u2021-05-27-0	Dear Parliament, The 25th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be Mr Attila Móring and Mr Bence Tordai for my help. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws in connection with the establishment of a cooperative of small children's families until closure. Presentation by Fidesz MEPs Lajos Kósa and Mónika Dunai T/16297. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-27-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is not the first time that I am the author of the creation of a form of cooperative society, and it is a great pleasure for me, as President of the National Cooperative Council, to help the cooperative movement, which may not be known in Hungary with Sándor Károlyi. At the end of the 20th century and in parallel with other European countries, a very strong cooperative system was built for World War II. For example, the Hangya Cooperative was as big as the economic power of Tesco of England at the time, which also grew out of a cooperative movement into a cooperative trade chain, but the communist takeover of power came in, and the communists' cooperative concept was nothing like anything else, only in his name he agreed with the original cooperative movement, and after a violent, terrorized, violent cooperative system, the cooperative movement was basically completely destroyed, held in his name, but it was destroyed, no volunteering, but democracy, no competition characterized the forms of cooperative. Then, after the change of regime, the leftovers of cooperatives, especially in relation to the abolition of agricultural cooperatives created by violence, actually lost their right to live, and how should I put it? the cooperative movement was characterised by organizations left or in some way escape from the communist ruins. At the same time, before the change of regime, a real Hungaricum was born and has flourished since then, a movement of school associations. This is a cooperative of a completely different nature than the former, based on basically personal participation. The essence of the school cooperatives is that students set up a cooperative, and perform personal participation in the cooperative, personal work in the contracts that the cooperative enters into as a business contract with the various employees, and is extremely flexible, the students organise the work themselves, decide the management themselves, decide themselves as a member of the cooperative on the basis of a one-vote principle, the business plan, the distribution of results, and today, we can safely say, this hungaricum booming success, 180 thousand students are members of some student cooperative, this is a national movement. In 2019, the last entire year before Covid, more than HUF 60 billion of orders were carried out, and the Hungarian economy was reported a highly flexible workforce, which, in addition, is already doing a kind of work socialization during the university years of the students. Perhaps this movement is also due to the fact that the unemployment figures of the 18-25-year-old population are much more favourable in Hungary than the EU average, the Hungarian data is half of the European average, but this is largely because almost all students have joined the student association at some point, because they can only work as a cooperative member, experience that there is a job, there is work, there is boss, there is order, there is discipline; however, self-regulatory, volunteering is the most important principle of the whole, and there is a high degree of flexibility, as students themselves assign how many hours can be completed, canceled, reorganized, there are topics responsible for each job. Almost everyone meets student workers and student work, by the way, it is enough to think that Hungarian cinemas are run by student associations; that is why from popcorn to ticket sales, everyone is apparently a young university student. This is because the company that owns the cinema plant enters into a business contract with student associations for the operation. In 2010, a long-term legislative work on student cooperatives began, the anomalies that led, for example, to the emergence of the Czechie phenomenon, to be eliminated. Parliament has introduced a mandatory minimum business fee for students when they work... This minimum business fee is laid down by the Government in a regulation, calculated in such a way that, in addition to the taxes payable, labour income cannot be less than the minimum wage. We have sorted out the anomalies that have arisen because the European Union does not have a cooperative directive, so it cannot interpret cooperative work when it means performance based on personal involvement and personal participation, because it is not about employees. Students who work there are also owners of the company's personal contribution, which is more similar to the forms known to the partnership, so, as appropriate, after the owners and the personal contribution they make, it is incomprehensible to use a number of regulations in the labour code from compulsory leave to compliance with the regulations specific to the management of human resources. But this has been resolved, although the EU has a rule on the angle of inclination of Polish cucumber once again, it does not have a rule on the cooperative movement. By the way, I note only in parentheses: roughly two and a half billion people in the world are members of some cooperative, so in this sense the world's most populous international movement, which covers almost every country in the world, the cooperative movement, and yet, strangely, in this worldwide movement, the school cooperative as such an absolute Hungaricum, does not exist anywhere else. By completing this regulatory work and excluding fraudsters in the cooperative movement, by means of regulatory means, see Czeglédy and his associates, there was an opportunity to open up the cooperative movement to people in a similar situation, once again on a strictly voluntary basis. This is what Parliament has done to my initiative in the case of pensioners' cooperatives. There are now more than 220 pensioners' cooperatives, more than HUF 10 billion in 2019, so that was their turnover and more than 20,000 members participated in this movement. [[9.10]] Today, this is wider; I refer to. 19 as data because cooperative work is extremely sensitive to economic activity, because it is also loved by employers or contracting parties because it is a highly flexible business contract. For example, if there is a decongression, then the business contract simply has to be terminated, there is no administrative obligation of any kind with the Labour Code from the mandatory announcement of group decommissioning up and down. I would add that employees, i.e. students or pensioners, love it because it is extremely flexible. There is no more flexible form of work in Hungary today. It's not just that part-time work can be done, it's completely individualized, someone says I can go an hour on Monday, I can't do it on Tuesday, two hours on Wednesday, and one on Friday, but these can also be exchanged. I'll give you just one example: Tesco stores sign three million hours of work each year with student associations, the Tesco chain of stores, but it's not important for the chain of stores to personally be there to do the work, but to have someone trained to do it. Of course, all rules on health and work must be respected, so those who work there are checked, trained, and it is very important that they work legally. Those who make personal contributions as members of the cooperative should only pay for them. No social security obligations are payable after the personal performance of the cooperative, since otherwise, those who are involved in this, are social groups which are already insured, students, pensioners. VAT and corporate income tax are payable. So in this sense, this is also beneficial for employers and beneficial for workers. These successes encouraged the idea of setting up maternity cooperatives as an opportunity. I can't stress it enough, I'll do it a few more times: the whole case is voluntary, it's just an opportunity, there's no pressure. Those who participate in it can get the benefits, and those who do not participate in it will not suffer any disadvantage. All benefits to the mothers, which the Fidesz government's family policy has put before Parliament and eventually embodied in the laws, go in the same form. It's just an opportunity to know that a lot of people who raise their children at home, let's put it that way, for the sake of simplicity, little mothers, but we know that in some cases it also covers or extend to men, but basically mothers, especially when the child is older, one and a half to two years old, would like to go back to work in part-time, in some very flexible framework. Only the Labour Code regulates this extremely rigidly, because employment under the Labour Code is also an obligation to work, so there is no way to say that I will not go in tomorrow, as opposed to working in a cooperative. Moreover, the employer has employers' obligations under the Labour Code. So typically, for mothers, this system is not very suitable. The maternity co-operative I have formulated does not carry these problems, so it does not eliminate them, but it does not. If someone joins a maternity co-operative as a mother, because it's regulated by the law that mothers can be members, they don't have to work, they're just members. They enter, a thousand forints from the member's contribution, just like I said, this is the main number in student associations, by the way. If someone steps out of the cooperative, it is completely voluntary, it cannot be limited to quitting, then he gets his membership contribution back, the thousand forints. So even that doesn't mean a commitment, it doesn't threaten that you can't pay your member's contribution. And if he comes in, he's either at work or he's not at work. Obviously, if you see a good opportunity, you will enter and work, if not, then... When your maternity status ceases, you will simply lose your cooperative status and get the thousand forints back. But one thing's for sure: he's in a community who's a member of the cooperative. The problems of the community are also his problems, a meeting of members, who should be the president, what should be the distribution of results, what should be the business plan, as in all cooperatives; because the cooperative is a very special form of enterprise, which is also a transition between an association and a company with capital interests, in the sense that, for example, cooperatives can establish, in proportion to their income, a so-called social or community fund, which the cooperative spends on its own members. There are great examples of this. I'll just say one thing. A pensioner cooperative in Veszprém spends part of its income totally tax-free by organizing such a senior university at the University of Veszprém and giving lectures on various topics from evolution to cosmology. They invite performers, pay them, and the participation of the cooperative member is, of course, free of charge. They are in the Community, talking about problems, and, by the way, they are using this opportunity to train themselves and to raise their awareness. There is no such obligation for a public limited company to establish a social or community fund for cooperatives. However, the cooperative is still a form of economic company, its fundamental function is to give its members the opportunity in accordance with the objectives of the cooperative. The extension of this cooperative to mothers should not be a problem for anyone. Participation, once again, is completely voluntary, an opportunity for mothers. If only a few co-operatives are set up to be created by mothers, we have already benefited, and they have benefited even more, although I confess, I expect that the maternity co-operative will be as successful as the retirement co-operative or the student co-operative. I was also surprised by the fact that no member of the opposition supported the proposal, so only the parties of the government voted for it. All kinds of nonsense were said in the debate, which only indicated that they did not understand at all the functioning of the cooperative movement, the functioning of cooperatives, and in many cases they do not even know the rules on them, because it is quite obvious that the criticism, for example, that the cooperative exploits its members, is completely nonsense, because the group of members determines the business, which contracts are concluded, who is the leader, what is the business plan, what is the profit distribution. So the members decide for themselves. At the general assembly of the cooperative, each member has only one vote. So exploitation doesn't work like it does for a company, so to speak, if there is exploitation between members at all, or between business owners, because it's not about capital power, it's not about the work done, it's not about the deposit or the size of the member's contribution, it's about the general principle of the cooperative that a member is a vote. We have to make a deal with the community. And if someone doesn't like that decision, then he's gonna step out of the cooperative, get his membership consent back, go to another one, or start another one for himself. It is typical that the wealth of these cooperatives is minimal, so there is no mention of it... Think about it, students are working, actually renting from the educational institution a place where the cooperative continues its work, but does not accumulate wealth, but simply distributes the money they produce to the members. That's how retirement cooperatives work, and that's probably how maternity cooperatives are gonna work. So there's no way I'm quitting the cooperative and leaving the vast wealth that I've accumulated. It's incomprehensible. These cooperatives are set up not to become wealthy, but to have revenue for the work they do, which is distributed among members, in general in proportion to the work they do. So no criticism based on the obligation can be interpreted, because it is voluntary. I don't know how to interpret exploitation at all. I think that I can absolutely convince the governing parties to support this proposal, along with my fellow rapporteur, Mónika Dunai, so that the two of us tabled it, and Róbert Zsigó still joined, but for some reason the Speaker did not read his name, but I understand that he also joined the proposal, not least indicating as Deputy Minister that his wallet was supporting this proposal. I think we can convince the ruling parties, and I will be vigilant in the criticisms of the opposition. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[9.20]]
u2021-05-27-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Kósa. I would like to ask you to speak on behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government supports any initiative that improves the situation of Hungarian families and Hungarian mothers. So we look forward to the debate in Parliament and hope that a positive result will be achieved. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-27-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, who, alongside Lajos Kósa, is the author of the bill, as I have indicated. We are listening to the speech by the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-05-27-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I am in a special position during the debate of this law, because, as my fellow Member Lajos Kósa said, I can also be a fellow author of the law and at the same time interpret the opinion of the Fidesz Group to the House, and I will draw up a supportive opinion. Lajos Kósa, as rapporteur, has also asked the factions to support this proposal, so I already assure the House that the Fidesz Group is in favour of this initiative, because it is very, very important that we support the proposals that form part of our family policy and enrich it, all the proposals that can offer families, children's children. Fidesz-KDNP's family policy provides a stable basis for Hungary to emerge from the economic downturn caused by the Crown Virus pandemic. Because the family is the highest value, in this situation, the assistance tailored to the individual situation, as well as the support of childbearing and child rearing, can serve our country's goals in substance. The Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association is therefore committed to encouraging children during and after the coronal virus epidemic, supporting families raising children and improving their quality of life. We help create and renovate our own home, recognise the extra efforts of families and help the flexible work of small children in many ways. This bill also serves this purpose, that is to give parents at home with a small child the opportunity to participate in employment within a flexible framework, with personal involvement, in coordination with the child's education and care, and to benefit from the social and cultural benefits of their free will, on the basis of their free choice, on the basis of free working arrangements. The form of cooperative is a social enterprise of a kind capable of providing its members with versatile benefits in terms of its traditions, specificities and proven results. This was also demonstrated by the pensioner's cooperative, and this was also the basis of the functioning of the student cooperatives, the school cooperatives. Each member in the cooperative has one vote on the basis of the principle of a member, one vote, the membership relationship is flexible, there is no pressure to work, the members decide on their personal contribution autonomously, agreeing with the cooperative. Members shall receive income and benefit from the services of the cooperative in proportion to their contribution, and may benefit from the form of cooperative. It is also important, ladies and gentlemen, that the cooperative does not have an employment obligation, as Lajos Kósa pointed out in his expozee. The cooperative is able to provide market participants with a continuous, flexible, professional service that meets their needs, in order to also carry out the administrative tasks associated with employment. In view of this, the regulation focuses on the form of cooperative. That's what the bill just submitted is about. A co-operative with small children will be a special cooperative that will provide those affected with flexible employment and income opportunities in a protected framework compatible with child rearing and childcare. Moreover, it is not negligible that cooperatives create a community. It also allows members to keep up-to-date and exploit their existing knowledge and experience and to develop them. In addition, the association of those at home with small children gives members a platform for information, knowledge, experience or exchange, transfer and training and care of young children. The regulation thus contributes to encouraging childbearing and further positive developments in demographic trends [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sure!]] to strengthen social cohesion. The regulation has a public interest in terms of its objectives, and therefore it is also of public benefit. The actuality of the new type of cooperative exists today, given that, as a result of the family support measures provided by the government and the family protection action plan, the number of children to be born is increasing, and we are confident that this is our belief and belief, which will increase in the future as a result of these measures. For families with more than one child, especially for three or more children, the participation of mothers in employment can be further supported by this new type of cooperative by providing them with more flexible conditions than labour law barriers, and the content, manner and extent of their work can be decided by those involved in the family themselves. In addition to flexible employment, members also have the opportunity to develop themselves and acquire special knowledge, facilitating the education and care of children. The group concerned may voluntarily decide to enter the cooperative. As a result of the main characteristic of the cooperative form, the personal contribution is compulsory, and the financial contribution, which, as Lajos Kósa mentioned, is equivalent to the amount voted jointly and severally by the members, and can be considered to be of a symbolic magnitude. The flexibility of the form of cooperative also includes the fact that the details of the personal contribution will be recorded in an agreement between the member and the cooperative. The cooperative member receives a proportional income on the basis of his/her personal contribution, and the persons concerned are entitled to various benefits and benefits during their employment. For example, you do not have to pay a social contribution tax, you do not have to pay a vocational training contribution, you only have to pay it, so it is very beneficial for the employees. The new type of cooperative will be able to adapt to the development of current labour market conditions and thus help to further stimulate the economy. As a rapporteur, and as I said, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, I would also like to inform this House that we are very much in favour of the proposed bill. I would like to add one more amendment to my colleague Lajos Kósa's exposé. In the name of the law, too, we are talking about a cooperative of small children at home, that is to say, if we are talking in the common language about a maternity cooperative, it is a fitting and very good term, but let us not forget that there are very little, but there are also fathers at home. This means that, of course, they can benefit from these advantages if the criteria laid down in the law exist. Thank you very much for your attention and for a good debate. We're waiting for suggestions. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-27-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. As I recall, Lajos Kósa indicated in his speech that there were also little fathers. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. You have the floor, Congressman. [[9.30]]
u2021-05-27-7	Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member, the good debate will be held, as I see countless statements made that can be debated, but I am quite certain that the position of the other side must also be known so that we can talk about objective truths. With the package in front of us, Fidesz-KDNP has dusted down a three-year plan and is not doing so on a subject. Yesterday, for example, he brought here a refresher of the incredibly failing private institution, in front of the House, with which 25-40 thousand injured were promised assistance, which, unfortunately, resulted in 300-something at the end. So they're trying to update an amazing professional thing. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 5,000!]] I would like to point out to my fellow Member that more than 2,000 private bankruptcies have been launched. You're looking at the number of closed ones at a time like this, Member. Look at you, too. We are talking about three hundred cases closed, so many victims were able to escape with the help of their very strict and almost slave-riding system. I'm pretty sure you could've done better. Elections are coming up, 11 months to go. Now they're dusting off an earlier idea, and I'm a little concerned with the feeling I felt when you fooled the Prime Minister of Hungary. The Prime Minister stood up a few years ago and quite rightly said that the Government of Hungary intends to introduce a complete ban on mothers with three children. I welcomed this idea and initiative, because I felt that this proposal would bring a significant relief to a very wide range of society. Then their background figures calculated how much it would cost, got scared, failed the Prime Minister of Hungary with you, by the way, and the final proposal became free of four children, because you calculated that all this affected slightly more than 30,000 Hungarian women, half of whom are already inactive on the labour market anyway. From now on, it is the tax revenue of between 15,000 and a few thousand people that would have fallen, so with a minimal budget expenditure, my fellow Member from the Danube can stand up and say what does not stand the test of the truth that demographic trends are improving in Hungary. We're about to prove why you're wrong again, Congresswoman. Obviously, it's not your fault. It's your bosses, your employers. This is the communication panel line being published, because in the opinion bubble, you need it to stabilize one and a half million people, but it's still a lie. Dusting off a three-year plan could otherwise be a good thing. I'm a big fan of the cooperative. I wrote one of my papers earlier in the Ant, and I have a semi-finished book on the subject, so you can't accuse me of having any anti-cooperative feelings or feelings of life, not at all. I'm a huge supporter of this. I just see again that this proposal is about the family model Fidesz imagined, typically targeting the three - child or the multi - child type, and not talking about those who have missed out on the family model Fidesz imagined. There's no social message for them. I have a serious problem with lifelikeness, my fellow Member. There are many of us here in families with small children, and our daily lives are filled with this. It's so hard for me to imagine that little moms go to members' meetings and have an opinion on a business plan. So when these are worked out, talk to practicing people who do this incredibly valuable, invisible work every day. I am glad, by the way, that in the last ten years, the value of the invisible work done by the ladies has been included in the public address, which is now measured on a GDP basis according to the profession and measured internationally. I would very much like to acknowledge this amazing service to the ladies in the long term, because if there is reproduction in Hungary, it will be because of them, thanks to their work. I feel in the context of the proposal for a mother-cooperative, that you would outsource an external cooperative to a state task that you have failed to accomplish in the last ten years. So what I see is that they would get rid of a task, and they would leave it to a working or non-functioning model, which, by the way, would be your job today, yesterday, and tomorrow, and it has not been implemented. To give an example, they constantly tolerate the disadvantage that Hungarian women with children have in terms of salaries, career careers and careers, as they know very well that if they stay home for years to raise small or small ones, they will have such an irretrievable disadvantage on the labour market, on the level of salaries, in terms of career opportunities that are shown in terms of men's and women's wages. The European average is 14 per cent wage difference between men and women, and in Hungary this indicator is above 18 per cent. The reason I don't understand you is that yesterday, a government secretary of state came to us on the Enterprise Development Committee and admitted that this problem existed in a perfectly understandable, professional manner. I'm not saying that we agreed on every detail because we didn't fucking agree, but they admitted that there was a problem, that they could handle it, and that you didn't handle it, and that you came here with a proposal like this that scratches the shell of the apple, but it doesn't go to the deep end of the problem at all. What we see is that it is always a little suspicious when my fellow Member Kósa and his fellow Member so insists on volunteering. I don't know, anyone would have thought that this might not be a voluntary form. I'm very glad that, by the way, but I'm going to say this once again, the image of the young mothers attending the meeting and bugging the business plan makes me feel very strange, it certainly doesn't give me the appearance of lifelikeness. The biggest emotion is when, in the explanatory statement of the proposal, it reads that the number of children to be born is increasing and is expected to increase in the future. This was also said by my fellow Member of the Danube after a year in which Hungary faced the second worst demographic data of 120 years, a rapidly declining country, and this was not only caused by the very unfortunate rise in the number of deaths due to the crisis with the corona virus, but if you have examined the latest data, you will see that, compared to last year, there is a regrettable, very marked decline in the number of live births again, looking at the data from month to month. Last year, the population of Nagykanizsa became less, in December, when you were campaigning for this, we were unfortunately less Hungarians, who were the people of Siklós. When the congresswoman tells us that the number of children to be born is increasing, let's see: 93 thousand Hungarian children were born in 2016. Last year, when you were talking about a big upswing, you couldn't reach 92 233, so you couldn't even reach the 2016 value, which, by the way, is technically justified. So the demographer profession claims that staying on the level would also be a huge, explosive result. This is what you should be honest about: Hungary will be a country of six and a half million in a few decades from now, based on the number of living births you are assisting with, with your slightly disabled family support system. Numbers are stubborn things. This is a profession, fellow Members. The numbers show that we're going to be six and a half million countries. You and András Bencsik can be lied here in the Democratic editorial that we are already among the growing nations. I wish that were true, fellow Members. But lying can't be a problem in its deep layers. I see, Congresswoman, that you should argue with the numbers, stand up and explain that if 93,000 children were born in 2016 and 92,000 children were all born last year, then what kind of improvement are you talking about? The demographic profession is familiar with the small movements of which two have been in the last 11 years. Two! When a positive demog-rafian message comes to the families, there is a temporary leap in the number of births, and that is correct, because once after the announcement of the baby shower, there was a year-long two thousand increase in birth, the following year, unfortunately, the curve slipped back, and the last time there was a discount for families, a one-year leap in the baby shower, and then the brutal fall in birth numbers again. We're not gonna argue that there were two little jumps. These are good things, and the opposition agrees that these are important goals and needs, but do not lie about the whole system. Unfortunately, we are a dwindling nation with falling demographic trends, and we would have a joint responsibility to stop this in 20-30 years, and at least to stay on the level. I can't do this with lies. If, on the other hand, I often accuse you of living up to the future, and even this could fit into this proposal right now, they're doing a cosmetic experiment to see if this works, and then help some mothers, help them, that's totally fine, that's fine. At the same time, they tolerate the amazing, humiliatingly low wage level in Hungary, the housing cataclysm, instead of building a mass of apartments for young families in the last ten years. [[9.40]] They are about to throw away the remaining national assets and we see that they are reviving the opportunities that should be broadened for young Hungarians. During the emergency of the disease, we have presented numerous proposals for children with small children: we wanted to grant a supplementary leave for those who are more difficult to stay at home with the child, and we wanted to make up for their loss of wages. So it's possible that they've caused multiple more damage to these families than they're doing here a weak attempt to patch it up. The 27 percent EU record-breaking VAT. We are often criticized for not supporting your family ideas, and in some cases that is true. I find it difficult to support the fact that ten million of the allowances for families are put in the pocket with a ministerial salary in the form of grants, and that the Hungarian young people in real need have to settle for a preferential bank loan; I really cannot support this injustice. But I can certainly see that the 27 percent VAT on child-rearing articles, this unprecedented criminal tax in Europe, is a demographic atomic bomb. So you are brutally overloading families with such incomprehensible costs, and on the other hand you are trying to say that, my friends, you can work more easily, here you go. Look at the scales of the two. The weak forint, the 27 percent VAT, the tolerance of housing cataclysms result in tens of thousands of forints being taken out of each family's pocket, or allowed to be flooded every month. In fact, the agenda of the day fits the curve of the future, as we do not have to talk here this afternoon about putting young Hungarians or Hungarian university students in a position and broadening their opportunities. You think very differently about the Hungarian future: you bring here a Chinese university with megacredit, with Chinese credit from the Hungarian taxpayers' money, mostly to the place of the Hungarian student city, taking advantage of the opportunities for young Hungarians to live. Commissioner Nacsa saw that the plans were about college fees above HUF 50,000 for Fudan, while in addition to a proper Hungarian university, we said to the 15 thousand that should be considered. The fact is that you are the government of the future, and you are able to live up to the rental program in order for some minions in the Castle of Buda to gain eternal rights or to acquire ownership of the rental rights acquired under strange circumstances. So I'm going to get you to think of each of the 300,000 parents with children, and not necessarily captivating them to go to meetings and do business plans, save the state a mandatory task, which is to promote the climate of flexible jobs. This does not mean controlling orders, it does not have to be said in the market that you tell us that, one way or another, we need to create a climate, for example, with state resources that employers can use to develop flexible employment opportunities. There hasn't been an experiment in 11 years. Now they're bringing in a cooperative idea, which I'm assuming is not going to be successful in the next 11 months, but I can see that the basic problem is not being dealt with, and it's as if they're unaware of various genre encounters. So when, for example, more than 100,000 of our public service fellow citizens are being parked and stopped, for example, I have to tell you that we are talking about workers with small children in many cases, so that part of the income of the small children mentioned here is being parked and sabotaged, even when they propose a wage increase that is only compensation, because it is not included in the basic wage, so it cannot be taken into account in the next wage increases. Once they do not make up for lost wages, they again take the income away from families raising young children and reduce their life opportunities. When a rental program is not implemented, again, it is through brutal housing costs that the life opportunities of those raising children are reduced, and when 27 percent of VAT is tolerated in child rearing articles, from diapers to baby bottles, we have to say again that they are limiting life opportunities for the future. So I would like to conclude that, in addition to their well-meaning proposals, they are trying to see and manage this area in a system, and do not take any more resources away from the Hungarian families, and do not tolerate the unfair system which, I say once again, provides ten million-million-dollar support, and the average Hungarian youth with a reduced loan, only in good times; it should be the other way around. Thank you for your attention. [[Lajos Korózs applauds.]]
u2021-05-27-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-05-27-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues who tabled it! Since the family-friendly turn of 2010, Hungary has been pursuing a policy of Christian Democrat, pro-life, pro-family and child-bearing support. This line fits the current proposal, obviously not with the same weight as, say, a family protection action plan or various large family support packages that we have been negotiating here in recent years. The reason why Dániel Z. Kárpát has given us more professional demographic contributions is because without any reference basis, he takes out two figures on how many children were born at that time, when he knows that the situation, number, fertility rate of women of childbearing age [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Then you don't have to lie!]] There are many indicators that nuance the image and contribute to the accurate statistical picture. If two numbers were to be said, I could also say that Jobbik received one million list votes in 2018, and 220 thousand in 2019, and we should judge the party's support on this basis, that it is the fourth strongest opposition party. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What is the support of KDNP? The president's ringing the bell.]] You know that this is how it nuances the picture, and if you just take two numbers, it doesn't necessarily reflect the full reality. However, I would like to say, honourable Member, that you are always accusing us of writing huge victory reports, and we are talking about a trend turn in terms of population policy. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Not you, only the others!]] And I'm accusing you of not admitting the partial results we've achieved. It does not recognise the 24 percent increase in childbearing in Hungary over the last 11 years, which is the highest figure in the European Union. Childbearing in Hungary has increased by 24 percent! We are far from where we want to be, we are far from satisfied with this number, but this is the best data in the European Union. This only means that the situation is worse in other countries, and they are also struggling with demographic issues, which means that we have done a little better than these countries. I think this is a cause for joy, but there is no reason for us to sit back or put forward new proposals, no new ideas, and no further support for childbearing, the birth of the desired children, or even the various family support schemes. It is clear from this, my fellow Member, that last week we discussed the budget here, that the last budget submitted by the Korózs Lajos in 2010 was spending HUF 960 billion on families, and now we are going to reach HUF 2773 billion, and we have tripled the amount spent on families in 11 years. You have rated families as a third of what we would like to spend on families next year's budget. In the context of the current bill, there is a very important, sensitive topic: work and childbearing, work and child rearing, work and private life balance, and, to say the least, I think we all know this phenomenon. We can recall that it was this government who, with the extra introduction of the ged, created the possibility which, I can tell you, did not have before that, besides working, the benefits for children were given to the mother or father, because it was the socialist's family policy that if someone went back to work, they immediately deprived him of the allowance, the child-rearing allowance. This was the ged extra that Zita Gurmai said in an interview that they would wipe out immediately if they were on the government. This is the position of the Socialists and DK, we understand that, but I also think that this step has helped to create a balance between work and private life, and if you want to go back to work with your child, you can do so. This has been helped by the largest cradle development program in recent decades, which has been helped by a program that has built a cradle in many places in the country, renovated and expanded a nursery. I think that has contributed to the fact that anyone who wants to, and thinks that he would go back to work with his child, work alongside raising children, can do so as easily as possible. Our aim is to support this, to ensure freedom of choice for all, and not to report poverty, as it was almost automatically reported during the left-wing government. What I cannot accept in your speech in Demagog is that you are trying to base political capital on human envy, so that certain people can benefit from CSOK support, and that some people should not be able to benefit from CSOK support. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Woe!]] [[9.50]] You know very well that it is not the income situation that depends on the various home creation grants, baby shower support or other such subsidies, since most of these loan or support schemes are the guarantors of the State. So it doesn't depend on the income situation. But if it bothers you that whatever people in position are using family support, then I'm guessing you're all gonna pay back the family tax relief or whatever else you're getting. I think that this would not be right, but if you wanted to remain true to your speech, this would be the chosen way. The congressman also talked about the narrowing down. It is the family tax relief that reaches the highest percentage of those affected. Anyone who can use it can benefit from a family tax benefit, and 98 percent of those who can use it will use it. This family tax relief is such a broad support element that more than a thousand billion forints have been left for families raising children since the introduction of the system. You do remember that this is the system that the socialists abolished, the family tax relief system, when, by the way, they reduced the duration of the child and children when taxes were raised, and by a pen stroke, they abolished the home creation programmes or the interest-supported housing loans. [[Zoltán Varga's intervention:]] Thank you, Congressman, the helmet stayed at home. This was the system, ladies and gentlemen, when the entire home creation programme was pulled out by the socialists with a pen. Ferenc Gyurcsány's policy was to make the Hungarian families pay for the consequences of the crisis. Klára Dobrev recently said that the banks were saved, not the people. Of course, because you didn't want to save people at the time, that's why you put restrictions and tax increases on the burden of the crisis on Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. And not only could we not have talked about such proposals, but it did not even occur to us to expand the funds in some way, to give families raising children, to mothers raising children, and to fathers, in some way, ways, how they could possibly, if they wanted to, take up a job. You have simply driven families with children into poverty. In essence, apart from your chosen political layer, the commitment of the second child was synonymous with poverty for everyone. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that after your anti-family policy, they come here with such hypocritical proposals. Then we didn't hear that Lajos Korózs, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély or Zoltán Varga stood up so that they wouldn't stop the family tax reduction, stop the home creation programs, reduce the duration of the child and the child, and don't cut the sick money by 10 percent. Because these were also you, fellow Members, in the middle of the crisis. We've gone to 12 percent unemployment because you left hundreds of thousands on the side of the road. And when there is a proposal here to help families raising children, and there have been numerous proposals in recent years, then you have not supported families raising children, you have not pressed a button in order to improve their situation, to help them to take up work, to receive sufficient support for their child rearing. You all said no to that. I think it is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that I say this once again in the triple-enlarged family support system, 2010: 960 billion, 2022: 2777 billion of you have repeatedly said no to these enlargements. I don't think this is the right policy. It is their soul that you are still pursuing an anti-family policy, 12 years after your failed government. Then they could have learned from the fact that it is not worth politicalizing against Hungarian families, but you are putting it on their flag right now. We will, of course, support this bill and anything that intelligently helps Hungarian families raising children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2021-05-27-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I have tried to listen to the speeches of pro-government politicians, especially Lajos Kósa, as rapporteur, to understand what we are about to talk about here. I can see why Lajos Kósa has told me several times, hoping that he can convince the government that this initiative should be supported, because the three of them spoke and did not speak a half minute about the law itself. We have not found out why these social cooperatives will be set up and why this will be good for mothers or fathers who have three and more children. Let me tell my fellow Member Nacsa that employers in Hungary are only rushing for mothers with three and more children in the labour market. That's the characteristic of Hungary today, isn't it? And you have done a great deal to make it not so, let's be honest. I'd like to bring up an amendment to the Labour Code as just one example. But if we have heard almost nothing about the law itself from the government side and from the Fideszes-KDNP side, then let me say a few things about what is in this law. It is not clear how the cooperative intends to meet the knowledge development and education requirements of its members at the same time, the transfer of knowledge and knowledge related to the care, training of young children, exchange of experience, the stated needs, and the expectation that members will work with a third party through personal involvement. Reconciliating these expectations seems to be a major challenge. It is not clear why such a presentation is made in the case of a child's educator, such as: if the performance of the job exceeds 6 hours per day, 20 per day, if it exceeds 9 hours per day, an additional 25 minutes per day of work should be granted. Or: for a member of a cooperative with a small child, if he carries out his duties on two consecutive days, a minimum rest period of 11 hours between the completion of the day's work and the start of the next day's work shall be provided. I would like to ask my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, to tell me why a mother who has three or more children has to work 9 hours a day alongside raising children and household and everything. Is this one of the principles of Christian-Citizen values? We do not understand why this 9-hour period is included in this proposal at all. It is not clear what the government's goal is for children or children. So far, the government has communicated that the parent stays at home for the longest time after the birth of his child and does not go back to the labour market. This bill envisages the opposite. By taking on work organisation tasks and providing tax incentives, it encourages young children to return to the labour market as soon as possible. Do our pro-government politicians remember the period before 2010 when they keep talking about it? Well, you were the greatest leaders in ensuring that the Socialist Government did not provide flexible working conditions to return to the labour market before the child was three years old. You were the loudest ones before 2010 so that the mothers would stay at home, raise the child until they were three years old, or if they were raising three children, they wouldn't go back. Now here's an amendment about the exact opposite. It is not clear what is really the legislative intention with this bill. The bill may even be a clear confession to the failure of the government's series of family support measures and its family protection action plan. I repeat, among my first sentences, that employers in Hungary today are rushing for mothers with three and more children, otherwise that is not the case. We do not even know why a bill concerning such families was not submitted by Minister Katalin Novak without a wallet. Although we know that Lajos Kósa is very attracted to cooperatives, and I think he already has what he wants from them. We have seen from pro-government politicians in recent years how cooperative forms could be used for their own benefit. It is not clear how members will receive the revenue allocated to members. According to the law, the food voucher can be granted free of charge to members, but at the same time a service fee must be paid for the services provided by the cooperative. If a person works as a member of the work undertaken by the cooperative but uses the services of the cooperative, it will be deducted from the amount which he has requested, but if he would also receive money from the turnover, he may receive it in the form of a food voucher. [[10.00]] It is not clear how members will have access to new knowledge and knowledge material for the care and training of young children. It is also possible that the former EU money-operated baby-mama club is being taken over by the cooperative. In these sessions there were professionals, such as women in charge, who were able to provide relevant answers to young children's questions. The big question is what the fund for knowledge development and education organised and operated by the cooperative can actually be used for. There are no rules laid down in this proposal. It is a very big question whether, with these forms of cooperatives, they want to take over the role of the protective service, or they want to transfer the tasks of social professionals, crèches or kindergartens to the cooperative form. There are simply no specifics in the bill. Social cooperatives create a specific organisational framework for self-employment among atypical forms of employment, so that workers in disadvantaged and/or disadvantaged areas can have as long as possible permanent employment opportunities. On the basis of the foregoing, the authors claim that parents with children who have more than one child are disadvantaged in the world of work and that they should be helped by all means to get back to the labour market as quickly as possible and preferably in accordance with the needs of their families. They finally admit the disadvantage of mothers with three and more children in the labour market today in Hungary. And I am sorry that my fellow Member from KDNP is not here, because, yes, one of the greatest poverty risks in Hungary today is having children. Let us not talk about accepting the birth of the third or fourth child. Social cooperatives are just a few thoughts about what we have seen in recent years. Allow me to bring up two cases. One is the ETUSZ case, where several billion forints were lost by entrepreneurs linked to pro-government politicians, damaging more than 3,000 disadvantaged workers. And we can't forget about Flórian Farkas, either, about the Bridge in the world of work. The investigation launched in 2015 revealed that HUF 1.6 billion had been damaged by the Hungarian people, the budget; and by the way, we know from the news that since 2015 Florian Farkas had not been heard or earned the role he had played in this matter at all. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oops!]] The other is the story of Mengyi Roland, and let's not forget him, because at least he's resting in the right place and trying to serve the punishment he's committed. He also made billions disappear from the budget by creating social cooperatives, so to speak, with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. So there are a lot of questions about this bill. Dear fellow members of the Government, we understand that you are coming in here, you are telling us how much family policy has worked in recent years, and you have done everything you can to ensure that every family can exist and live in such a way that it does not have a problem, only that is not the reality, it is not that. And my fellow Member from KDNP may pick up two numbers and say it here in Parliament, but the Fidesz-KDNP's family policy is not a positive one. And I agree with Daniel Z. Carpathian that this kind of minimal improvement is temporary, look at what will happen in the coming years. We are very happy for every child who is born in Hungary, but unfortunately this process cannot be stopped in a short time. You have done everything in the last 11 years to ensure that these indicators are not drastically improved. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-27-12	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2021-05-27-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is right that it is not good for anyone to take two numbers. And it's a disaster if these two numbers don't cover reality. Mr Olivér Nacsa Minister for Government [[Intercoms: Lawrence! Gyula Molnár intervenes.]] Oliver is the other one, funnier, banging his breasts to what extent the number of births is increasing. I quickly looked up the numbers on the related side of the KSH, in 2010 90 335 and in 2019 89 193. There's nothing to suggest what Congressman Nacha said to him yesterday. Either get to know the numbers properly or learn to lie. But if you can't do either, there's a problem. I can see that all the comments, especially on the pro-government side, are rather distraught, so allow me a little detour before I talk about the form of a cooperative. I am delighted to be in Parliament with Lajos Kósa; if nothing else, you and I know that Debrecen is a tough neighborhood, we must be born there. I haven't had a chance to respond to the pro-government madness that's taking place here in the language exams, not in the language exams, so let me have a little story, and then I'll get to what I have to say. Lajos Kósa traveled to Dubai for two weeks with local government money in the 2010s alone, allegedly to bring Arab investors into the city. As far as I know, it's not very good either at Arabic or English skill levels, but Congressman says he's made a very good deal. I must add that I, we know very well, left the General Assembly in Debrecen less than a year ago, and I have not seen Arab investors since. But I would point out that the fact that Lajos Kósa was able to do what he practically spent two weeks in Dubai without language knowledge doesn't mean that what you're talking about is actually the most important question. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But to move on to the cooperative model: it is not from the devil nor from the form of the cooperative. In fact, we consider it a very good thing. But I don't think that being a cooperative can trigger a normal family policy. 'Cause let's not forget that what we're seeing here is practically a wooden iron ring, Congressman, while you're trying to make some kind of patriarchal family model in the past, where the mother stays at home and raise a child, the father earns money, the cooperative model tries to steer your work-based society in some way. We know very well that the amount of family allowance under your administration has not changed. We also know very well that workers' poverty is something hellish. And we also know very well that that humiliating, insane, average pension increase of less than 900 forints, which you just threw away to the pensioners, is not enough for anything. Congressman, you were the one who forced the pensioners' cooperatives while we saw that most of the pensioners are living in incredible poverty, and you are not going to work in a cooperative because you don't want to or because you're having such a good time at home, but because your health simply doesn't allow it. [[10.10]] Of course, it is possible to say nice, soundy words here and to give loud speeches about how important this is and how community-building it is, because I have to add that this must be one of the important criteria of cooperatives, even for pensioners or for mothers, because we know from both social groups that loneliness, being locked up for days alone or with a tiny baby, is the hotbed of depression. And for example, one of the leading segments of retirement causes is that these people are lonely, but unfortunately they do not have their health. So what we're talking about is the form of a cooperative, it's a welcome thing. The way you want to achieve this is less so. And of course, you can talk about how everyone has one vote, and there's no such thing as exploiting the people working in the cooperative, that's right. But we know very well that in parliamentary or municipal elections, everyone has one vote. But what we do see is that we are able to abuse these one-voted votes for you, honourable pro-government representatives. What you are saying, Mr Lajos Kósa, is that 220 retired cooperatives are now operating, and on the basis of a third quarter of 2019 data, they also fail to hold their ground. We know very well that 151 retirement cooperatives have been established, and now, in principle, 117 of them are operating, so it wouldn't be a problem if this worked out. But the problem is that it doesn't work very well, it doesn't really work, because it was also a promising part of pensioners' cooperatives, because pensioners got into it because they received a tax reduction, but since it collapsed, the possibility and extent of this tax relief has vanished, unfortunately, since the rate of pensioners' cooperatives has been decreasing. And obviously, by creating now or creating maternity unions, it cannot be saved, otherwise it cannot be replaced by normal family policy. We should increase the family allowance, and you have to understand that. People's poverty should be eliminated. You don't have to spell with the KSH numbers, you don't have to prove to people that they live better on billboards. Well, that's what everyone feels for themselves. People live the way they feel. People live the way they can fill the basket on the market, and right now, right now, pensioners can't fill the basket on the market, and it's mostly due to your policy. The fact that inflation is running, and you simply leave these people on the trenches, not just with a pair of feet in the trenches, and then you try to prove to them that: but, otherwise, how well they live. Well, they don't live well. And it has to be noted that, obviously, if you want to go to work, you should go to work, but you should get the family allowance so that your work is not a mandatory necessity for them, but an optional option. If they think they need to go to a community because they can't stand being locked up anymore, or they want to do something else next to the baby, then do it, but don't make it a mandatory pressure press for the economy that says they have to go. Congressman, you told me about Czeglédy Csaba. I was waiting for him to talk about it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Criminal!]] There are a lot of criminals in your benches, and I would ask you, not to use the word "criminal," not even because we know almost every aspect of the bell court, and we also know, dear Lajos Kósa, that lightning is very close to you, and sooner or later there must be an explanation for a lot of things. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]]
u2021-05-27-14	Congressman...
u2021-05-27-15	I hope you'll do that. But back to what Congressman Kósa said, he's on very thin ice. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] because we can see that you and the political and economic circles associated with you simply wanted to get a market in cooperative life. That's probably a success. How profitable this will be is another question. But the fact that someone is being called a criminal, even though they have no right to do so, I believe that this is largely an indication of your relationship with morale. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Convicted...]] The point, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is that respect should be the foundation between society and you. Appreciate young people; appreciate the people who work, but cannot get from five to six. And I want you to appreciate the pensioners we can't see that from you right now. And once again, the form of the cooperative is not from the devil, it is acceptable, but it cannot replace it with a normal family policy, and it has not succeeded. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-16	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. With all due respect, I would like to ask the Member, because of his different sentences, that he will have the right to rise up in order of business, Lajos Kósa, I tried to stop him, but at the same time he changed to the bill, and then he began to become personal again. That's why I'm asking you to refrain from doing so in the future. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa.
u2021-05-27-17	Mr. President. Dear House, I would just like to state a few facts about my fellow Member Varga's comments. Zoltán Varga is lying. He lied many times in his short speech: I have never been to Dubai for two weeks. I've never been to Dubai on the city council's money, ever! So you're lying, you dirty liar, my dear fellow Member. On the other hand, in English I attended countless trials, last time I helped the MotoGP process when signing the international agreement with Donna. My English isn't perfect, but I can handle it. It is a vile lie and slander that any of my fellow politicians in cooperatives want to profit. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: What is the point of order? Zoltán Varga: Is this the order of business? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Zoltán Varga has mixed up concepts, because the fact that I am running an unpaid management position of a social organization in order to help the cooperative movement is not profiteering. I've never received a penny from any cooperative, not from my position, and I don't want it. It's the same with all my co-operative representative associations. Whatever their political opinion, there are left-wing people who are not like you, so there are really left-wing people, there are people in the middle and on the right, but no one is taking advantage of the various positions of the cooperative movement in the interests of society or in the interests of society, and it does not want to make a profit or draw any of this. One more misunderstanding: obviously, concepts are difficult, but pensioners don't get any tax benefits, because that's not what they're talking about. When a person is a member of a pensioner-cooperative, but this is true of the school cooperative and will also be true of the maternity co-operative, he makes personal contributions, so there is no need to pay social security and other contributions after this performance, but that is not a tax reduction. The cooperative must pay both corporate tax and VAT. I reject the slanders Zoltán Varga has given me, but I'm not surprised, it's mandatory to lie to a Gyurcsányist, obviously. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-27-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Kósa. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2021-05-27-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, As a representative of Jobbik, I would like to respond to the voice of Lőrinc Nacsa. We have not just highlighted two numbers, my fellow Member. I'd like to warn you that demog-raphia is a profession that you can do or can't do. The fact is that all countries in the region have achieved the same 20-percent increase in fertility rates, all of them! [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Since the cursed time of the Bokros package, in all former socialist countries in the region, fertility rates have run down to 1.1-1,2- and, without exception, increased in each of them by a decade later, about 1.5-1.6. [[10.20]] In essence, you had little to do with this historic process. If you look at the countries in the region, one half of them still have a higher fertility rate than Hungary's, and, of course, find one or two of them that are lower. Again, it's a profession. You're acting like you're looking up the uplifting section of an EKG curve, cutting it out and posting it on Facebook, but that doesn't make it right. According to the number of Hungarian live births, Hungary will become a country of 6.5 million in a few decades. Stop lying, all of you! Finish your onionous fever dreams about Hungary's psychic growth, face reality, help all Hungarian families who have children at last! The production report lies that have been going on here for years are not only unprofessional, but infinitely irritating, outrageous. I would like to remind you that Hungary has produced the second worst demographic balance in the last 120 years. So stop lying.
u2021-05-27-20	Thank you, Dániel Z. Carpathian. The next two-minute comment is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP.
u2021-05-27-21	Thank you, Mr. President. I would say to Congressman Varga that the criminals who have been convicted of criminal offences are Csaba Czeglédy. I'm not talking about your current case. Csaba Cseglédy, the court ruled that he could be called a convicted tax criminal because he's a tax criminal. You may not have been informed of this at the Small House, honourable Member, nor have you informed the mayors who, at the time of the emergency, took advantage of the single decision making, filled Csaba Czeglédy with various orders of tens of millions forints. Csaba Czegledy is a criminal. You don't call us criminals, because we don't have a convicted criminal case, we don't have an ongoing criminal case, but he's been convicted. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Voldemort!]] So if you want to call someone a criminal, you should look around your own party and not lecture us on it, because you can call him a criminal, who the court said was a criminal. Czeglédy said it about Csaba, it's that simple. I would call Mr Z. Carpathian as my fellow Member, yes, the countries in the region have all produced twenty-some percent, none of which have reached 24 percent, just us. That's what I'm saying, it's the highest figure. It's as simple as that. I didn't say that we were driving high, I didn't say that this was the best result in the world, I said that in the European Union there was no 24 percent, only Hungary. I think that's good news. If that's bad news for you, then I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Other speeches will follow. Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP!
u2021-05-27-23	Thank you. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased that this initiative has come before the House, and here many people have started their comments by saying that they are generally fond of cooperative movements, and that even as rapporteur Mr Kósa said that there were very serious traditions, sales cooperatives and agricultural cooperatives in Hungary. I would like to stress that I particularly like this form of society. For a very long time, for decades, our family lived in such an organizational structure, even in a leading position. And it should be mentioned not only the cooperative movement of socialism, but also in the developed West, there are very serious cooperative movements; for example, at the moment in Denmark or in the Netherlands, but I think we all know that, where producer-seller cooperatives are created by people of their own free will, and this is very appropriate. I lived or was born in a city where the cooperative movement had great traditions. There are three agricultural cooperatives in Eger. I am opening a parentheses: I consider it one of the greatest crimes of the change of regime that indiscriminately destroyed agricultural movements and cooperatives here in Hungary. That's one thing. Secondly, it should be mentioned that there were very serious traditions of industrial cooperatives, service cooperatives in Hungary, whether it was a clothing cooperative, a shoe cooperative, or a mixed industrial KTSZ, but even hairdressers, beauticians, even photographers in the service sector, were working for thousands of people, if not tens of thousands, in the service sector, for example. And we had a fellow Member who was the chairman of a housing association, perhaps you remember him, the notary of Parliament, Zsolt Török. Tens of thousands of people were granted housing within the housing cooperative movement. I am bringing this up because it would be okay for us to talk about a cooperative movement that will help the labour market, whether women return to the labour market or employment, even in relation to mothers. Look, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has pretty much told me what our group's position is on this issue, but I would like to dwell on one thing, and that is why I have asked for the floor. It is not clear to me, and I would be very pleased if, whether it be Member Kósa or Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, she would reflect on it, because I did not understand or may have read the bill or the proposal superficially; it is not clear to me why, in the case of young children, those concepts are formulated, and I would also like to quote:. If the duration of the task exceeds 6 hours a day, 20 a day, if it exceeds 9 hours a day, an additional 25 minutes of work should be granted to the member of the cooperative at home with the young child. If you carry out your duties on two consecutive days, a minimum rest period of 11 hours shall be provided between the completion of the day's work and the start of the next day's work. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In addition to providing special protection, which is very right, and I think it should be, but it is not clear to me that a mother who may be at home with a baby, why would she work nine hours a day, somehow it didn't go into my head, or why she would take a job where she is obligated to work every day. This would probably be the aim of the cooperative, so that small children can work flexibly, according to their needs, on an occasional basis. This regulation, at least for me, doesn't suggest that. I really couldn't decide that they were trying to provide a co-operation within the cooperative for mothers who raised and referred to small children here, I think all speakers mentioned this educational learning opportunity to perform the task of existing baby-mama clubs at the same time, to do this learning-training task at the same time, a bit of a protective task, a little bit of a family support task, a little kindergarten, a little bit of a kindergarten. This doesn't make any sense to me at all. I can't decide whether it's a job rental technology, it's a baby-mama club, or it's a transfer of state duties, I think, that's what someone was trying to do in his speech. So if it's neither, then convince me. I'm really available. I would like to stress that we do not have a problem with the idea of a cooperative, the form of employment of a cooperative, because I am a fan of that, and I would be happy to have more cooperatives in Hungary in the future than there are so far, but unfortunately, in recent years, I have experienced that even the concept has been discredited by many people, the notion that it is a co-operative. I hope that's not the way it's gonna go down. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2021-05-27-24	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz.
u2021-05-27-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Here in the debate, a number of questions have been raised, which I am convinced are either not reading this submitted law or not paying attention to the MEPs' exposé and keynote speeches. [[10.30]] But that's what happens when they write their speeches in advance, and they don't think that they might have a choice from the exposé or the speeches. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I said it by heart!]] Therefore, I would like to say it to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in the first place, but Lajos Korózs repeated some of it as a question. My colleague Bangón said that she does not understand why, how, how, she understands nothing of this law. If you had read it, I think you would have understood it, or if you had listened, you would have understood it, or if you hadn't written your speech in advance, that you wouldn't have understood it when you were in plenary. But since he's not in the room right now, I don't know how we're gonna explain to him the substance of the law, which has been said at least four times this time. But to give a concrete answer to a specific question, there was a question as to why, for example, rest periods should be regulated in this law, or why the question of the proportion of vouchers and their part should be subject to all kinds of tax exemptions. In fact, if you had read it, you would have seen it, because in this law the main direction of disaster is to amend the cooperative law, but in order to stand on its feet, it is necessary to amend 15 other laws, which fully supports this proposal in a coherent manner. These are, for example, the two questions that you have asked. In other words, it is not enough to amend all the laws on cooperatives, but also all the related laws, in which cooperatives are mentioned, must be amended. Lajos Korózs had a question as to whether this would trigger the activities of the protective service or the baby-mama clubs. It's not like that. The proposal aims at the creation of a very similar cooperative, which, as mentioned above, and you have also praised the existence and validity of pensioners' cooperatives and student associations, well, this is precisely the logic, precisely such regulation and purpose that this type of cooperative is created, and it is therefore not necessary to bring to the House other things already regulated in the cooperative law, as this is an addition to the basic law in which we propose. So it doesn't trigger anything else, it doesn't come out as a substitute for defense networks, baby-mama clubs, but as another opportunity for mothers and little dads. What my fellow Member Bangóné has said is that we always say that mothers should stay with their children as long as possible, and that, by the time this proposal broadening and making it easier for them to get into work, you do not know well, my fellow Member, that is not what we have just said. We said that we would, of course, want to have as many children as possible and that they could spend as much time with their families, their mothers. But if the family thinks that the mother would like to go to work sooner, we have entered into this situation of life and this Hungarian wish, and we have created a series of measures for mothers to work alongside children and children. I note that unlike you, we do this by saying that if you work alongside the lawn, you get the child and the lawn, so it's like you're at home with your child, and the income that makes you go back to work even in flexible employment or part-time jobs is an extra income for families. This proposal is a third option, so the first variation remains. Of course, everyone is happy that the mother stays at home with her child as long as possible, but the choice is very important. If you go to work part-time, you can do that, and your income will double, because you will also get your own income and your own children, too. And this third option is for people who want to go back to work, but that's exactly what Lajos Kósa said in his exposé, so that if you want to work only three hours a month, you can do it. No one is forced to work on a regular basis, not even for 3 hours a month. This is a voluntary task, a voluntary contract is created to work. I don't think it's likely that the mother will work nine hours a day, either, but there may be a weekend when she takes a job like this once a month or six months. It's not because he's being forced to do it, it's because he wants to do it himself, and he wants to do it himself. So our philosophy is to give families the opportunity to choose, and we can help them by all means; there must be established mechanisms, there must be legal institutions through which we can help free choice. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély also made a vague remark that this law suspects maladministration. My fellow Members have already responded to this. I think that Ildikó Bangóné Borbély here meant Csaba Czeglédy and his precedent. We would not like to experience another abuse of what Csaba Czeglédy committed in his case. As far as the numbers are concerned, allow me, please, fellow Members, to respond to the questions and suggestions raised by Daniel Z. I don't think it's appropriate to cut numbers, we don't do that. So when I'm about to give you numbers, you asked for numbers and you said, well, , there are also the numbers that you said, but not in the same way, compared to the apple with the pears, taken out, and in many cases, as they do on the left, based on some statistics from three or four years ago, and those statistics, say, are based on the statistics of the last few years. So, in many cases, you are putting the reality of 2014 into the debates in terms of numbers that make it look like today's situation and today's statistics. It is very unfair in a long-lost society to start with the birth of a child alone for its measurements [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Then you don't have to write in the justification!]] to measure that demographic processes can be set in a positive direction. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: You wrote the explanation. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Then you don't have to write in the justification!]] , to measure that it is able to set demographic trends in a positive direction. (Dániel Z. Karpát: You wrote it in the explanatory memorandum. The president's ringing. If my honourable fellow Member now listens to the explanation, he may understand and will not ask next time (Dániel Z. Carpathian: Then there is no need to write in the explanation!) Why we're arguing like this. If there are many fewer women with childbearing potential, we cannot expect this to be the only good measure of birth. Dear Dániel Z. Carpathian! Since 2011, until 2018, there have been 154 thousand women less capable of parenting. If there are 154 thousand women less capable of parenting, then I think it is unfair to expect them to produce the same birth number, to have the same number of children. Therefore, the effectiveness of the government's family policy can be measured much better and more crediblely by measuring the birth rate, the fertility rate. [[10.40]] And then here I would like to say some specific numbers, not opinions. In 2011, the birth rate was 1.23. That means that a hundred couples have 123 children. This is 2011, which is still the impression of the left-wing government before 2010, which, by the way, you, my fellow Members on the right, are now supporting. So they support the left, for whom the birth rate was significantly worse than today. Maybe we should argue with them and not with us, who are doing it for family policy, even during the coronal virus epidemic. So in 2011, 1,23; in 2016, five years after the introduction of the first measures, this rose to 1,49, i.e. a hundred couples did not have 123 children, but 149 children. Is that more? Essentially. The data for 2020 is now known, and this shows a further increase, with 1,56, or 156 children born on average of a hundred pairs. Is that an increase? Yeah, it's growth. Can you see that this direction, which we represent in family politics, leads in the right direction or in the opposite direction? You can see that it is. Of course, if you ask us that we are satisfied that 1,56, we say that this is not the end of the process. The best thing to do would be to go over two. By the way, if we are on this path, there is a real chance of getting there slowly, in a period of about ten years, if the voters give this government confidence to continue this family policy in the future. Let me also reflect, because there was also a question about the statistical numbers of the pay gap between men and women. Well, we can never be happy with anything, of course, because then it's so bad, we always have to make something better for something. But let's see where we started, and where we are now. In 2012, statistical data, 20.1 percent of the pay gap between men and women in Hungary. By the way, it was similar in several countries in Europe, slightly less then. By 2018, the wage gap between men and women was almost halved to 11.2 percent. What do we see from this? We see that the objective and the will to reduce, for example, wage differences between women and men are taking action on this path, and we have taken steps in the right direction. To mention just two examples: one is a multi-annual wage increase for health workers and educators, because we know that there are significantly more women in these sectors. This also contributes to reducing wage differences between men and women in Magyarorszá-gon. Besides, since there are pay signs in Ma-Garland in almost all or perhaps all of the public sectors, it is not really possible to talk about the wage difference between men and women within these spheres, because there is a difference between education, position and working time. The situation in the economic sphere is quite different, but of course we can also use incentives there to put women in a favourable position before retirement, which the government has already done after 2010, and also to allow mothers raising young children to return to their jobs after the end of Gyed and Gyed. And before Dániel Z. Carpathian would say that these are production reports, no, please. These are not production reports, this is a set of real numbers, and if you say other numbers, I think it's hard to argue with numbers, and neither television viewers nor those who follow the debate on the Internet [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They won't be able to decide. You better read after it, 'cause the numbers are gonna confirm us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. My apologies to my fellow Members, I did not see the congresswoman go over by half a minute. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa on a case-by-case basis.
u2021-05-27-27	Mr. President. Dear House, With all due respect, I would like to ask Mr President and his dear fellow Members to try and stay with the amendment of the cooperative law. This law is not a VAT law, it is not a demographic law, it is not a parliamentary decree on the establishment of a Chinese university, it is a law on maternity cooperatives. If we get so distracted, then the debate becomes completely pointless and pointless, and everyone starts talking about it, which doesn't help the interpretation of the law anyway. Perhaps Congressman Korózs was the most exemplary of all that he spoke about, about cooperatives. I'd like to answer him, but by the time I get there, if that's the case, there won't be any point in the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Two-minute comments, first Zoltán Varga, DK.
u2021-05-27-29	Thank you very much. Fifteen years ago, I got used to Lajos Kósa telling me to clean up once in a while if he didn't like something. [[Intercoms, including Lajos Kósa: Because you are lying. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Dear Mr. Kósa, You can tell me no matter how many times the opposition lies, there's only one problem that you have a past. It's when you're talking about asking for it, by the way, behind the retirement unions. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] There's nothing nasty, so let's not forget István Fiák's name and Tócó-Pece Kft., right? For six million forints, his family bought 170 million forints... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2021-05-27-30	Congressman, I'm going to take the floor, not the law...
u2021-05-27-31	But we're talking about retirement unions, Mr. President. [[Crying out. The president's ringing the bell.]] But, of course, Mr. Sons is interested in retirement cooperatives. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But this is not a retirement association. Z. Kárpát Dániel: There is a general debate.]] By the way, I apologize to Congressman Nacsa for bleeding lenachaoli, but at times it does look like a parodyt, which is why it can be, until we speak. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] When he speaks, not so much. So if one side is free, then the other is free!
u2021-05-27-32	The other's not allowed, you're not allowed. Let's get to the point, Congressman.
u2021-05-27-33	So what I would like to say in all, Mr Kósa, is that the form of the cooperative and the co-operative would be an honorable thing if you didn't present it, but we do not believe one word of you precisely on the basis of your blessed activities in pensioners' cooperatives. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lárinc: What about Czeglédy?]]
u2021-05-27-34	I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs for two minutes, MSZP.
u2021-05-27-35	I don't think I'm even gonna take the two minutes. I can see, fellow imagers, that the two parties are deliberately speaking side by side here, but I would like to mention that these demographic trends and vocations are included in the explanatory statement. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] If it hadn't been for that, God knows my soul, I certainly wouldn't have brought it up like I didn't mention it. I'm sure I can see one, and let me have so many sociological methods, because I've been taking notes that the birth rate is mixed with the total fertility rate. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right.]] From now on, what Dániel Z. Carpathian is saying regarding population loss is appropriate. The fertility rate is in place again, that thank God, there is only one thing to understand logically, that the ta-thing, before last year, was not born ten years ago, if she grew up, she would not have a child, because she was not born ma-ga. Consequently, we are obviously aware that if the number of women of childbearing age is reduced, they may become more children, but the population will also decrease because births, deaths and migration should be taken into account when calculating population growth. What is the Hungarian experience is that many years ago, more people came to Hungary, and now more people are leaving. True, those who came in were several Hungarians across the border. Our sprint balance is going down. [[10.50]] The total fertility rate may have increased slightly a few years ago, but that it is nowhere near the reproductive rate, we can conclude that, I think, my fellow Members. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] From now on, I think there's no need to push this any further. If there is such an agenda, then, of course, I will speak again. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-27-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Korózs. On a case-by-case basis, Mr Zoltán Varga, DK.
u2021-05-27-37	That's right, thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm a new Member of Parliament, and I'm getting cold seeing that Mr. James is a faction leader because he dared to criticize the leadership of the meeting. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He didn't criticize him, he just said I was a brat!]] He's being punished for millions of forints. Lajos Kósa has done nothing but [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: He refused to take part in the meeting.]] He's practically criticizing the meeting and giving him advice not to say instructions. Please take note of what Louis Kósa is doing and wait for him to be punished. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2021-05-27-38	The Chairman did not consider it to be an instruction at all. [[A statement from the ruling parties: It was a request! Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Instead, he was talking to my fellow Members to get to the point, and I am confirming that. Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member Jobbik, has applied for a normal speech and repeated speech.
u2021-05-27-39	Mr President, Dear House, I will turn to my colleague Kósa after two minutes of public education. My fellow Member, who do you think you are? It's a democracy. You should not try to limit a general debate. The President's observation was correct, and the president-in-Office can do so, and you can't do it. Let's at least promote democracy. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It was a request! It was a request!]] How come you're trying to narrow down the minds of any opposition representative in a general debate? Your concept of democracy is incredibly incomplete, if you mean it. What I am asking myself, however, is that you accuse my fellow Member of the Danube of a misconception. He spoke about very, very important demographic issues, even if I disagree with him, I will protect my fellow Member from you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Nacsa Lőrinc: But you don't have to!]] Don't call what you're saying a mess of speech, even if it doesn't seem to be strictly part of the cooperative issue. But for the President, I note that when I talk about demography and the number of live births, I open up your general justification from this bill, so you have been disproved, including my fellow Member of the Danube. I didn't make it up, it's in your justification, and in the production report you correctly quoted me as the result of the family protection action plan, the number of children to be born is increasing and is expected to increase in the future. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes!]] That's literally what's going on in your explanation. And then you stand up and start defending yourself, and you tell me why the number of live births isn't really going to increase. I would add that this improved justification is the right one, indeed, as the number of women of childbearing age is, unfortunately, constantly decreasing, and is less likely to even remain on the level. I am very keen to have it, but it is precisely the historical sin of this government that makes this difficult, because the Ratko-grandsons may still be the last of their populous ages to begin to slip out of the age when they can physically have children. And we must tell you that we had a proposal before the Welfare Committee on this matter regarding the baby shower loan, of which I do not know, in any other discriminatory way, how my fellow Member of the Danube can identify with this as a woman, discriminatingly excluding women over 40 from the possibility of baby shower support. You have supposedly met with doctors and decided until what age it is worth for Hungarian women to have children. How do you come to this? 65,000 Hungarian women are excluded from the possibility of using the baby shower in a discriminatory way, and do you want to tell these women to have children, receive support or not? On what grounds? We have tabled a proposal to eliminate this brutal discrimination against Hungarian women, to remove the age limit. You say it doesn't affect so many women, even if it doesn't cost a lot of money, I don't understand why it couldn't be voted on. The fact is that Mr and Mrs Nacsa did not come to work in the first place, to vote on this very important issue in the committee concerned, because you did not like the person of the committee president. Well, if a Hungarian employee tried this at work, how long do you think it would take him to sign his resignation? It's pretty amazing how they behave. Here is a substantive proposal [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] which would help the situation that you are talking about and exclude 65,000 Hungarian women from this opportunity. Then they start to keep a production report here in the general explanation of the increase in the number of live births, their own representative proves why this is impossible, unfortunately, and then they ask us why we are talking about this issue. It's pretty gross. For the sake of my fellow Member from the Danube, I note that there were times of peace when television viewers followed these debates, but you even stopped broadcasting. Now you can follow all this through the web, but obviously a much narrower circle can follow the events here than before. And we also have to say that if we look at the fertility rates in the surrounding countries, in the case of Slovenia we will find a 1.6, perhaps the Czech Republic can be interpreted in the broad region with the number 1.63, so 1.55 of Hungary can form the lower centre of the region's average here. And once again, the profession calls this process a replacement, so google it. It is clear that in Hungary the displacement in the fertility rate is the same as in the whole region, only a few years later, last in the whole region, and this has been put to very, very many Hungarian lives. I would also like to tell you that this debate is unpleasant for my fellow Member of the Danube, because he is involved in an indissolvable debate with your own Secretary of State. Well, you're supposed to be quoting good statistics here, let's face it, and I accept that, you say, you've reduced the wage difference between the ladies and the gentlemen to 11 percent thanks to your good governance. My fellow Member, the Committee on Enterprise Development held a meeting yesterday, and a competent secretary of state for the government, dealing with the field, may not tell you that the Secretary of State, appointed by you, does not know the area where you have appointed him, and this secretary of state clearly said that there is still an 18 percent wage gap between men and women; a little higher than the European average, let us add, since there was a more moderate figure in terms of the European average. My request is that you negotiate with each other, or that the government in your own house correct communication, because yesterday's statement by a competent secretary of state against the statistical data you have brought here from somewhere. I don't want to argue about where you got it and how you got it, but please discuss it with each other, because it's very difficult for us to have a professional debate with different numbers every day. This is an incredibly difficult situation, yet we are trying to meet this challenge, but at the same time we see that reducing the age of the baby shower is an assassination against the Hungarian ladies, so if we go in a demographic direction, they should definitely do something about it. In terms of fertility rates, the fact that this number is going to increase to above 2 in a ten-year perspective... I don't know anyone in the business who would expect that. I propose a thorough visual inspection of the study book The Child Our Future is written by their KDNP experts and civil experts. If the Government of Hungary already has background experts who are excellent and competent, they sometimes take their advice, because these people have been working for decades to solve this brutal problem. So I'm going to get you to talk to your own experts, take your advice, bring in the suggestions for improvement here, and if they really are the way the experts dreamed of them, I will certainly support them. Thank you for your opportunity and patience, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2021-05-27-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-05-27-41	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would first like to make a point of order. I will take part in the debate as rapporteur. The author has the right to comment at any time in the debate or even to make requests for the meeting to be held, such as a proposal to close the debate. So don't confuse different roles. If a person is speaking as a simple Member or as a representative of general tasks, then he does not have those rights. So I reject any lecture on democratic behavior. You just don't know the house rules, and that's what's causing the confusion. [[11.00]] Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, in relation to the cooperative movement, the cooperative idea, I have a long history, but I do not see it as an accusation, but I am happy about it. I am very, very happy that the student cooperative system has been put in order. The student cooperative system came into crisis when Péter Kiss died, and thus the largest mentor of the time in Parliament was lost. Then came the Czegledy era, which, by the way, was equivalent to crime. Csaba Czeglédy is indeed a criminal, and a repeat criminal, twice convicted of the same crimes. So everyone has the right, and even so it is right to post Csaba Czeglédy as a repeat criminal. Calling everything else a criminal without any justification is an accusation and slander we have seen a lot of times from Congressman Varga, because Congressman Varga's only science is slander without any basis. He's never done anything positive in his political career, I know him from Debrecen, other than folding himself a slumber, making a fool of himself all over the country, but that's his right and slandered without any basis. It's his science, he gave me a taste of it. Congratulations. Mr. President. Dear House, I will not comment on everything that has been said in the debate, because my proposal is not some sort of lapis philosophicum or panacea to find a solution to all problems. They asked for something on my proposal that they didn't know, but they didn't want: VAT issue, tax policy, establishment of a Chinese university, the evolution of the wage level, the evolution of inflation. It's a cooperative proposal, a cooperative proposal, it's a form of enterprise. So everyone here who's been talking about everything since demography, I don't want to answer that. [[Z. Kárpát, Daniel: Why did you write it in the explanatory statement? The president's ringing the bell.]] No, because, once again, this is a cooperative law amendment debate. Therefore, I do not wish to respond to the comments made by Daniel Z. Carpathian because they did not come to the point. What I would like to do to my fellow Member, Bangóné, is that it is not the first time that we have experienced serious problems with the interpretation of the legislative proposals. We also saw this during the debate on the Code of Work, when he read from the amendment I tabled that free Saturday will be abolished in Hungary, and everyone has to work on Saturday as well. I guess everyone noticed that wasn't true. We still knew it was a lie. He had a point, a point, a very strong picture of himself lying in the MTA headquarters, but everything else he said about it was stupid. I would like to respond substantially to the suggestions made by my colleague, Mr Korózs, because they appear to be relevant and have referred to important issues. He talked about the general cooperative movement. Not all cooperatives operate by asking for a personal participation. For example, housing unions. There are 600,000 people living in condos. There are all kinds of legal anomalies here, and I would also like to make a legislative proposal on this. There, as a matter of fact, personal involvement is also incomprehensible. For example, a Zrt was created with the transformation of PESZs. rather than them, which cannot be called a cooperative, although it is also a member of the cooperative movement as such a strange heritage. In essence, the credit unions have ceased to exist in Hungary and have turned into banks. So the cooperative movement has been transformed quite significantly, but the law is a general framework law on cooperatives. There are forms of cooperatives where personal participation can be interpreted, such as the school cooperative, the retirement cooperative, and the maternity cooperative, where personal participation is not limited. The reason you don't have a limit is because we assume that this is a form of voluntary enterprise, where, when you enter, you take the personal contribution. By the way, certain production and sales cooperatives are like this, especially in agriculture, during harvest, where, for example, members work more than 9 hours a day as owners, so this does not contradict the labour code, where this is excluded, but they are not employees, but members. And let's say, during a pick-up or a so-called campaign period, when there is agricultural harvest and processing, they may be performing more, but the general regulation doesn't include this, because we started by saying that members can decide whether they want to do this or not. The reason why the maternity cooperatives have this restriction is because we thought it was important here that mothers should not be able to survive as a result of their life situation. So both the rest period and the 9-hour limit serve this purpose. So we're not talking about some kind of compulsion here, but if someone wants to get over it or go above certain levels, we wanted to limit it. So here's the fear that Lajos Korózs expressed, I think it's unfounded. If someone reads the text, it sets a ceiling for the commitment that a mother can make with her personal contribution. It's unlikely, by the way. So, typically, student associations take on this kind of commitment, because it's typical for students to do snowwork, have two days, then step in and work 10-12 hours a day. There is no restriction, a member of the cooperative, with personal involvement as owner. At the maternity unions, we thought it was because of the special life situation and the home-care baby that we were putting in some kind of upper limit. If this is too much, let's lower it down, so I look forward to your amendments, but this is not some kind of compulsion, it is a restriction. The other thing that was raised by Lajos Korózs is how it can be interpreted that we have specific tasks, not tasks, but opportunities that can be financed from the social or community fund of the cooperative. But if you observe the text, if you do this, there's an extra tax discount for this, because the meal ticket, which is free, is allowed to use the meal ticket to do so, so to speak, they can reduce it a little if someone wants to. We have tried to collect what is lifelike for mothers, which should be highlighted in the use of social and community funds, and here we have started again from their situation that it is obvious that listening to professional lectures or a course for raising children can be like this. There is a need to separate a community fund from cooperative income, and that this can be used for this, it is an opportunity, in fact, a sja-cience for the participants in maternity cooperatives, but again on the basis that we have tried to model it and talked to advocacy organisations about what can be lifelike here. I very much hope that if there is still a proposal that might be drawn up and really relates to the subject of the bill, then I look forward to it being developed and tried to build it up, or sit down and discuss whether it is sensible or not. One thing is certain: this bill is the bill on the establishment of maternity cooperatives as an opportunity. A lot of things that have been raised in the debate are inadequate, but Parliament itself works in such a way that we do not put forward such general wishful thinking legislative proposals to make everything better, and everyone should respect that, but rather a specific area, concrete legislation, which takes on a specific task, well, badly, we will see. Very, very much of this legislation is needed in order for life to develop positively in Hungary as a whole. I'd like to contribute to that. Those I have consulted liked this, but at least no one has said that it is of interest to them, and I am sure that this was not the last proposal I put forward with regard to cooperatives. I hope that this will also get at least the majority of the governing parties, and then this proposal, the issue of maternity cooperatives, will be launched. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[11.10]]
u2021-05-27-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you and inform you that it is possible to present the amendments tomorrow, that is, Friday, at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the proposal to amend individual laws in the field of vocational training and adult education until closure. Government referral T/16204. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the government's priorities is to improve Hungary's competitiveness and strengthen the knowledge-based economy based on work. A key prerequisite for sustainable economic growth is a skilled labour force capable of adapting to labour market needs. It is therefore necessary to develop and maintain a training structure adapted to labour market needs, to support the broadening of vocational education and training in dual education and adult education. Economic, social and technological changes are making labour market needs constantly changing, and we all know that. The number of skilled jobs is decreasing, while there is a growing demand for IT and robotic skills professionals in the design, construction and operation of systems. There should be no mistake, therefore, not fewer workers, but in new responsibilities, in changed circumstances and in higher added value jobs, there is an effective need for suitable professionals. In addition, companies have a legitimate expectation of the need for continuous further training and the provision of them to their own employees. The government has made significant progress in the development of the VET system, with further impetus at the end of 2019 in the adoption of the new VET law. I would also like to thank Parliament for supporting this law. According to the new law, the new vocational training system was launched from 1 September 2020 and could be said to have been successful, vocational training institutions, pupils and their parents being open to the new training system. That's what the application numbers show. The development of the economy and changes in society continue to pose new challenges to the system of vocational training and adult education, to which we need to provide innovative and adaptable responses in order to maintain competitiveness. Therefore, a training and education system can never be completed, it cannot be considered finished, because its continuous development, adapted to the needs of the age and economy, ensures that there is always a sufficient number of professionals with high level of expertise and key competences. We consider it important that the experience of new training courses and the functioning of the new institutions, as well as the professionally informed comments received from the actors in vocational training and the economy in relation to the new legislative environment, can and should be integrated into the regulation. Dear Parliament, What is new, too, is that the epidemic period has significantly affected our lives and the Hungarian economy. Both the economy and the families have suffered over the past period. With all the power of the government, he was and is now to help those in trouble. At the same time, it is clear from the current data that the Hungarian economy is a strong, secure economy and our prospects are very encouraging. This also means that there is a huge need and a huge need for skilled workers. We strive to ensure that young people and adults get as many jobs and qualifications as possible, as many people can take part in further training. To this end, we are now taking further steps to further develop vocational training and adult education. Dear House, The bill before you contains provisions to ensure that the renewed vocational training and adult education system has a higher standard of performance. They also serve a more efficient operation as well as wider responsibilities. The proposals are based on initiatives from VET and economic stakeholders and summarised by the VET Innovation Council Working Group. Dear Parliament, The proposal before you aims, in particular, at amending the regulatory areas relating to the management, operation of the vocational training system, participation in vocational training and the system of vocational training contributions, but also includes provisions to help the system of adult education to function more effectively and to harmonise it with the system of public education. Among other things, it clarifies the concept of basic vocational training provision and clarifies that it is always part of the organisation of the preparatory year related to professional education and of the workshop school. These training stages are inseparable parts of vocational training and provide alternative learning pathways for the acquisition of professions. It sets out in more detail rules on the management of vocational training institutions and vocational training centres, rules on their budgets, which make public ownership management obligations more transparent and lay down basic frameworks for the planning and use of the institutions' budgets. The amendment also provides the basis for the establishment of an independent VET textbook, separate from the public education system, whose conditionality can be better adapted to the diverse needs of VET. The register providing for the inclusion of both traditional and digital textbooks is managed by the Vocational Education Administration. The amendment of the Public Education Act in the same way as the Act on Vocational Training ensures that vocational training is free of charge in the framework of a basic vocational training task, which is a multipurpose public education institution by public education institutions, vocational schools and vocational schools. Of course, this is primarily a question of legal technology, since it has been free so far. Vocational training is a priority for the training of persons with multiple disadvantages and specific educational needs or disabilities. The amendment states at a legal level that there are no limits on free travel for persons with multiple disadvantages and specific educational needs or persons with disabilities in the context of student status. Furthermore, the bill allows adults studying in vocational education and training institutions to be eligible for student IDs in the new vocational training system. Dear Parliament, The government is also helping to restart the economy through tax policy, because we do not believe in tax increases, but on the contrary, in tax reductions. The VET contribution system will be implemented as of 1 July 2022, but organisations that undertake dual training can continue to benefit from the benefits so far. The tax burden on labour is thus reduced by 2 percentage points and the tax system is further simplified in Hungary. As a result of the changes, I repeat 250 HUF per year: 250 billion is left over by businesses. Dear Parliament, The draft before you also includes amendments to adult education, perhaps the most important of which is to further reduce the administration of training courses. However, the proposal also provides for training credit, which can be used in the same way as higher education student credit, for free or captive use. [[11.20]] Dear Parliament, Our well-functioning training systems during the epidemic also demonstrate that the new vocational training and adult training launched in 2020 are well suited to provide modern, competitive and practical knowledge for young people and adults. The VET system provides a secure basis for further strengthening the Hungarian economy, and adult education ensures the continued possibilities of flexible adaptation to changes. The knowledge acquired in high-quality vocational training provides good professional work, stable and predictable livelihoods, decent wages and contributes to Hungary's competitiveness. With the adoption of the bill before you, it will be possible for a renewed and high-quality system of vocational training and adult education to continue to provide adequate answers to the challenges of an ever-changing economic environment. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-27-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Maria Kállai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-27-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Deputy Minister, Dear House, The proposal before us is an excellent example of the fact that if we adopt a law in 2019 based on a broad professional consensus and broad professional cooperation even at the moment of adoption, time will justify it and justify this law. We could also say, I could say in the proposal that it was thoughtful, organized, flexible and responsible. I would just like to underline this responsibility, because this in itself means that we need, as we have heard from the Deputy Minister, fine-tuning and amendments. After all, if we look back in time for a short time and see this process together, we can see that in the government's decision in 2019 it adopted 4.0 of Vocational Training as a strategy for the renewal of vocational training and adult training, and, in fact, this is our educational response in the new direction of vocational training, I think it is a very good answer to the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution. As Deputy Minister said, we adopted the VET Act on 19 November 2019, the Adult Education Act on 10 December 2020, and indeed 1 September 2020 is a good day in the VET system, since the VET and adult education system has been operating according to the new structure. At the time, our priority was to provide at least one professional qualification based on the needs of the economy and providing modern skills for all Hungarian citizens of working age. This is also very important in terms of personal prosperity, in terms of its own strong vision, but I think that it is at least as important to ensure the continuous development of the Hungarian economy and the supply of labour. That is why I would like to point out once again how important it is to monitor the law on a continuous basis and to integrate the views of the co-operatives, to carry out fine-tunings. In the spirit of continued coherence, it must be said, Mr Deputy Minister, that in the course of the preliminary discussions there have been no disputes, and it can indeed be said that the draft before us has actually been drawn up on the experience of implementation, with a view to ensuring the legal framework for the necessary amendments. As a quality professional, I can say that we are actually seeing a real quality assurance process, or if we say how a law is performed, how a law can be of a service provider, well, it is a good example of this, that it continuously gathers opinions from those who are affected by the law on the one hand. He bravely dares to modify and do so in practically very serious and wide-ranging professional discussions. I thank you with respect for this, as well as for the fact that today there is a very serious expectation of a law, a law, that it has the dynamism that we have heard in the referral, how the labour market needs are changing, how the structure of needs is changing, how the competitiveness of the economy, Hungary's competitiveness can respond to this as quickly as possible, and it must be said that it is also in the interests of the competitiveness of individual means of prosperity. I think that with whom we are in contact in our constituency, with the vocational training centres, we can see that the introduction has been a success. It was a big change, but it was very well received. So in retrospect, I think there was a very serious reason for serious involvement. Thank you very much, I have a daily and regular relationship with the Szolnok Vocational Training Centre in my constituency, and I also see the implementation through it in practice. Thank you for your work, but to all the vocational training centres, I think we have been able to thank you for the very creative, very victimetic and very, very serious work that has been done in recent times during the epidemiological situation. As I said above, we consider it very important to integrate professionally sound comments from VET and economic operators into the regulation. Technically, this is the task of the Vocational Training Innovation Council itself when it collects them and reflects on them. Mr Deputy Minister said that the proposal before us could actually be structured around three large packages: the management and operation of vocational training, participation in vocational training, support for vocational training, contribution and, in fact, adult training; so we can say four. I'd just like to make a few highlights, too. When we start to apply a law, then, I think it's perfectly natural that, in the meantime, concepts need to be clarified, demands come, contradictions come. I think that it is perfectly all right that the basic task is part of the preparatory and workshop school related to vocational education. That was the intention, too, but the language record is both comforting and, on the other hand, we also see and need to see what is very binding, what we can give greater space to. For example, I believe that it is practical and important to use the programmes for each profession in a quasi-advised manner. Obviously, we do not talk about the subjects, the hours, and the rest that give us the pillar on which this rests. It is very important to fine-tune dual training, and also to release the root root of the Hungarian culture. It is important that this requires the concept of a professional organisation in sectoral training centres, the creation, refining and clarification of this optimal operation. How can this happen? By keeping in constant contact with the actors, listening to improved opinions and integrating them into a system. I could list in all four main elements the amendments that generate a need and allow for a reduction in administration, be it in the adult education institution, be it in dual training. This is also a very serious intention, since we intend to reduce bureaucracy in principle. It is very important to deal with situations arising from the transition situation; I do not analyse them. We have all been able to read, for example, the possibility of an examination. During the transitional period, this amendment is very serious in helping to ensure equal opportunities for examination. Dear Parliament, We can see that, overall, all the intention to change is towards simplification and practicality, and I therefore hope that we will all support it in any way, because when we support such a vocational training and adult training package, we support the Hungarian economy, support Hungarian people and support Hungarian families. If we look at the number of systems of cooperation between vocational training and adult education, how rich cooperation affects each of them individually, there is a great deal to be said about. After all, the only thing that we can all underline is the continuous comment of the economic players. I am very pleased with the not very old phone in my own town, how to arrange for bicycle repair training at the relevant vocational training centre. Thank God, we were talking about the profession in the sectoral list. I am pleased to report that the training was announced four days later. We could all set a series of examples that ensure that if a vocational training centre, a management, has a real relationship with the labour market, how this affects those seeking work, those starting training, those changing training, how it affects young people. I think that, overall, we could say that this is what the bill or amendment proposal serves. Overall, Honourable Parliament, I wanted to make a few points, to underline a few points. Overall, we can say that it promotes a rapid response, competitiveness and takes responsibility for the refinements that may be included in the two laws. [[11.30]] During the adoption of the Vocational Training Act in 2019 I said the following in my speech, and I quote it literally:. If we pass that law, we will do our fundamental duty to set the VET system on a new path based on its new value, thus serving the welfare of the Hungarian families, the Hungarian economy. The support for the amendments, which I am proposing and asking of all my fellow Members, is in fact a continuation of this line of thought. On the basis of the above, the Fidesz fraction thanks you for the work done and, of course, supports the acceptance of the changes. I trust that all my fellow Members will do so. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, Mrs Kállai here at the moment called this bill a quality assurance miracle. There will be a number of elements, which I would also like to highlight in praise, but let us not forget that we are talking about vocational training 4.0. Where's the rest? Why do I ask that? Because it has been ten years, during which this sector, which has been thrown between ministries, and in many respects has been regarded as stepdaughters and treated as such, has not only been left on the edge of the trench, but has also been kicked into it. I say this, by the way, that I myself taught there as the nation's day laborer, so there are, say, experiences from the real world on which I dare to make this statement here. So, in order to fix something here, there was a history. By the way, I do not know how to really relate to the whole bill, nor do we: basically we think in a different concept, but it is certainly true that many of the elements of this whole system will be able to improve what is presented here from the bill. However, these ten years have passed, my fellow Members, to the lecso, and to refer to Zoltán Pokorni at the time: along with these ten years, many thousands of children and young people have gone to Hungary, which would have been a good thing to avoid, because it is our future. Then let me point out here that they will not like you for this statement because of your interview with Márius Révész a few days ago, in which he said that there is no other European school system as chaotic as it is in Hungary. And if I was just talking about the fact that this sector, the vocational training between the ministries, has changed all over the place who is overseeing this very important area, then I will ask you not to say that this is some sort of opposition accusation, but I would like to refer once again to the very sad and reality-based finding of Márius Révész. The fact that this system does not serve mobility in Hungary could be supported by statistical data, and in such debates it is also organised. In the case of teacher wages, I am well aware that there was a so-called wage increase within the vocational training system, but it is forgotten to say that there was nothing before that, and that the civil servant status was also removed from the colleagues working there, which is indeed a huge violation of their interest. So teachers' wages should be settled even better than they have done here, because teachers' wages in Hungary are certainly lagging behind, let's say, the average salary of a graduate, and if we do a European outlook, then the situation is even more pathetic, even more shameful. So, you may now call this bill, the result of an ex post impact assessment, an improvement of the system, but let us say that from the opposition, we would rather just repair something that wasn't built on good foundations. If it wasn't built on good foundations, if the ground is wobbly, if a castle is built on sand, then in the long run, there's no need to hope for a great miracle. What I'm thinking here, let me highlight a few things. The systematic attempt to block roads to higher education is, I think, no question or debate, but that is how we see it. The fact that the school system cannot function in Hungary as a mobility channel is also part of reality. The fact that basic competences should be deepened rather than often being based primarily on the needs of the labour market is also not in question for us here in these benches. That the foundation phase should be longer than what we see here in Hungary, we believe and believe. The need to ensure a higher level of push-up of track choices and correction opportunities is also not in question for us. This system, which you have built with two thirds over the last 11 years, misses or does not allow. Then let us look at some of the things that can really be supported by this bill, and whether it will eventually become a abstaination, or whether it will be a support from the Jobbik faction, that will be decided in the next few days. So the fact that we are talking about clarifying the provision of data is that this proposal will reduce the administrative burden of dual training sites or of adult trainers, of course, it should be supported. That management of adult education, track tracking, labour market forecast should also be supported in this way, with this ease of reporting, will be signed and will not be opposed. The fact that, let us say, the employer's internal training opportunities are expanding is also a welcome and welcome thing, as is the introduction of a vocational training and adult education loan, but I add, Mr State Secretary, beyond praise, so this is a positive step, and we in the opposition benches are thinking more about an adult education account, which is actually a lifetime or while it is an active person, would allow him to use these opportunities free of charge to some extent and for the rest of his life, as it is a matter of social interest when we say that competitiveness must be increased in Hungary and that citizens should be able to re-train themselves and re-train themselves. The fact that wealth management and the budget of vocational training centres and institutions become more transparent and clear is also a positive feature of this proposal. The fact that vocational education and training institutions can now work with a flexible professional programme adapted to the needs of the local economic environment will try to take back something in this sector from the central, centralised madness, which we have so many times, and which is rightly criticised by us, and when the outcome requirements are stressed to be the basis, we can agree with that. The participation of professional organisations in and participation in the sector training centres is indeed a colourful and fresh spot on this proposal. And when you say that care for students with SNIs and students with disabilities is a priority, we can say a huge yes, but the reality here intervenes and kicks the door at us. [[János Schanda Tamás intervenes.]] Because according to the paper form, let's say, this care goes for walking, only everyday sad practice shows that it doesn't. [[11.40]] I do not think that this is particularly necessary, nor can it be seen from the seat of pro-government or undersecretary of state, because that is what a significant part of the Commissioner for Education's annual report that we have met in the Committee on Culture is about. He lists for hundreds of pages those terrible, horrifying and sad cases, when you declare, as you do now, in the form of a bill, that attention should be paid to students with SNI, people with disabilities, but this attention will not be achieved. Let me draw attention to some shortcomings in this regard. The fact that technics and higher education institutions can create a jointly developed programme for graduation and professional exams is indeed a novum in this proposal, which can bring something good out of it. The intention of organising traineeships and clarifying the rules on this is also a matter to be supported. Or that meeting the requirements in higher education in a shorter time than required has finally been put on the agenda, and that they can count on ex ante knowledge, experience, knowledge, practice, really makes the system more flexible, much more attractive, which would be the purpose of all this. Then let's see what we're missing. My fellow Members in the pro-government benches and, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to go back to the history of SNI students. 45 percent of SNI students continue their careers in vocational training after primary school, and in schools they used to call vocational training. There is a huge shift in proportion, and the fact is that I can say and convey this shift in proportion to the complaints of colleagues that you do not notice. Once again, I am trying to quote relatively fresh data for that 17,000 to a few hundred SNI students, 45 percent of them will continue their careers in vocational schools covering 20 percent of secondary schooling. Will you give us the money, the steed and the gun to deal with the problems that arise there, and the teachers, the instructors, can deal with them? If they say they're gonna give it to me, it's not true. Let us also add how high the proportion of disadvantaged or cumulative disadvantaged students in these schools is. I know that speaking of vocational training, it is not only about vocational training, but also about new techniques, where the situation is somewhat different. But now I would like to focus on this area with a 20% share, and at least some promise from the Secretary of State that they will pay attention to it and that these problems will be given much more emphasis. Because these are the students you refer to in this bill, by the way, once again, in a very welcome way, well, these students and their parents often feel that they are kicked off the Tajgetos and left behind. Because there are no professionals in these schools who can deal with them, their special problems. So, equal opportunities are greatly impaired. You may not see this, let's say, from the luxury schools where pro-government pews tend to send their children, but believe me, this is the reality, especially in those rural vocational schools whose complaints I'm trying to put before you. And when it comes to competitiveness, my time is running out, but let's get back to this, it sounds very nice in theory to increase competitiveness in Hungary. But if we look at the last data before the epidemic in 2019, the data of the World Economic Forum, what do we see, Mr. Secretary? What we see is that of the 140 or one hundred forty-some countries surveyed, and if we look at the EU, the 28 EU Member States, Hungary is the 24th EU Member State. Let us not be so proud to prevent Romania and Bulgaria from being competitive. We must be proud if we prevent, say, Slovakia, Poland or the Czech Republic, I do not go further, because that would be really unfair, given the historical background and past behind Hungary. So, I have a question for you here: if you're talking about competitiveness, tell me how much information class there is in the type of school I was just talking about. And if there are few, because my question is obviously poetic, then how the hell will Hungary become competitive? How do you intend to prepare those students, those young people, to become members of this competitive economy capable of generating great added value? Well, that's gonna be really hard. And even if those IT teachers are driven away under the conditions in these schools. Mr. President, I just have one question. I have 15 minutes, don't I?
u2021-05-27-48	Yes, Congressman.
u2021-05-27-49	Well, thank you very much. I'll keep going.
u2021-05-27-50	Thank you, Congressman. You will then have the opportunity to continue after the speaker's speech. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Education and vocational training are among the priorities of the national Christian Democratic Government. Our aim is to provide a competitive, flexible, innovative training opportunity for young Hungarians, who can adapt to the requirements of today's world. We Christian democrats support the government's goal of leading Hungary in the field of innovation. We believe that a competitive vocational training system that can adapt to today's challenges is also essential. This is the purpose of the government's 4.0 strategy for vocational training and the new VET law adopted by the Parliament at the end of 2019. Education expenditure, as we discussed in the budget debate last week, exceeds HUF 2180 billion on the basis of the budget numbers of 2022, which represents an increase of nearly HUF 735 billion compared to the last left-wing budget in 2010. Next year's budget will provide some HUF 1045 billion for education workers, which is also much higher than in the 2010 left-wing budget. From this year's 2020-21 academic year, all students, a total of 1.2 million students, received the textbooks free of charge at the beginning of the academic year. For this purpose, the government will spend more than HUF 13 billion next year. This includes students in vocational training, as high quality textbooks are also completely free of charge for students who attend the 13-16 vocational education and training courses. The National Textbook Publisher, we can remember, was handed to the left in 2004. The winner of this privatisation was that Ferenc Gyurcsány was then Prime Minister's business partner, who obtained the Book Publisher for HUF 3.2 billion, while there was a valid HUF 1 billion more expensive offer for HUF 4.2 billion. An average textbook package during that period was 30,000 forints for one student. If we add that, even in the economically better years of the Gyurcsány government, the average monthly net income was 100-120 thousand HUF, the average salary officially published by the KSH, then in the case of two school children, more than half of one parent's monthly earnings went to the textbooks only. During the period following the textbook privatisation in Gyurcsány, HUF 24 billion was the profit of the Privatized Book Publisher, of which HUF 14.5 billion was taken out as dividends. At this price, families had to break into the purchase of textbook packages, while in the textbook business some of Ferenc Gyurcsány's business associates realised a profit of 24 billion. In addition, more than 16,000 teachers and 2 000 kindergarten teachers were dismissed during left-wing governance, and more than 500 schools and 270 kindergarten schools were closed. As a result of the closure and termination policy, 400 municipalities were completely deprived of any educational institution. The aim of the bill before us is to clarify and complement the detailed rules for the more efficient functioning of the renewed vocational training and adult education system, which aims to provide a wider range of tasks and, as my better fellow Member has said, to create a slightly more flexible and easier regulation. The bill aims to respond to new training courses and experience with the functioning of new institutions under the new type of vocational training system, which entered into force from 1 September 2020. The most important changes to the draft legislation before us in the VET system are: in terms of working conditions, the rights of trainers in vocational training are added, the administrative burden of dual training places is reduced, because, unlike previous regulations, the data of VET contracts, which dual trainers are obliged to provide to the State tax authority, are no longer provided by them, but by the State tax authority for the basic registration and study system, so dual trainers are exempted from this additional administrative task. [[11.50]] Public VET provision will be simpler and more transparent through the involvement of non-State VET institutions involved in it, maintenance by combining the current cooperation agreements and the systems and functions of maintenance agreements. The rules on free participation in vocational training are also clarified. In the case of vocational training contracts where the person participating in vocational education and training has a relationship with the vocational training contract for other employment, the obligation to contribute to vocational training may be reduced by 50%. I agree with the suggestion raised by my better fellow Member that this bill contains a number of forward-looking elements, and I am pleased that we can agree on this issue in this way, a number of initiatives to which we have high hopes. It is also important to note that the proposals to reduce the administrative burden on workers in vocational training are also to be welcomed, as I believe that any proposal that reduces the burden of administrative bureaucracy should be supported and supported by the entire Parliament. I would like to thank instructors in vocational training for their work in the past difficult period, when the Hungarian education system has switched to digital online education due to the virus. I would like to thank you for being able to cope in this difficult situation. The current bill will be supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-27-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Since 2010, the Fidesz government has had febrile changes in vocational training and adult education. You say all this is necessary to meet the current requirements of the economy. However, Fidesz seems to have no idea what the Hungarian economy would need. The eloquent evidence of this is the unplanned and hasty transformations. In the last ten to eleven years, you have renamed the types of institutions several times, the vocational schools have become five-year-old technicians, and vocational schools have turned into three-year vocational schools, but for example vocational training centres have also appeared. The instructors are among the new working conditions, the special career model has appeared and a rating system has also been established. Then there was a new VET and adult education law, as well as a new OKJ. It is clear from all this that you have no idea what you should be doing in this area. It seems that Fidesz is all about sound labelling and maintaining uncertainty. This could be fun, but it's not funny at all, because it's human destiny. The damage to all these mindless, mindless changes must be borne by the pupils and teachers involved in vocational training, adult education. They are the ones who find it difficult to adapt to the fidesz confusion of constantly changing rules. Due to the constant transformations, the new, world-changing government ideas, there is no time left for what should be the most spent on: in-depth predictable, deep skills training, improving the professional preparation of instructors, predictable professional and financial appreciation. Once again, what we have warned the Fidesz about many times: the hasty, inadequately implemented amendments to the law are more damaging than beneficial. As part of the VET 4.0 strategy, the current amendment to VET and adult education systems since its September 2020 could have been avoided if the Fidesz majority had adopted it after extensive, meaningful, professional and social consultations. Unfortunately, this was not the case, and the consequence of this is that the law needs to be revised, and not even a year has passed since its adoption. But the saddest thing is that they still haven't done a good job, for example, further simplifying the reporting obligations makes it even more untraceable to follow the course of the student's life and impairs the effectiveness of the track tracking system. In the case of changes to educational records, it is also not acceptable that for nationals of the EEC Member State or third country, tracking is not an objective and has therefore been terminated. New rules for the selection and assignment of the Director have been introduced in the case of State Vocational Training Institutions. In the case of a new institution, for example, the Director may be trusted without a tender and the mandate may not exceed the last day of the next academic year. Here again, once again, the government corrects a mistake when it raises the previously erroneous rule of public education so that after restructuring and restructuring, a one - year executive commission can be given. It is also regrettable that, in terms of working conditions, the rights of trainers in vocational training are only now being added to the right to work in safe and healthy conditions. This also shows how Fidesz does not care about securing the right job conditions for working people. It is proposed that participants in vocational education and training should once again be eligible for student IDs, but this issue could have been resolved in the new legislation by means of a more thorough legislative preparation. In particular, because of the fact that before the amendments entered into force in 2020, there was a student ID for the persons concerned. You can see, therefore, that this amendment can be termed a subsequent patchwork. Fidesz and KDNP have been ruling for 11 years, but in that time they seem to have only learned to steal and not to legislate on a professional basis. We sincerely hope that these changes will not cause any more trouble than they have done before. From the spring of 2022, they can say goodbye to this problem, along with government. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-27-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zoltán Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am glad that I am coming after Mrs Gurmai Zita, because I will pick up where she left off. We see that the proposal before us amends more than 50 paragraphs of the VET Act, which was gradually introduced from January 2020. Here, perhaps, a little pride comes out of my voice, and the law, to a large extent, corrects errors that the opposition, in addition to the profession, has already drawn attention to in the debate on the proposal. One such clarification is, for example, to put back into the law the part that provides free education for pupils with multiple disadvantages, special needs or disabilities. Although this was already regulated by law, for some reason it was left out of the new vocational training law, and later it was provided only at regulation level. We also called attention to this mistake in the debate on the law, but of course I don't have to say that this has been swept off. It is also just now being clarified that the rules on adult training may not be applied differently in the case of religious and, for example, rehabilitation training in prison. From now on, programmes that trigger previous vocational training curricula will only be recommended. In the past, it has become a scandal that the programmes are full of mistakes, but now they are not improving them, but leaving this work to schools. However, to say a positive change, students in school adult education will now be entitled to, for example, student IDs, regardless of age. The dual training system could be strengthened by the fact that companies that undertake to prepare students in practice could receive a tax allowance of HUF 250 000 per student per month. However, what's interesting is that according to the news, there was an unusually strong criticism, among other things, from the Chamber. In their view, the number of dual agreements between schools, pupils and businesses has fallen to an unprecedented extent, which could even predict that the practical activities of tens of thousands of students at national level will have to be solved by schools. The financial implications of this, however, are no longer reflected in the budget of the centres. [[12.00]] In addition, it can be seen that the preparation of a statistical illusion, according to which many students would be involved in dual training on paper, but in fact, students would continue to do their practical activities in school workshops, while, from a accounting and documentary point of view, they do their dual exercises at an independent training centre, the sectoral training centres. This, in turn, is obviously a hoax. What is a huge problem is that the proposal only improves some of the mistakes of a fundamentally inadequate law now, even though we can see very well that this entire coat should be re-buttoned. Education, we are all aware of it, honourable government representatives, despite saying anything else, is the stepchild of the Orbán government, and vocational training is the most disadvantaged. This is the third completely different concept in 11 years. This was also introduced without consultation, preparation and due consideration in 2020. And we can see that the institutions have been paying the price ever since, and they're trying to save what can be saved, but that doesn't make the system any good, at most less bad. And obviously, what else can I say than that we are fully aware that, under the leadership of Klára Dobrev, the new government will also fix vocational training, not in terms of power, but in listening to the participants in vocational training, accepting their ideas. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-05-27-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It will now be the voice of the minority spokesperson invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mrs Brigitta Superák, Ukrainian minority speaker, who begins her speech in her ethnic language and then continues to translate it. Here you are, Madam Speaker, the floor is yours.
u2021-05-27-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ депутати, представники нацΓональних меншин! ШановнΓ ДержавнΓ Збори! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the floor, Dear House, The subject of my speech is T/16204. Legislative amendment of certain laws relating to vocational training and adult education. At its meeting on 17 May 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary held the T/16204, on the amendment of certain laws in relation to vocational training and adult education. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The Committee did not make a Commission amendment and concluded the detailed discussion of the bill without its adoption. T/16204. Bill T/7843 in 2019. Bill No. 1 is also included as a minority item on the agenda of the spring session of the Parliament. As is well known to all of us, there is a significant shortage of professionals in the labour market. The economic importance of this is expressed by the leaders of economic operators, experts and organisations active in the field of representation. Understandably, this is what the government must respond to and respond to. In addition to the economic impact, however, it is important and essential to involve the education sector in the process of change in order to achieve the desired objective. It depends only on the flexibility and rapid response of education training to the timely availability of sufficient and quality professionals, so that a shortage of professionals does not cause serious damage to the economy or lead to the exodus of operators in the relevant economic sector. Our world is changing so quickly, as is the need for professionals, that in many areas today there is no job or job that current high school students, middle-level learners, will have to fill if they want to be in the world of work. Most of the jobs, jobs and tasks currently known are eliminated, sometimes even the new ones that are demanding are created, or all of them are changed, transformed, and supplemented and modified by the achievements of technical development. Think about what the teachers, parents, children and countless jobs have had to face in the last year alone because of the challenges of the pandemic. They have learned, we have learned the use of Internet media and software, we have mastered image transfer, document sending, reading, keeping presentations in real time, in an interactive way. The Parliament passed the VET Act in 2019 and now we have it amended. Today, we have had some experience of putting adopted legislation into practice. It is in our common interest that the systems of vocational training and adult training continue to be renewed because they need to adapt to environmental changes and technical developments. Our common goal is to ensure that the participants in the vocational training system offer and receive competitive knowledge and real professional experience, with a focus on learning practical skills. For us nationalities, however, training professionals who speak ethnic language at the age level remains a priority. So it is important for us that students, parents, future employers acquire and receive competitive professional knowledge in such a way that, in addition to quality and adequate vocational training, they also learn the language of nationality, using it in addition to the profession in the language, keeping their knowledge fresh, so that they can later participate in the education and education of the new generation of national experts. The acquisition of modern knowledge and professional knowledge based on market needs, the acquisition of quality education, the fair standing as a good professional are also essential for the young people of our ethnic communities. However, there is no need to think at institutional or maintenance level when examining the ethnic aspects of a bill. Otherwise, there are also nationalities involved in the legislative proposals discussed as non-ethnic points, as it is enough to think only of students of ethnic origin who are involved in vocational training. Many children, students and students belonging to a minority community participated in the Hungarian education system without attending an institution maintained by nationality or nationality. Thus, the education of vocational training with a well-controlled school system that provides competitive knowledge, and of well-trained professionals who speak the language of nationality is also essential for ethnic communities in Hungary today. Let me mention the tourism sector as a breakout point. There are national education and education institutions where this already works, while others plan or try to establish it. If our lives return to normal and a large number of tourists come to the country again, experts speaking ethnic language may have an advantage in some geographical regions. When we talk about professional training, our objective is not to provide professional supplies. If there is a community that now, regardless of the causes, is struggling with a professional replacement problem, then we can say that nationalities are such communities. [[12.10]] Therefore, it is essential for ethnic communities to address professional training, including professional recruitment. Allow me to mention a specific area, which is expected to be resolved by the majority of Hungarian ethnicities. This is the need to develop and introduce professional training in the field of ethnic media and to build a scholarship system to support it. In the original bill, the Parliament's Committee of Nationalities of Hungary also presented a number of amendments to the original bill, which directly affect the interests of nationality. These were supported by this House. As I said at the beginning of my speech, our committee did not make any amendments to the text of the bill, but I think it is important to draw attention to the interests of nationality in some points. The bill is 10. Paragraph 2 adds a new point 6a to the 2019 LXXX on vocational training. Law 7 which is intended to introduce the concept of a vocational education and training textbook. In this context, I would like to emphasise and draw attention to the need to publish certain textbooks in ethnic language. When drawing up the textbook list, the relevant staff should also take into account this possibility, while guaranteeing the relevant rights of nationalities. Article 11 of the bill on the subject. § 2 of the Act contains provisions amending the programme plan. The section provides for the possibility that the professional programme of a religious legal person or a vocational training institution established or maintained by a religious association may include knowledge appropriate to the credit of that religion. As an analogy, I think that there is a clear possibility for the national minority maintainer to include nationality knowledge in the programme plan. In relation to one of the points mentioned above, I note that the T/16204. Legislative bill No.12. Article 15 of the Act on Vocational Training It amends the provisions of §8 of the Act. And for this stage, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The diploma, the professional certificate and the certificate of qualification shall be given the title. My experience shows that the issue of official documents in the language of nationality is increasingly important for the members of our nationalities. National authorities have provided assistance and have taken an active role in the issue of official documents in their mother tongue, nationality language. Let us consider that a student who has successfully completed vocational training, who is a member of one of our ethnic communities, may request the issue of his diploma and certificate in nationality language. You can do this regardless of who is the maintainer of the institution you visit. This is not utopia, it is only an opportunity that the legislator can count on when it regulates the issue of a diploma, a professional certificate and a certificate of qualification in the legislative process. The bill is 26. Article 105 of the VET Act lists organisations exempted from payment of the VET contribution. In more detail than in the previous section of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, this Regulation should therefore be amended accordingly. This list does not include minority self-governments, despite the fact that local self-governments are placed in an exception zone in accordance with point (a). As the rules on local authorities should also apply to national authorities unless there are different rules, we hope that this will not be a practical problem. However, the application of the law may be made difficult by the fact that nationality authorities are not listed in the list. Thus, they can refer to a specific place of law, not directly, but only to the analogy of the legislation on local authorities. The specific practices I have formulated and what I have said have been raised in the context of a bill on a nationality agenda, regardless of the fact that the nationality committee has not made an amendment. In any case, I hope that I have highlighted in my speech the context in which it is necessary to take into account the interests of nationality in the legislative process. Thank you very much for your attention. Дякуņза увагу! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-58	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Maria Kállai, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, I think that the proposal before us, of course, also brings up memories in left-wing Members, immediately gives us the opportunity to have a set of reflexes,, How is it not good? Let's put it in a word called "The Worms of the World." There's one thing I want to tell you. If we look back over the last ten years, we can see the extent to which the economy itself has undergone changes. Today, a young person does not know that 20 years from now, as a woman who spoke, she expressed exactly the thoughts that brought the two-minute woman to life that she was going to do. There are advantages, disadvantages, that anyone who has ever studied as a carpenter may not be a carpenter in ten years' time. I very much welcome, among the content aspects, the sector-oriented thinking that provides the possibility of doing this in the most flexible way, offering the most sophisticated palette. Professionally, it is possible to argue that it is demand-driven, supply-driven. Let us note that the economy is setting out its needs. Of course, and for that reason only in two minutes, this is not the place to debate what we think of family, individual interest, individual tradition and so forth with a pedagogical approach, pedagogical philosophy. I did not say in my introduction that this is one of the individual visions and the strength of the economy. The other: obviously, creating a chance is also a story, as the workshop school itself, the Dobbantó program itself, is a series of programs that help create a chance that can be constantly focused, and I don't know how there would be a moment when I could be satisfied as a teacher, say, with a five. So there is the possibility of continuous improvement. I think we cannot say that nothing has happened in the last ten years. The other is that I thank you for the work of the vocational training centers where you can find responsible management, fair partnership, continuous construction, cleanliness, order in thoughts, work and relationships. Thank you very much. I live in this country. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now we're going to have a proper speech. Once again, Mr Ander Balázs, from the Jobbik Group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, let's see. My fellow Member Nacsa also spoke here about the times before 2010. We, I had nothing to do with that. We've criticized enough, by the way. So if he could do that, then let us also refer back to what has been going on in this country since 2010. According to István Polónyi's calculations, for example, in 2010-11 there was 46 percent withdrawal from the vocational training system, which this sector has not been able to recover from since then. And now you can come here with a bill like that. I've looked at it, like, ten positives of that, and I've spoken in support of them, but let the opposition have the right to refer you back to these things. Now, this extraction was here for all the original sin, let's just say, its source. And the other is that they dragged this sector back and forth, and they dumbed it down on the way. That is what I referred to when, let's say, I was talking about competitive education and you were talking about it. But if it's such a dumb education, it raises questions about how it's going to happen in practice, in reality, because we don't think it's going to happen in any way. I'd like to quote statistical data again. [[12.20]] If you look at the proportion of time spent in school among the population around 25 years of age in Hungary, you will see that it is 11.1 years. This is even more than a year in Slovakia, and then I could go all the way to Finland, where we are talking 14.2 years. Well, that's why they're more competitive, let's say, the Finns are more competitive than Hungarians, because they have an extra 3 years advantage, they have an advantage in schooling and schooling. And that is why we say that from here, from the benches of Jobbik, the concept in which we think is nothing more than a 12-year-old general training cycle, which could then be built on everything, including the competitiveness of Hungary. There's a conceptual difference between us and the government side. We say that education is indeed the best, the most profitable investment, and we always say that it must be invested from real to the earliest date, because it is a general rule of fist that the rate of return is falling sharply. What am I talking about? The fact that there are very, very good things here, for example, that an adult who wants a new profession and enrolls in such a vocational school, for example, can get a student ID. This obviously requires resources from the state. They'll give it to you. Great, we will support it, but I would like at least to stress that earlier dates should also be considered, and then I would like to draw attention to the proposals for amending the budget that they have been kind enough to sweep from the pro-government side again and for many times this year, to throw into the trash. For example, I could refer here to the increased state support of the "Secure Start" children's homes or to the help of the school programme. Because if you look at what kind of deficiency... obviously you can't replace it, because it's not that schools will replace vocational training or any form of education at all, it's an additional step. But if we look at the demand for this in Hungary, and the Hungarian state supports it, we see that 2 billion is a few hundred million forints. And then let me be demagog, by the way, but let's say this is the 500-metre section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway? And if we put these two things side by side, which is important... But then I say, I see that Mr. Secretary of State has come to his head, and I do not want to provoke him, with the Budapest-Belgrád railway, but let me say that the HUF 54 billion spent on renovating the MNB's headquarters, let me bring here and the need for resources from which the expansion of the "Secure Start" children's homes, or the increased support of the school programme from the state side. Well, it wouldn't cost a fraction of that, and how many thousands of lives could be saved, so that Zoltán Pokorni wouldn't have to tell me that these kids were going to the pool. Well, when I bring up things like that, I usually refer to them. And there are, by the way, modernisation islands in Hungary that you so much like to refer to, say, Győr in connection with the Audi or Kecskemét, Mercedes. Yes, we do, but let us bring in the voice of Hungary which is more shadowy here, because when I, say, talked about children with SNI or multiple underprivileged children and children with disabilities, and at all difficult pedagogical situations, I used to quote the rural districts that have happened in South Somogy, the case where the 7th grader, otherwise 17-year-old negro, abused the teacher in an unrated, obscene tone, threatened, took off one of her masks, coughed in her face, that she would now infect her well, and the other one approached the teacher's face with a burning lighter. Well, usually these kids, if they don't crumble in the meantime, end up in educational institutions like those I've been talking about here, and if there's no greater public attention to that, then I don't know what the social cost will be, because society will have to pay for it sooner or later. So, even if they crumble down and disappear from there, and they don't make the air in these schools any more, by the way, by promoting spontaneous segregation many times, that everyone, regardless of their origin, should escape from there the child who wants to do good for his daughter and son, and so these educational institutions often become, so to speak, pedagogical, so I say that money, steeds and weapons should be available to manage these situations somehow, because, as shown in the accompanying diagram, such things happen. And in many cases, these are even covered up because it gives the school a bad look, and then let's not talk about it, as if the problem would automatically disappear if we didn't talk about these things. It's not gonna stop. It's increasing, it's stacking, it's pus under the carpet, and it's gonna explode sometime, and it's gonna be horrible. Once again, I would like to emphasise the price that society has to pay... That's why it would be good to intervene early, and that's why it would be good to have more attention in the pro-government benches to bring in such a bill, in which there are many good things, there really are a lot of good things in it, then somehow there should be a foundation. So don't build this body on sand, because it's going to collapse very easily, and these problems are coming up, and how can I put it? Hungary and the near future of the sky are embarrassing there, because they are not good for competitiveness and for many others. So the importance of prevention would also be a primary step here. 'Cause if this is going on anyway, and it's a little different, but if we were talking about competitiveness in other respects, let me bring you one more thing. The education system, which is currently in Hungary, I would like to quote Magdolna Csath, I hope that she will not be excommunicated for this, and then again they do not say that there is some evil opposition issue, she also said that she is promoting the training of people with hammers. However, if Hungarian workers are banished to the bottom of global value chains of global multi-business companies in such a way that children, young people, are made into hammers, they will certainly not be able to produce great added value, and this will not be the model of competitiveness, this will be the colonial model, which is very, very uncompetitive, or at least competitive with Bulgaria or Romania. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] Thank you, fellow Member. And another one. Congresswoman Kállai has indicated that this system must be flexible. Not only must this system be flexible, and it has rightly been pointed out by the congresswoman that the world is changing and the world is changing at a startling speed. Let's say my big group boy, like 60 percent of his contemporaries, is likely to work in a profession that doesn't even exist yet. But how to complete this, and how to meet the requirements of lifelong learning; and t-learning, and e-learning, and m-learning to bring such things here? By ensuring that initial education is very stable and equips them with the competences needed to cope with the challenges of the decades ahead and to create a prosperous, happy and truly competitive Hungary. We don't really see that. However, at the end of what I have to say, I would like to say once again that what has been brought here really improves in many respects the sad situation that I or my former colleagues are encountering every day within the vocational training system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2021-05-27-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Pósán has also applied for a proper speech from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.30]]
u2021-05-27-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just a few comments to address the mistakes that have been made. On the one hand, it has been said that the number of dual agreements has fallen greatly and that this is an eloquent proof that there are serious problems in vocational training here. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, unfortunately, Covid, the pandemic, has a two-year, nearly two-year history when children have not even gone to school, let alone to workshops and companies. So it is good to treat these circumstances in place and talk about reality. Another thing that should be noted for all those who visit the end of the world in the field of vocational education and training: statistics from recent years show that there has been a significant increase in the number of applicants for vocational training, the number of students in vocational training. This figure has grown so much that, compared to previous trends, there are more people here now compared to high schools. That is why, my fellow Members, is certainly a sign, and I do not believe that the reason why they are going to vocational training is because they want to experience the infatuation of demise there. It's the opposite. Vocational training is undergoing a major renewal, and it is indeed the case that, if necessary, even every six months, it is necessary to touch the legislative environment if it so happens. I'll give you a very simple example, and then I think it'll be clear. For example, it is quite right for health care professionals to be able to participate in training, in cooperation with universities, which can be accounted for as credits for some of the training courses at a later stage or in higher education institutions. Please, if we agree with the aim of this, then it is good to know that, for example, we will have to touch the Higher Education Act, the Credit Calculation Act, and we could put it nicely. So anyone who thinks that the frequent approach to such questions is a sign of incompetence and haste, as Congresswoman Zita Gurmai said, is very wrong. But I am not surprised at that, because Zita Gurmai never had anything to do with vocational training, nor did Congressman Varga. I'm sorry, in his case, it's true that he studied as a TV mechanic 40 years earlier, you might know that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-27-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Tamás Schanda, to make a final statement. Yes, he wishes and responds to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, first of all, to thank you for what has been said in this debate, but do not go without saying what honourable Members and gentlemen have said in favour of the bill. It is important not to hang on to issues that may be important for the adoption of the bill. On the one hand, we thank Mrs Kállai for her confirmation. What I would like to underline here from what the Member said is that it is indeed a fine-tuning which is the main reason and the main purpose of which is to ensure that relations with economic operators can continue to improve in the context of the vocational training system. This is also particularly important because we really want to train young people who are able to survive in the labour market, and there can be no other purpose for an education system than for young Hungarians to be more successful, successful, whether in their lives or otherwise in the labour market. In order to do this, we need to be able to provide them with suitable professions, appropriate trainings, and if there are signals from economic operators, it is indeed our duty to present the relevant legislative amendment to Parliament. Mr Ander mentioned a number of topics, including criticism of the government's policy on vocational training, which I find difficult to accept, because it seems to me that he has forgotten not only that, but the vast majority of left-wing Members have also forgotten the state in which the education system had to be taken over in Hungary in 2010, including the system of vocational training. That was a moral and economic bankruptcy situation in the field of education. So I think that all critical sentences should be appreciated in this context. Mr Ander has also made an attempt to do this, but unfortunately I must say that it is therefore particularly sad if we agree with the results of the pre-2010 education policy that you are working to bring the education policy of Gyurcsány back to Hungary. The fact is, however, that we have clarified the directions of vocational training, as VET 4.0 clearly contains the directions set out, the strategic objectives, and it is the legislative breakdown of this which has also happened, and it is now possible for the Honourable Parliament to clarify that. But let me also draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament that this was also the subject of any criticism of the fact that various ministries were involved in vocational training, in 2018, a significant part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs was transferred to the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, which operates as a Ministry of Economic Affairs, but the excellent head of the area, Deputy State Secretary Gábor Pölöskei, carried out this task in front of him and then continues to perform this task. He's the one who's been running this area with his coworkers for maybe five years now. I believe that only thanks and compliments are due to Madam Secretary of State. What was also expressed as criticism, but I have to read it as a compliment, and in this connection it is worth saying a few sentences, that is the way to higher education. It is precisely the system of techniques, it is the system of new vocational training that makes it easier and easier and easier to get from vocational training to higher education. The system of techniques, I think, is clear and clear, and it is a good decision for everyone in this regard, because young people will get a diploma and gain a profession at the same time, and they will indeed be more easily able to stand their place during their higher education studies. Not to mention the training that we are also working on to launch, where the higher education institution, in cooperation with the technology, will really be able to count on the skills learned in the technical field during the course of higher education. Student loans were mentioned, loans related to adult education. That's an important question. We believe that Hungarian people should be helped to participate in adult education, and there are state aids, various programmes that allow free adult education, but it is important that we still allow credit systems supporting livelihoods to work. On the other hand, if a person wants to learn unsupported training, he should also be able to choose an otherwise preferential credit product, which is also supported by the fact that all the benefits that are otherwise included in the student loan system, even the release of the mother's credit, appear here and in this credit product. Therefore, it is definitely a matter of support, and I therefore believe that this measure can be supported with an easy heart. The question of future career choice has been discussed. I am pleased to report that this is precisely what the transformation of the vocational training system is about, among other things, because first, only young people choose a sector and then choose a profession. But we think that it is important for everyone to see and understand the significance of this, so it is important that it is also clear to Mr Ander that this is one of the most important changes in the area of vocational training, by the way. There was a very important topic, the question of SNI students. It is important to draw attention here to the fact that we are, I believe, putting energy into this area of unprecedented size. Guidance year, Drumbantó program, workshop school, just to give you a few systemic examples of these very young people, these students. [[12.40]] Not to mention the Lookout Piarista Center in Vác, where, together with the piarist order of serious educational traditions, I say not only because I am a piarist alumni, but together with the piarist order with considerable educational experience, we implement methodological developments that can facilitate the integration of SNI students. I could also mention the scholarship programs here. There is an unprecedented amount of scholarship in the world of vocational training. Besides, there is a big difference from before 2010 that there were no scholarships at the time, there was no wage in vocational training now in the case of dual training, and now we have made this possible, helping young people, by the way. I must admit, I personally took the sentences of Congresswoman Gurmai very hard because I had the opportunity to argue in Parliament on numerous occasions with Mrs Gurmai, and in most cases it was possible to have a serious intellectual debate with a woman representing the bill, who was actually dealing with the bill, and we were able to have a substantive debate, but this was a quite amazing Gyurcsányi sheet music, which she has read here. He asked for the lack of vision, while it was clear and clear, for account, for things that the civil national government had done in the world of education and vocational training, and the mistakes of the completely messed up left-wing government had to be corrected. I really didn't understand those sentences of the Congresswoman and what that anger was and what that comment was about. It was a net political resolution, while this is the debate of a professional bill. I'd like to say one sentence, though: he criticized the changes. This is about the fact that there are interrelated changes, precisely because this is what we call development and development. I would really just like to say to Congressman Varga that the importance of dual training has been mentioned, the importance of dual training cannot be emphasised enough, and he has asked us in the case of dual training, why there is no more and more training. You've already had some answers here. So we've been fighting Covid for a year. Not only are we fighting Covid, we are not the only ones in masks in Parliament, but if he had seen market players or talked to someone from the real economy once, he would see that the last year was not necessarily about long-term training agreements for companies. There's an example of that, by the way. Some have just applied because they see that they will need this, but after a year like this, I find it a little unworthy of us, along with the fact that the dual training system is my position and, in my opinion, will be significantly strengthened in the next period, as there are already signs of labour shortages in certain areas of the labour market. Therefore, when they perceive this, companies are much more committed to participating in this development programme, as it becomes evident to them that it is in their elemental interest to participate in the vocational training system. We've been talking about giving you enough support. I have been trying to extract from Congressman Varga's sentences that we have given companies enough support to participate in dual training. This is a very difficult question, to hit it so that we don't give too little, it's worth it, let's not give too much, so let's not let those living instructors in because they want to get extra profit from it. That's a very difficult question. I think we've been able to hit this more or less, and I'm proud that we've been able to hit this. I would definitely be careful not to create a regulation where non-real market players want to make money by spending government support for vocational training on appearances. We shouldn't do that, we wouldn't even suggest that. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a comparison with the period before 2010 has indeed been made several times, not from a national civil side, but from the other side, which is completely incomprehensible to us. But let us record, once and for all, that there was no scholarship at the time, that there was no clear vision of the future, that there was no lack of resources, that they were not now; that there were no wage increases such as those achieved in vocational training. We remember that we were able to raise the wages of trainers in vocational training by 30 percent. There were no two free professions and a free vocational training, there was no dual training, and much else could be classified. Instead, it was chaos, financial deficiencies and a management crisis. This was what marked the period before 10th, which is what we had to transform, and I ask the Parliament to continue to assist in this development work, and to support this bill that lies before you. It will be better for the Hungarian vocational training system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-27-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted tomorrow, or Friday, at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the presentation of the Foundation for the University of Fudan for Hungary and the Fund for the University of Fudan until closure. Government referral T/16225. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian government is committed to encouraging the entire system of Hungarian higher education and all its actors, students, teachers and researchers to achieve the most successful results that can trigger recognition at international level. Our priority is to ensure that universities play a central role in domestic R &amp; D and innovation, while strengthening their corporate and international relations. By increasing the international competitiveness and educational standards of Hungarian universities, Hungary's role as a regional knowledge centre can be further strengthened, which is in the common interest of all Hungarian people and all Hungarian businesses. That is why we believe it is necessary to support by all means that as many scientific achievements as possible appear in our country and that as many scientists as possible should arrive in Hungary and do creative work with us. In proportion to this, as many Hungarian students, researchers and educators can receive outstanding training and gain outstanding knowledge at global level. With the appearance of Fudan University in Hungary, you will be able to learn from the world leaders at home. Dear Parliament, Hungary needs international universities, we all know the focus of the economy is moving to the East, so we are also opening up to the East. Dear Parliament, Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The outstanding politician of the century, József Eötvös, gave orders to see! No one walks straight with their eyes blindfolded. This is why it is important to make the most important decisions with ambitious goals, with a view to changing the world. [[12.50]] We all know that there is a competition in the world for talent and a high level of knowledge. Large and rich countries have long lived with scientific attractions more uglyly speaking with the brain drain, since all countries have been interested in improving their relationship with the world's scientific elite. Investing in knowledge today is the most rewarding. For several decades, universities have been a trend among higher education institutions to set up campus abroad. While 82 of these foreign campuses were recorded around the world in 2006, their number has already increased to 305 by 2020, so it is an international process, and in connection with this process, the Chinese institutions have established a number of university centres in Asia, but their European appearance was slower, initially only with the establishment of institutions within foreign universities. We can consider it symbolic, Honourable Parliament, the point at which Beijing University opened its own independent campus in the United Kingdom in 2018. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Prime Minister and the Chinese head of state agreed to set up a Chinese-Hungarian university in Hungary in 2014. The institution still has joint training, i.e. Fudan with the Corvinus University of Budapest. A newly created Chinese-Hungarian university in the region can be institutionalized in Budapest, so that Hungarian and Central European students can learn from one of the best elite universities in the world by studying in Budapest. Dear Parliament, The University of Fudan has close links with nearly three hundred prestigious higher education institutions from over 40 countries around the world, including the most prestigious Western universities such as MIT or London School of Economics, so it can be seen that it is also related to prestigious institutions, the best universities in the world, and, in this context, it is particularly significant scientific diplomacy success that the Fudan University, the 34th best university in the world, is the first to launch its own foreign-place training in Hungary. Dear Parliament, The university is scheduled to launch four faculties: Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences and Engineering, Faculty of Public Policy and Business, and Faculty of Medicine. Dear Parliament, Hungarian universities can start cooperation relationships, joint research and joint training with one of the best universities in the world, which will allow them to advance the international rankings themselves. Teachers have the opportunity to get into the international scientific cycle more easily through projects related to Fudan University, and perhaps even more important, and Hungarian young people will be able to learn from internationally recognised professors at home in their homeland. Every year at Fudan University foreign state leaders, Nobel Prize winner economists and founders and leaders of foreign corporations visit. The Hungarian campus of the University of Fudan allows Budapest to be channeled between the world's prestigious authorities and the destinations of Nobel Prize-winning research professors. The University of Fudan will also attract talented young people in Europe, and will also enable cooperation and further develop and support economic relations between China and Hungary. Dear Parliament, With the mutually supportive development of the Fudan University and the student city, a highly modern student district and university city can be created at European level, home to more than ten thousand students. The complex development of the southern city gate is suitable for the simultaneous reception of the student city and the University of Fudan, and the planned developments here will flourish the neglected rust area and transform it into a vibrant, innovative city district with a significant green area, so besides university citizens, besides Hungarian young people, Budapest will enjoy the development of the project. Dear Parliament, In its decision on the operating and maintenance model of the university, the government provided for the establishment of the Foundation for the University of Fudan Hungary, on the one hand, and the tasks related to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the university. The necessary asset allocation may be made with the provisions of this bill. Dear Parliament, The opportunity must always be taken and be on the side of quality, and small faith and mediocrity must be stopped. Kunó Klebelsberg put it this way, and I quote: At a time of decline, some people, in good faith and instinctively, are going after the very factors that represent the positive idea, which are the barriers to the further spread of decline. Since culture is the key to the growth of new life and new development even after major disasters, declining ages are necessarily anti-cultural, and whose souls are truly overwhelmed by the spirit of declining ages, according to world history, they go directly against culture. We do not do this, that is what I propose, Honourable Parliament, because the strengthening of our country and increasing its competitiveness are clearly our common goal and task. I therefore ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Congressman Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of Parliament, has indicated his wish to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that Mr Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of Parliament, will be able to hold the meeting during the further discussion of the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Pósán. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Education cooperation with China is not new, but previous left-wing governments have already started a policy in this direction, so it is safe to say that there is a kind of political continuity here. So my first point is, I don't even understand why this intense tension is after all. István Ujhelyi, currently a socialist MEP, said, as the left-wing vice-president of the Hungarian Parliament, that the different political arrangements of China and the European Union in the field of international higher education do not have to cause conflict. When the Confucius Institute opened in Szeged, Mayor László Botka emphasized that it was a special trust capital for Chinese investors if such an institution was operating in a city, the already mentioned István Ujhelyi had a major role to play. There are currently five Confucius Institutes and two Confucius classrooms in Hungary in the field of culture and education, and this is the fourth place in Hungary between the Central and Eastern European countries, so we have to say that Romania, Bulgaria and Poland are further ahead compared to Hungary, and they have much more Chinese educational relations in this area. [[13.00]] In 2016, two schools in Hungarian-China were converted into high schools, while ten universities in China offer Hungarian training programmes. In 2019 the Corvinus University of Budapest, supported by the Hungarian National Bank, signed an agreement with Fudan University on a joint training programme. Hungarian-Chinese cooperation in education has therefore a long history, a history across left and right-wing governments. It is therefore frivolous and ridiculous that the opposition claim that the Chinese would install a dangerous spy centre on the banks of the Danube by creating Fudan's campus in Budapest. Since the change of regime, foreign businesses can be established in Hungary. If a secret service wants to build positions for that purpose, it could have done that a long time ago. But the Confucius Institutes could or could have been able to collect information long before, not just here, but almost all over the world. Today's left alone sees a national security risk in creating a university campus. Interestingly, when Fudan set up a business management school in Norway in 1996 with Europe's second largest business college, Norwegian Business School, the Norwegians saw not a risk to national security, but very serious opportunities. This business management school was inaugurated by the then Norwegian head of government, Gro Harlem Brundtland. It seems more important for the Hungarian left to produce a political product from the issue of Fudan's planned campus for Hungary than to assess its benefits and benefits. But it is also possible that the latter is beyond his spiritual ability and is only capable of reproach and hatred. Therefore, they also attack Fudan's establishment in Budapest on ideological grounds and claim that there they will spread communist ideology. Well, Fudanon has studied and is currently studying Hungarian students, and they have studied and are currently studying in Western Europe, and American students are also learning with a nice number. It is consistently claimed that this type of ideological influence is much smaller than in many higher education institutions in Hungary, Europe or the United States. America, North America, the United States in this regard, I think that today it is right to highlight it in a context that would be linked to universities with virtually nothing to do with study issues, see gender theories and such other types of transsexual rights, and the rest and so on. Today, the Western world is full of Fudan cooperation, as the Secretary of State has said, because Fudan is a truly world-class educational institution that is not similar to that in Eastern Central Europe, but in the Western world there are only a few. As has been said, he is now 34th in the international ranking. By the way, it's amazing to see how fast Fudan has achieved this result, it really has to be said that in practically a few years. He has 33,000 students, 300 research centers, has a relationship with almost 300 universities outside China, and has some kind of exchange with 130 universities, so he has very close cooperation. On behalf of the Secretary of State, there are two examples, but allow me to say a little bit more about what kind of relationships these are, to show where the Fudan should be placed in the international higher education space. In addition to the MIT mentioned above, he is associated with Harvard, Yale, University of California, Maryland, Connecticut University; Birmingham, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Nottingham universities in Great Britain; University of Melbourne, New South Wales and Queensland in Australia; Freie Universitätt in Berlin in Germany, universities in Thübingen, Cologne, Konstanzi, Goethe Universitättel in Frankfurt; five Danish, 6 Finnish, 6 Norwegian, 6 Swedish, 1 Icelandic partner institutions in Scandinavia; and his partner is the Catholic University of Leuven, the University of Dublin, the University of Zurich, the McMaster University in Canada, the Austrian Business College in Salzburg. In 2008, Fudan founded the Fudan University Foundation for Education and Development in New York. It seems, therefore, that it is okay for the Hungarian left to have the US or the leading universities of the European Union cooperate with the University of Fudan in China, but when Hungary does so, they claim that we have made a deal with the devil. The Western countries had established their trade, scientific, educational and cultural relations with China already in the 1980s, and then the ideological influence efforts had a much greater chance and weight than they do today, and they openly or in the background are still entering into new cooperation agreements. Whether you like it or not, China will still be at the top of the world for decades to come. A quarter of the world's scientists are Chinese. Thanks to Fudan's campus in Budapest, Hungary can become a regional knowledge centre, which can significantly increase and increase the competitiveness of Hungarian higher education. But it can also benefit Hungarian economic development in other respects. As in China, our university will attract advanced technology because Fudan in China lives in symbiosis with technological development centers. The Fudan campus planned for Budapest against the lies on the left will not be some kind of giga university, with a number of students around 5-6-7,000. The distribution of these is planned: one third of them are Chinese, one third are from other foreign countries, from the West and the East, and one third can be Hungarian students. In comparison to the size of the university: in Hungary, the University of Technology, Debrecen, has 30,000 students roughly, Pécs, Szeged 20-25 thousand. So if Fudan is a Hungarian campus giga university, I have to say that our home universities are quite simply galactic universities, or I don't know what kind of sign to use for it. So it's good to treat these in place. Fudan's campus in Budapest will attract many foreign students to the Hungarian capital both from the West and from the East, and these students will spend money in Budapest and spend a lot of money. When the left is attacking this whole project, it also attacks the new revenue potential of the services sector in Budapest, it is attacking the opportunities of families who are living out of it or are able to gain new opportunities in the service sector. But it's also attacking SOTE, Semmelweis. Let us not forget that the medical training that Fudan is planning is linked to the clinics in Hungary, they are not building a clinic, they are only building theoretical trainings, they need to be able to implement it somewhere in practice, so the Fudan campus in Budapest will have to conclude a cooperation agreement, for example, with SOTE, in order to achieve meaningful and competitive medical training. So we see, if we look at only these examples, that in many respects they are investments and project ideas with advantages in Budapest and Hungary. Just as the Sziget Festival, Volt or Campus Festival is a driving name for festival tourism, Budapest can now make a very serious draw name in academic and educational mobility with Fudan's campus here, which also gives Hungary a significant competitive advantage and a stronger position for Hungarian development. In order to improve Hungary's long-term development and the quality and competitiveness of higher education in Hungary, please support the proposed legislation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-27-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, as I have already said, is Mr Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of Parliament, who is speaking from here on the platform. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-71	With all due respect, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Allow me to express, on four points, the concerns about the bill before us, which we are seeing very serious question marks in the implementation of this project, and I hope that the technical aspects described in detail will also convince my fellow Members. Since education and higher education are particularly high-priority national strategy issues for us, the EPP Jobbik, we will also analyse this issue in very detail through these glasses. [[13.10]] The four points are as follows: on the one hand, I will present our concerns about the form and content of the proposal, secondly, our concerns about the economy of the project, thirdly our concerns about university and science policy, and fourthly our concerns about the international and foreign policy dimension. Once again, this is also important because the lead speaker of Fidesz, my fellow Member, Pósán, has already said in advance what the opinion of the left-wing factions will look like. I would have thought it would have been better if my fellow Member had waited for the factions, let's say the lead speakers, on this matter, but I am very pleased to have the opinion of Jobbik, the only right-wing, Christian-social party of the opposition, as well. So form and content. Tuesday night, at 23:37 p.m., this proposal appeared at ParLex. Well, as vice-president of the Parliament, I also think that if something violates the authority of the Parliament and the authority of its Members, this Fidesz method is very offensive, my fellow Members, that you will fill it at 23 hours and 37 minutes at night. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Rules of the House!]] I think that when we have to decide on a project of this magnitude, we can expect to have a discussion with all the relevant players who then have to suffer this major issue. How Minister Palkovics used to carry out projects shows how Fidesz's activities against knowledge and intellectuals took place in the last year. So if we look at the talks of the Minister on this matter, if we look at his speeches, then there is the same method, which began in the separation of the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, continued in the revamping of the university world, and there is a form of foundation here again. Since I have told you so many times, I will not tell you again in detail what the big problem with such a form of foundation is: in particular, once again, some of the Hungarian national wealth will be decided in practically all its elements by a foundation and a curatorium over which, in practice, higher education policy and politics are largely out of control. Secondly, economic aspects. We must say that this project would not be done with the Chinese party's capital investment and risk-taking, but with the money of Hungarian citizens, this Chinese university would be built here in Hungary, so that we all, together with your constituents, will have to repay it, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz. I think that by HUF 90 billion more than you are destined for the entire Hungarian university world in the 2022 budget to pay for such a project, it shows your value choice. The public money of Hungarian citizens, the public money paid from their taxes, is finite, and I think that we are sitting here in the Hungarian Parliament to warn decision-makers that we must make a decision in the best interests of the country. We know nothing about taking credit, fellow Members. What is the repayment schedule? In what currency is this happening? How does the exchange rate risk split, Mr. Secretary of State? What kind of clauses are we gonna have? How are the rights exercised regulated? So there are a lot of open questions that I think cannot be supported responsibly without clarification. Let's move on, let's talk about our academic and scientific concerns. I fully agree with Mr Secretary of State's statement that domestic higher education, which is naturally embedded in European higher education, is very interested in increasing its international relations. I am also very pleased about what I was involved in preparing as a university leader, that there are an increasing number of foreign students in our country, and in this respect the appearance of a foreign university in our country is not something of a devil, no one claims. However, my fellow Member Pósán has already indicated that, let us say, here, compared to the number of galactic home universities, I think that is what my fellow Member said, this is such a small university. Well, it's not, fellow Members. All the examples given by both the Secretary of State and my fellow Member Pósán are usually one or two majors and, above all, a business-like profession from Norway, which is a completely different business, my fellow Members. Minister of State said that this is a four-armed, almost complete university, which will cause a very serious competition to the Hungarian university world, in the bled-out Hungarian university world, where after your two-thirds reign, after 11 years, a university teacher assistant will earn HUF 145 thousand net. This is your choice of values, your science and university policy, and compared to that, there will be a university whose teachers will earn ten times as much, my fellow Members. We could all read it in the press. So this is an irresponsible decision, the Hungarian university world must be protected from an investment of this magnitude. I stress that a more modest university that would indeed serve what the Secretary of State said in his exposé, in order to increase the international scientific embeddedness of our country, would be necessary. It is a different issue, and that brings me to my fourth point of view that it does have an international and foreign policy dimension. And then, with the seat of the University of Fudan in the university rankings of the world, I really do not have any discussion; I have one comment, which is also included in my report on academic freedom and university autonomy approved by the Council of Europe: let us not forget one thing, that these rankings do not measure the degree of freedom of society behind universities, and that the intellectuals there are really free to express their thoughts; I think these concerns are also real in this case. I am not saying that they will teach Marxism-Leninism here, because they will not, but one thing is certain: a state and let us call it a non-democracy institution in Budapest, which, unfortunately, is becoming more and more suited to Fidesz' system of one-party overpowering. So I think that, on the other hand, since the balance of foreign policy over the last 11 years has unfortunately begun to be very dangerously upset, I say once again, that we must have a balanced political, scientific, economic relationship with China, it is quite clear that, from a national strategic point of view, we have decided, in the period of change of regime, that we are pursuing a Euroatlantic foreign policy, which we are in favour of, then we can see that those steps and even our veto country within the European Union, in recent days, weeks, whether against Russia or against Turkey, or against China, are the foreign policy positions of the Fidesz government show that the delicate balance, because we really need to maintain a delicate balance, I once again stress, is starting to roll in the eastern direction. This is a very dangerous process, and since every decision, including such a decision on science and university policy, affects our foreign policy in some form, and the appearance of an institution of this magnitude in our country does seriously affect the international embeddedness of our country, I think that would be a very bad signal at this very delicate time. [[13.20]] In summary, I therefore think that the current bill does not meet the interests of Hungarian citizens on the basis of very detailed analyses. For Hungarian citizens, modern, XXI. Hungarian universities, highly supported in the century, have their interests, with well-balanced international relations, which fit into the international embeddedness of our country. I would be delighted to discuss, say, the case of the campus of the University of Heidelberg in Budapest, the case of the campus of the University of Tübingen in Budapest, but also the case of any other campus of the university in the European Union. This proposal also concerns our next item on the agenda, the student center. In my speech at that time as the lead speaker, I will soon give you a little more detail on my opinion. But let me do that now, because these two things are related to the location of the project: I think that, after ruling this country with two thirds for 11 years, they could not give a meaningful answer to the housing crisis that students in Budapest suffer every day after the entry into the sky because of the too tight dorm capacity. Compared to this, they want to create such a Chinese campus from one moment to the next, putting the students of Budapest back in the background again. That is why this is a very worrying proposal, which we cannot support on behalf of the People's Party Jobbik. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-27-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State! Over the last few weeks, we've been listening to your propaganda about Fudan University, and we've read about it on your social media side day and night, the propaganda campaign you've been doing against the planned campus of Fudan University in Hungary. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to take each other seriously. This is the general debate of Parliament, not Bernadett Szél's like-gathering competition, not Gergely Christmas's hysterical attacks, but the general debate of Parliament, and it is time to stop the propaganda you are carrying on. Congressman Pósán has advanced your opinion because we have been reading over the past few weeks about what you think about this project. But you are arguing not only with us, but also with István Ujhelyi. István Ujhelyi said that I am glad that Fudan chooses Budapest as its base and that it is natural for the university to offer a site in the framework of cooperation. This is what István Ujhelyi said, who is the president of the Confucius Institute in Szeged, which was also established with Chinese university cooperation. Or even Lajos Oláh, who is the 15th. He has been lobbying for Chinese primary and secondary schools in the district for years, and then he has implemented this project, the president of the Chinese big wall friendly company. Or we could say Ferenc Gyurcsány. You should listen to your boss, it would be time to listen to your boss, who said that when he was in China, because after his becoming Prime Minister in 2004, when Péter Medgyessy was shut down, he went to China as Prime Minister a year later: my goal is to have China in Hungary when he wants to come to Europe. That's what he said in 2005. So Gyurcsány visited China in September 2005 and went to China two years later, and his wife, one of your presidential candidates, Klára Dobrev, was with him. In September 2007 Ferenc Gyurcsány said that he would be very supportive of higher education cooperation between the two countries. During this visit, my fellow Members, the Hungarian company Innomed, in the presence of Klára Dobrev, presented a donation of $150,000 to the University of Fudan in the form of medical monitors and equipment. Dávid Daróczi, your then government spokesperson, said that an agreement is outlined that Chinese students would build a college in Hungary in exchange for learning opportunities in Hungary. This was the position of Ferenc Gyurcsány in 2007, after they visited the University of Fudan together with Klára Dobrev and appreciated the future opportunities for cooperation. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, you are attacking this project by pure political calculation. You know perfectly well that in the current world economy and world policy situation, we need pragmatic cooperation with all great powers because of our geopolitical situation. We have two federal systems, NATO and the European Union, but we are also interested in mutual good relations with all countries, dialogue in the voice of respect and not in the voice of education, and pragmatic cooperation. This is true of all great powers to the west and east of us. And my fellow Members know precisely that the old thesis that capital and knowledge flow only from the west to the east is not true now, in 2021, but is now flowing from the east to the west. Projects of this kind are constantly expanding across Europe, by the way. In this bill, we are not actually discussing Fudan University, but that you would like Hungary to benefit from this transfer of knowledge and capital and thus enter the XXI. century, or you don't want to do that. Because if they keep attacking such projects, then you would like to see the 21st century. Let us stay out of the new world policy and geostrategic issues of the century. You would like Hungary to get into some sort of safespace, a small bubble, as Brenner Koloman put it, because he objected that Hungarian universities would then have to compete. Well, the thing is, for once, we should be able to compete, and we should be better at last, and we should also defeat universities that have a higher ranking. I wouldn't even stress how many different ways Brenner Koloman attacked the international lists, which appreciate the universities' location in the different rankings. He said that they do not appreciate how free thinking is or how free thinkers are there. I think that if Fudan became the 34th best university in the world, then very good thinkers, teachers, scientists or researchers can work at Fudan University. Of course, he says they shouldn't think. Then there must be smart people in the party center who made Fudan the 34th best university. I don't think it's worth attacking international professional rankings, it's definitely not the right way. The Member has also brought economic and budgetary aspects. I would like to tell everyone here that the world's first 50, but let us say that anyone from 100 universities would like to come to Hungary, it is in the interest of all political forces in Hungary to support and support this. I was able to agree with the one sentence of Brenner Koloman that the University of Heidelberg should come here. Sure. We ask the Member to assist us in contacting us and in facilitating the various negotiations. But why would EU universities be better than other universities outside the European Union if the international profession says they are not better? Why can the congressman only think in EU universities? Why does the left have a limited view that only universities can be brought from here and not from around the world? We are glad of the first fifty, but rather of every hundred, honourable Member, and we are ready to conclude similar agreements with anyone, because it is in our interest that Hungarian young people will be the winners of the future and learn from the best in the world, forcing Hungarian universities to compete where they can stand. I trust that the Hungarian universities will be able to do so, especially by providing ever-increasing resources and development opportunities every year. I think it's important that we go this way. It is very important that you do not sound your propaganda now, and do not make an ideological question out of a question that is not. Because I'm asking you, what kind of ideology is an engineering degree or a medical degree? Will the mechanical engineer learn something else because they say it's some kind of communist ideology? The last thing we want is for some communist ideology to take place here, and you are the representatives of this idea in the Hungarian Parliament even now, in 2021. And you know who else thinks that a pragmatic relationship with China is important? Germany, for example. In the last five years, Germany's largest trading partner has been China. Germany's number one trading partner has been China continuously for five years. Because it is pragmatic, both German businesses and German students must make good cooperation, that is the job of Germany. And for us, it is about working together around the world, which will benefit Hungarian businesses, Hungarian students, and even the entire Hungarian community, the Hungarian nation. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you are trying to elevate a political product from something that is not fundamentally a political issue. [[13.30]] The question is that we want to have good higher education institutions in Hungary and to be even better. Yes, we would. We want our existing Hungarian higher education institutions to be even better. We have also discussed a number of legislative proposals here, and we have also tried to launch a number of programmes in this case, and we have also allocated funds in this case. The other question is that we would like to see universities coming to Hungary, which are of great importance, with great European international relations, with high rankings. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Scandinavian countries are not disturbed by the fact that they operate large cooperations and various European research centres together with Fudan University, the best universities in the world in the Universitas 21 group are not disturbed by cooperation with the University of Fudan, including California, Zurich, Swedish University of Lund, University of Amsterdam, Irish University College Dublin. All of these universities are okay with their cooperation with Fudan University. In Germany alone, Fudan University cooperates with five universities. Then, according to your logic, Germany has long been a colony of China, hasn't it? So it is clear from this that what they are saying is stupidity, because the fact is, fellow Members, that only 24 universities in Scandinavia are cooperating with the University of Fudan. Fudan University has a separate North Research Centre in China and works with 24 Scandinavian universities and attends Chinese students to study there. So the whole world is a Chinese colony now? Or not them, just us? So again, let's be small, let's be socialist; once again the thought of not being brave enough, let's not get into big projects; we are happy with the bubble Brenner Koloman talked about so that Hungarian universities, Hungarian higher education institutions, will not be able to compete. I don't agree with this petty thought, I think we need to set big goals, dream big, push big. And the thing is, if Hungarian young people can be the winners of the future, then we did what we had to do. There is still a long way to go, but this bill is also a form of this. And, again, wherever there is a university coming from, from the east, from the west, from the north, from the south, if it is high in international professional rankings, then, of course, it is our duty to welcome it with open arms. Your propaganda that's been ringing all day, and that's all it's about. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You have Propaganda! And there's nothing else!]] To make sure that you know that this project makes sense, it's on a pragmatic basis, and you only have to attack the government in some way, because that's what you have. I don't think that's what this is about, let's get this propaganda out of the way, and on the basis of rational arguments and rational debate, let's see what the point of this project is. We'll support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, You're definitely looking for the adjectives here, looking for an adjective that can define the situation in the right way. And now I'm a little glad I'm speaking after Congressman Nacsa, because I think I can put a lot of things right in your head, although there's obviously nothing left to do with propaganda. So, the question is, this is incomprehensible, shocking, unbelievable, or maybe we should take the example if we want to make the comment a little more fun than the classic joke with the peasant uncle on the plane that I was thinking about, that's what I was thinking, so I didn't think of that either. I don't want to tell you the joke, but you know exactly what you're thinking. So, ladies and gentlemen, the real question is why now, why this way and why. I cannot believe that you do not understand or feel the need to say a clear, clear, straightforward Hungarian sentence to this end. I don't want to joke about it right now. I always say that sometimes there are cases where when something goes wrong, it's a diversion. Now we've seen this classic diversion at the house law: it's shot high, and then at the end, it's gonna turn into something small. That's what it's said to be a diversion. So I think that this reflects your real intention, that they are very serious about the inner content of everything. The press is quite good at lawmaking. As Members of Parliament, we usually face the fact that there is a bill tabled, and that journalists do not always take off exactly and accurately the same thing that is in it. But I have to say that in this bill, I think all the cornerstones that raise questions, by the way, are very precise and precise in public. I have to say that the free space, the form of foundation, the 580 billion, Chinese workers, Chinese raw materials, these are all questions I don't think we're going to put as propaganda, it's a perfectly normal and natural question that, if we agree with the goals, these items are something that should be answered in some way. I would very much like to be in a position to be praised by Secretary of State Schanda for our professional debate. Because I was just envied by Congresswoman Gurmai that she told me what good professional debates they had. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Praise the Schanda Secretary of State!]] Therefore, I am really trying not to talk about these absolutely, and I have gathered six things that I would like to say very briefly, which, in my opinion, raises certain questions, and I am also trying not to give you any judgment, but I am simply trying to make the dilemmas clear to you. Your whole credo is about the continued, permanent protection of the government of national sovereignty, national autonomy, national interests and values. And believe me, I know this is gonna sound weird from my mouth, and I like it, and I'm glad that a next government in which we can take a majority role can take a similar approach. But you do, don't you, feel that the XXI. Is it the century or the modern world that one way of losing sovereignty can be economic dependence? You do understand that with the Budapest-Belgrád railway line now, and do you understand that with this 580 billion-dollar thing, of which 480, if we understand correctly, is Chinese-type credit, which Brenner Koloman said we do not see inside, we read so much that we might get it under less favourable conditions than if we took up a similar amount of money in the financial market of the European Union, but I do not know, we just heard it or think why they do not understand that this is also a problem? And we are doing this to a country where, to put it mildly, we are not convinced of its commitment to spread that kind of rule of law and democracy system everywhere. By the way, in my heart, I'm pro-Asian. In my heart, I believe that Asia and China must be opened. So don't accuse us of not bringing Ujhelyi and Oláh quotes here, because, yes, these two and I, too, believe that yes, this is where Hungary must open. Why don't you realize that while you're doing this, every step of the way, you seem to close doors that I think it's a sin to close? The whole Hungarian history, the post-middle Age history, was about how, how, politically and culturally, we can join where we consider ourselves to be geographically part of Europe. And when our famous writers write about ferryland, it is about not being in a place between two worlds. Now, what I'm trying to say is that the Eastern opening, which I'm going to say once more, I approve of, within which I accept relations with China, to a certain level of dependence, of course, I do not accept from you that, meanwhile, it seems that our country, Hungary, is being closed to the West. Let's put this right, although Brenner Koloman understands this much better than I do, and he said that despite the fact that 62 capitals are listed, where this university has some kind of department where two teachers teach, and there is a seminar where they publish something, this will be the first campus of this university in the world. This will be his first campus. So this is the type of full-blown university education that we're going to have here. Why isn't he anywhere else? That's a question someone's going to ask. Cheap jokes are now left behind, because I really like praise, but in recent years, Fudan's founding document is that the ideology of the Communist Party must be represented in every dispute. [[13.40]] Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Tell us when we voted on a budget when we talked about starting a new university in Hungary for HUF 500 billion! What was the moment when we made this kind of political decision? Or does it already look like someone's sitting in the Carmelite monastery and telling you to have a university, and the resources for it are set up by him himself? No! The establishment of a 500 billion HUF university is indeed a story to be prepared in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask: where was the type of application, where did the members of the government speak about it, for example, in America, England or in any other country, that we are planning to create a campus for 500 billion, which we are willing to pay for, but we ask that the kind of knowledge base that you know come to us and help Hungarian knowledge and Hungarian development. So, yes, everything you're saying is true. It's great that the university in top 50 is coming to Hungary, that's right. But the top 50 has 49 others. Did the 49 others receive an offer to examine whether, if appropriate, they would be willing to come to Hungary with better conditions and better conditions? It's not anti-China, my friends, it's not against Fudan University! This is about us being an attractive target, and we can be the knowledge center in Central and Eastern Europe. That's a very good thought, what the Secretary of State said. Here are our excellent young people, we will be able to make our move here. Then perhaps it is for many people in this global world, where I really accept that universities do not lock themselves in their own geographical locations, obviously want to spread their own knowledge, I think that this is an attractive project. I do not recall, fellow Members, that I have read somewhere that with this project, with this opportunity, anyone from the Hungarian government would have walked in from the Hungarian government, or not give me, God is good, it really is a very, very state-of-the-art prank, if appropriate, say, a tender, something would have appeared somewhere to come, give us 500 billion, here is the place, and do what they want, because we will not interfere with what is going to happen there. I don't want to be the lead speaker on the next item, either. I don't like the idea that if there's a story like this, this project will get this property free of charge and will take a seat from Student City. I also don't want to go on too long, Brenner Koloman did this, that total higher education will receive less money than it will now cost in this period. And don't deny, in this simple matter, I'm once again caught in the act by the elitist approach that you represent in these matters. Do not tell me, for all we know, that with such a high tuition, such a relatively high prestige, obviously in a much better physical condition, a university with foreign teachers and better paid performers will not be where such an elitist approach can be made. And who can you get in to? I do believe that there is a justification for systems where someone can really be Mayor of Murder. Now I know it's a seemingly funny remark, but I really think it's important that people, more talented people, get ahead. You are doing that again, because the end of this will be that Hungarian higher education will shut itself down in its closed world, and it will also sulk a little bit, it will be offended, and the elite, all types of elite, the teaching elite, the service elite and the student elite, and this will, of course, mean money, obviously, they will say that the scholarship system will compensate for this, but I am not so confident that this will be concentrated here. That's not good. Understand that this is not good, I think it has very serious effects in the long term. I'd like to bring him here, because that's just the politics of the IXth. Mrs. Mayor of the District has announced your national consultation. That's what you guys like about important issues, so let's just say that this thing is a pretty important question, so we're excited about it. The mayor asks that she agrees that the Student City should not be built according to the original plans and on the ground, she agrees with the establishment of the Budapest centre of the University of Fudan in China, she agrees with the borrowing that the government will take this, and agreed that Hungary should have a university that does not provide free training for Hungarian students. These are the four questions that people will soon be able to answer if they think they can. I'd like one more little thing here at the end, obviously they're gonna bite on it because they love, I know, thoughts like that. But I like the fact that they've taken this thing out of the scope of civil law, but I don't want to be in line with the CEU thing. But it's funny, though, that they're killing other people by showing up here, and by the way, someone who has virtually any possibility of not falling under civil law. Your MEP once said in connection with the CEU debate that a privileged university, which gives a Hungarian and American degree at the same time, is left-wing and does not like Fidesz, cannot be in Hungary. Now, let's translate this sentence. Privileged university? Yeah. Do you give Hungarian and Chinese degrees at the same time? Yeah. On the left? Yeah. But he likes Fidesz, that's the difference. So it's just because he likes Fidesz. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]] Well, actually, one can stay, and the other can't. Well, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to say that we should really think about the fact that an average, medium-trained, read Christian-conservative person in 2010 in 14 should say that in 18 he said that Fidesz was the only party protecting national interests and that he would guide Hungary in the right direction. Have you considered that, on the basis of all the information that you can now know about this, and what you will think will happen about this case, you will be proud or not be proud of what is happening here in Hungary! I think, and that's what I started with, that's what I end up with, and it's hard to find markers. I think you've really crossed a psychological line within yourselves that I personally didn't believe. These sentences, Congressman Nacsa, do you know how well they will be used in later years? Compared to that, it's the ear of the Gyurcsány film dog! These sentences are as good as you are trying to pet that regime today... [[Gergely Arató: Let's not confuse the two standards.]] That's true. That's right, I'm sorry. Excuse me. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say that you may have figured out that we are not going to support it, but we are still looking for the adjective. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-27-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Nacsa Lőrinc:...commissar! He's jogging the bell.]] Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató, who is speaking here on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-77	Dear House, This bill is undoubtedly the top of your higher education policy. This bill contains everything you think about higher education, the future of Hungarian young people, Hungarian knowledge. I could also say that now, we have to stop at the top, but that is not the case, they should have stopped long ago, because that everything on which this bill is based is not simply a mistake, it is not simply a wrong direction, it is a sin against the nation, a sin against Hungary and a sin against the young Hungarians. What are the two directions that this bill expresses? One is the destruction and privatization of Hungarian higher education in Fidesz-near pockets, and the other is the break in the autonomy of higher education and its conversion to slave formation. I could also say that this bill is Godzilla and King Kong's love child, so it's so ugly! Let's see the first one. What's the bill about? About taking a valuable public area, we will take a large amount of cash, if we understand it correctly, a hundred billion forints, and we will add a very unfavorable loan from China, which, of course, we Hungarian citizens will pay in some way. And what are we gonna do with all this money? We are not creating a transparent, transparent institution, we are not creating a public institution, we are creating a private university. A regular trust fund is set up, and it is carefully described in Section 1. Paragraph 3 of this Article provides that although the board of trustees does not exist from the beginning, it will exist until the end of time, it has this wealth without any control, without any accountability. [[13.50]] In other words, a private institution is created with very, very much public money and public property. Obviously, you and your Chinese colleagues have already sold out who will get well-paying, leading jobs and who can control this otherwise very important money. Let's also say that Imre Steindl built this building well. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] because it didn't break down when the Secretary of State quoted Kuno Klebelsberg as a wonderful architectural achievement. One of the greatest achievements of Klebelsberg Kuno is that after Trianon he rebuilt and established the network of Hungarian state higher education. He created a higher education that was the foundation of the Hungarian higher education until the privatisation of the last years. Klebelsberg did not bring a foreign university here with Hungarian taxpayers' money, but brought Albert Szent-Györgyi back to a Hungarian university, who then won a Nobel Prize. Now, that's the difference between you and Klebelsberg, and that's why Klebelsberg is remembered now, and they'll probably remember him in a hundred years, about the Palkovic era. [[To Tamás János Schanda:]] Not to mention the Secretary of State, we all hope that in a few years' time, everyone will forget. Let me highlight one more beauty just because Congressman Gyula Molnár mentioned it. You hated CEU, your main argument was that it cannot be that a Hungarian higher education institution is not subject to the law. If we open this bill, what do we read in 4. Section 3? It is mentioned and recorded through a long paragraph what Hungarian laws do not apply to this university. Yeah, well, they can. Well, if a university comes with the blessing and ideology of the Chinese Communist Party, your political friends and allies bring it, then it should not be subject to Hungarian law. The law was passed on purpose for CEU, so that they could hate it, the Hungarian law in force does not apply to Fudan University. What about the other thing, what do you think about higher education? Our fellow Member Nacsa says how great it is to have a university of the first 50 coming here. But what I would like to ask you is, as the Hungarian Parliament and you, as the Hungarian education government, wouldn't it be our job to improve the quality of Hungarian universities? Let me be clear: Fudan University is a significant part of it and is well placed in these rankings because it has the money to bring Nobel Prize winners to the university. Why don't you give more money to the Hungarian universities to bring more instructors, more highly qualified, high-tech teachers, or Hungarians who have fled from the lack of money and your higher education policy and academic policy. Why is it not your ambition to teach world-famous Hungarian scientists at world-famous Hungarian universities? Why is it your ambition to teach at a Chinese university with the money of world-famous scientists, Hungarian taxpayers? And he says, Congressman Pósan, it's very kind that the opposition doesn't understand whose interest it is. The thing is, Congressman, we're very aware of your misfortune. We see for whom this construction is good: it is good for the Chinese; it is good for those who do business with the Chinese; it is good for those who will get into this paid university, whether they belong to your elite or come from abroad; it is good for those Chinese companies that will build this university. There is only one group that is not good for: for Hungarian taxpayers, for the vast majority of Hungarian citizens, for many, it is not good for them. This is the university of the few, not the university of many in Hungary. Because we don't have any illusions about Kőbány or Kispest, the panel or the MÁV site, very few students will be able to get into this university. It's not for them, it's for the Chinese, it's for the good-money paid students and the people they're gonna push into this university through their contacts. There's one more little thing we're not talking about. I have to say, it will not be a great sensation that you have again broken your word, since you have entered into an agreement with the capital on the conditions under which the World Athletics Championship can take place. Well, there was no mention of Fudan University, there was no mention of Chinese university, there was a student town, and the whole area was going to be a student town. You have broken this agreement. The Democratic Coalition expects the capital to draw conclusions. We expect nothing from you; you have lied so far, you will continue to lie. But the capital needs to draw conclusions, and if you don't comply with this deal, then the capital doesn't have to contribute and support the athletic world. We can tell you a much better place for the money that is being spent there: it would be better for the energy modernisation of the panel houses; it would be better for family allowances and pensions; it would be better for health care. Finally, I would like you, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, to no longer have much point in persuading me, because you operate in such a way as to have a party order, this one week and the next week; what must be done is always carried out to say a few words to the representatives of the Chinese state. I am sure that this debate will be monitored. [[István Szilárd Németh: And now they're looking at you!]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if the electorate so wishes, there will be a new government here in a year's time: a government that cannot be bought with neither money nor political influence nor political advantages. The next democratic government will be open to cooperation with everyone, China, on the basis of mutual benefits, either in education or in the economy, but there will be no partner in building a political and economic bridge head office in Europe with Hungarian money, using Hungarian taxpayers' money. There will be no partner in creating a university with Hungarian taxpayers' money that does not serve Hungarian interests. Moreover, there will be no partner in creating an environmental-destructive Budapest-Belgrád superrail with Hungarian taxpayers' money, which is again not in the interests of Hungarians. Therefore, do not think that the legal trick of the current government will save this investment. We will terminate this contract, we will take back the wealth for the Hungarian taxpayers. And to say that my fellow Members also understand that we are willing to cooperate with anyone on the basis of mutual benefits, but we will not be a colony. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The group of the LMP indicated that their group's position was presented by two of their representatives, Mr László Keresztes, Lóránt Group leader and Mr Antal Csárdi. First, I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here's your word, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-05-27-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that whoever follows this debate today can learn a lot about you and learn about the policy that you really represent against rhetoric. Congressman Nacsa spoke about China's policy. I can tell you, not only to Mr Nacsa, but also to you, that what you have developed for China is not pragmatic cooperation. as the congressman put it, it's submission. This is the second project, a second investment where you spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money in the order of 100 billion dollars for investment, projects that are solely in the interest of China and the Chinese Communist Party. Parallelly, these resources will not be used to carry out extremely important tasks, which, in turn, would be extremely important, very important, essential for the future of Hungarian people. Here the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP talked about it, with a somewhat cynical tone that, well, why wouldn't the Hungarian universities compete with the University of the Chinese Communist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, You torture, strangle Hungarian universities, withdraw the promised funds from Hungarian universities, while giving the Hungarian taxpayers' money, the hundreds of billions of Hungarian taxpayers, to the Chinese university. [[14.00]] Do Hungarian universities try to compete under these conditions? What I can say is that, on the basis of this presentation, and on the basis of the debate over the last few weeks, you have betrayed Hungarian young people, you have betrayed Hungarian universities. Almost all Hungarian higher education has been outsourced and placed under political control. There is no state higher education institution left in the country. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, is occupied by the Vice-President of the Parliament. Attilat Móring József in the notary seat László Földi, Turdai Bencé replaced by Gergely Arató.) At the end of January, Viktor Orbán promised the Hungarian universities a HUF 1500 billion EU development resource, and the Prime Minister lied. He lied to Hungarian university leaders, university citizens, university senates, the Hungarian Prime Minister lied to Hungarian young people, lied to the general public. Only HUF 119 billion will arrive from the 1500 billion promised by the Prime Minister, and this promised resource, which you used to blackmail Hungarian universities into outsourcing the model change, will not be replaced in any way. Mr. Secretary. The fact that you're gonna stand up and say that you're gonna replace these resources is nothing. No one believes you anymore, and they're right not to believe you. Where are these sources? If we look at the lines of the central budget, there's no such resources anywhere. On the other hand, you will spend 550 billion forints on the University of the Chinese Communist Party, I repeat, with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. Ladies and gentlemen, No one gave you permission to do that. My fellow Members have already mentioned this, but it is very important to stress that you spend much more money on this one investment than you spend all year to finance Hungarian higher education. This is a betrayal of Hungarian national interests. Or I could say that you may have understood better that you have invaded your own nation, and this may have been revealed in today's debate and today's speeches. The Hungarian universities should compete in such a way that, over the last 11 years, you have continuously bled out universities and bled out Hungarian higher education. Hundreds of billions were withdrawn from the funding of Hungarian higher education, and nothing was done to improve shamefully low, humiliatingly low teaching and research wages. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, a university assistant with a doctoral degree earns HUF 277,000 gross at Hungarian universities. Viktor Orbán's government has a minister who takes home 18 times as much money in a month as a university assistant with a doctoral degree. This tells us about you and everything about your higher education policy. We have seen quite amazing and tragic processes, a lot of teachers who wanted to bet their lives on this, have chosen a different career, or have just gone abroad, because you have driven them away with their shameful policies, with humiliatingly low wages. There's been an amazing drop in student numbers. I will give you just one example: in the case of the University of Pécs, the number of students decreased by 10 thousand between 2008 and 2018. Compared to this, you, I repeat, spend 550 billion of the Hungarian taxpayer's money on a project where we can already see from the plans that the instructors will receive ten times their salary, such as the Hungarian universities that you have deceived, bled out and have been constrained. Congressman Pósan has set the number of students as an example. Let it be clear to everyone that the University of Fudan has about as many students as the University of Debrecen, and yet you spend a lot more money building the campus in Budapest than the entire Hungarian higher education. I repeat, we are talking about a university campus in Budapest that has a total of 30,000 students. That's pretty amazing. So we can say that we thank Mr Pósan for this example. We could describe for a long time the reasons why we should reject this shameful and anti-Hungarian project. We should also mention the very serious national security risks here. I can say that your government is not a national, non-conservative, non-Christian, and I cannot say a government after the change of regime, who has caused such serious damage to Hungarian higher education and who has thus pawned the future of Hungarian youth. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-80	Good afternoon. Welcome. We will continue our work by the fact that Congressman Antal Csárdi continues to give the LMP keynote speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-27-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, This investment is a value choice which I do not have the guts to say on an emotional basis, and let me put it in context, Mr. Secretary. You chased me out of here, in a very traceable and demonstrable way, on a democratic basis in Europe, in the European Union... which, I'm well aware, is our allies, or no longer? so that a highly respected university. And then let's see what kind of relationship you have with China and, in general, with these authoritarian states. I remember when the Chinese leadership visited Budapest, then Hungarian police pulled the Tibetan flag out of the hands of a fellow countryman wishing to give his opinion, just because the Chinese delegation led to it, and only so that the Chinese leader would not see this protesting young man. I think that is part of the context when we look at this. You have prevented a joint EU resolution that would have raised Hong Kong's voice as a result of the continued deterioration of Hong Kong's autonomy by China. That is the context, Mr. Secretary of State. I think it's worth noticing. You can see what kind of relationship they are trying to establish and cultivate, and I think it is far from pragmatic with Russia, China, Turkey, and I could list the authoritarian states that you are trying to serve in an indecent, immoral, uncritical manner. The next element of this is the establishment of this university, which, in the debate, will also teach political science in our country. This is interesting because academic independence and freedom of thought have been removed from the foundation of Fudan University. Mr. Secretary, do you recognize this? They made a commitment to follow the Communist Party's guidance, to believe that socialist values were respected, saying that Fudan University should equip its teachers and students with the New Age of Chinese Socialist Ideology of Xi Jin-ping. I would like to add that this was not in 1954, my fellow Members, it was not in 1972, it was in December 2019. So the cooperation you so much like to refer to will be an interesting refraction, because we intend to work closely with the Chinese state after these changes, strictly after these changes and changes we intend to build a Chinese university, not with Chinese money, but with credit, by the sweaty work of the taxpayers. An elite university, and I have no problem with elite universities, to which, let us be honest, a negligible part of Hungarian university students will be able to get into, and so that we can be sure that those who are lucky and get into this university, if of course it's lucky, are able to provide a strong economic background that the family can truly provide today for those who have good relations with the government. In addition, they make this investment by cheating virtually everyone who came up. It is safe to say that this investment not only operates inaccessiblely, but is born through everyone and everything, morals and agreements, and I think that the result of this is that it is very, very serious elamorating the student city project in which the Hungarian government is, by the way, the capital of Budapest IX. He agreed with his district and the capital. [[14.10]] It's worth a look. [[He's pointing to his laptop:]] Here's the picture of the investment map. The whole area is marked in red and blue. This was the original student city investment area. Now this area looks like two thirds of Fudan University will be taken away, and one third of the rest of it will be carried out with some kind of remnant, retard from Student City, and you think that's okay. So you do not think that the situation of Hungarian university students is important enough, but that this university is specifically intended to be at their expense. Because let's be honest, I wouldn't like this investment, but in Hungary I could say a million and two other locations where this could have been built. You have deceived, betrayed this country, deceived and betrayed this student population, their parents, and let us be honest, if you look at the funding, it also fits a complete and now complete picture. It started with the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, with hundreds of billions of HUF Chinese borrowing, which will also be built from hundreds of billions of HUF loans. We don't know the conditions for any of these loans. It is true that, for example, the Paks loan agreement does, which takes place in a very similar way. For example, we know that the cost of credit is a multiple of the credit costs available from the market that are now available in the European Union or worldwide. And then the Hungarian Prime Minister, with incredible arrogance, announces that he does not use the EU loan to restore the economy; he does not take it because he prefers to borrow from his ideological friends even more expensively. Please, this is completely economically unacceptable. This bill is ripe for withdrawal, so to speak. I think it would be good not to continue this direction, but to find partners based on democratic core values, and I would like to point out to them who would be worthy of a proud student, teacher, citizen. That's not the direction. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-05-27-82	Thank you very much. It is now time for the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group, Mr Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Looking for a better example of Fidesz ruling against 99 percent interest than the history of Fudan University. We are talking about a university where you can buy a degree for about HUF 20 million, and from here on out, it is a question of whose interests this Chinese business university is, of course, to bring it here, to build it with Chinese workers and Chinese materials, so that in the end, most of it will be Chinese owned, which is not, and that is Fidesz ownership, and of course, financed by Hungarian taxpayers' money. So, obviously, there's gonna be one of those tight elites who thinks they're lucky they're gonna send their kids there, maybe it'll be good for them. Obviously, it'll be good for this State Business University, I mean, the Chinese State Business University, because they're gonna make a huge profit on it. Of course, it will be good for those near Fidesz entrepreneurs who, as subcontractors, receive all kinds of overpriced opportunities from the Chinese, so it will also be good for Lőrinc Mészáros and his friends. It will be good for those important Fidesz people who will be put into the trust fund, which owns this university, as all Hungarian universities were slowly converted into private hands near Fidesz. This is the narrow 1 percent layer that will benefit from the introduction of Fudan if that happens. However, 99 percent, and above all the Hungarian taxpayers, who pay the cost of all the nightmares of 540 billion if their plans go through, will not, and in particular will be offended by the case of Student City, the case of young Hungarians from rural areas who would come to Budapest to study in Hungarian universities of quite good quality. But they do not support them, and they do not support the Hungarian universities, but they will create a luxury university here for the children of the international economic elite that drives them out. Now it would really be difficult to explain why it is good and good for whom, and I have listened tremendously to the pro-government speakers, the Fidesz lead speakers, even the KDNP, and I still don't understand why this is good for us Hungarians. Our fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, says that this leads Hungarian universities and Hungarian higher education to competition. Well, it's wonderful to compete with an instructor at Hungarian universities looking somewhere between 200 and 600 thousand forints gross, and in this Chinese luxury university between 1.5 million and 6 million forints will earn an instructor, which is what the personal multimillion-dollar research framework will find out. This is really how a good university, a research university, a university that is trying to be at the international forefront, but why not provide Hungarian higher education with the funds to be spent on it? So they spend 540 billion forints of Hungarian public money on Fudan, and 453 billion forints of annual funding for Hungarian higher education. Do you understand? ! And then you're the national government that represents national interests? ! If you were in our position, you'd be treasoning and treasoning from your throats. But let's look at the costs, the financing part, because Hungarian economists have just published an open letter about this, a message, including figures who cannot be accused of left-wing bias, such as the First Minister of the Orbán Government, Attila Chikán, former Fidesz Prime Minister candidate, Ákos Bod Péter, or former KSH President appointed by Fidesz, Tamás Melár. [[Tamás János Schanda: He sits in your group!]] They say that this HUF 540 billion or part of this loan will be taken at six times the interest that we could receive from the EU as a loan. So the almost free loan that the Union is providing is rejected from the Restoration and Resistance Fund, and instead it is taken up at six times the Chinese loan, the exact amount of which is not known, because although 450 billion forints are circulating, the Chinese financier also made an offer of 580 billion, so this may be even more expensive. But we do not even know what this will cost us Hungarians, not only how much the Orbán government is indebted to Hungary, which is already drowning in government debt above 80 percent, but we do not even know what the actual price of this is. The wonderful company, the name of which is the Chinese State Construction Company, gave a bid of HUF 338 billion. And here comes the 200 billion forint question of where the difference comes from. Where does 200 billion forints go that won't be spent on construction? Is that what you're putting in your pockets? They priced it at a price of 650 thousand forints, and Minister Palkovics said that we were a approx. We're counting a million square meters. It makes sense that this HUF 540 billion comes out. Has the project already been overpriced by 50 percent? Does Fidesz really take out this 200 billion forint through Lőrinc Mészáros and his friends? What exactly is the plan, Mr. Secretary? Well, I'd like you to be so kind as to light it up a little bit. Then we talked about costs, we talked about tuition fees, two and a half million are the cheapest semester, but this is constantly rising, it can be double in master's degree, we can talk about salaries and how this will take away the best instructors, if possible, from Hungarian universities. So it's not a competition, it's bleeding out, it's a brain drain, and it's actually inside the city. So for Hungarian higher education, if they want to use it, they will call off this project very quickly; it is simple, it doesn't cost any money. [[14.20]] If you really want to improve Hungarian higher education, then put back into state property the foundations that have been put in fidesz hands and simply put more money into the annual funding of higher education. Let's look at the whole thing from a global perspective, a geopolitical perspective. There was a good international university here, and it was called the Central European University, the CEU, that was chased away, and now they're trying to bring in an Eastern dictatorship instead in the spirit of Chinese opening. There are, indeed, international rankings on which this is a top priority, but it is in order to be able to call a university an institution where academic independence and freedom of thought as a principle have given place to the Chinese Communist Party's guidance and follow-up, well, this is a highly problematic issue. And the emphasis here is not on the Communist, because we know that the Chinese Communist Party's power conglomerate operates a state capitalist dictatorship with concentration camps for the Uighurs, after which the Nazis would lick their ten fingers. So this dictatorship can make their own business, and it really seems strange that Fidesz, which thinks itself to be an anti-communist, although many former communists are involved in it, and very often they use Bolshevik tempo, they contract with a Communist Party, but they are not communists, and they are not communists themselves, they are simply able to do anything for power and money. Perhaps this close friendship is a little more understandable if we shorten the Chinese Communist Party only to Chinese KP, and now everyone can see what the logic behind this friendly cooperation is. It also occurred to me that this is going to be some kind of spy center, and, well, fears are not unfounded. About two to three percent of these institutions actually employ spies. They're not full-time spies, they're second-time spies, they're gonna be honest university teachers, they're gonna be honest construction workers and engineers for the superficial viewer, they're just in reality handing out reports to the Chinese secret service. It's a Trojan horse, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz. Look at how the African Union was doing when it adopted a Trojan horse like this in the early 2010s, and then it was not paid for with them, but the 200 million-dollar headquarters of the African Union were given a gift from China, and a few years later it turned out that, uh, every day, the entire data file, which was formed there, went down and was sent to a Chinese server. They built that entire building to install their espionage technology without obstacles. And that's not the only time the Chinese state engineering company got involved in scandals like this. So it's quite obvious what they're going to use this institution for, and even though they're making a fuss that there are all kinds of cooperation relations with other Western countries, yes, joint training programmes, they're still less dangerous than when we give them half a district and let the Chinese build a headquarters here. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Not only am I telling you to stand still, but the leadership of both the capital and the affected district is telling you to stop. Gergely Christmas and Krisztina Baranyi also say that the procession should stop, and even Viktor Orbán says that the procession should stop, because after defeating your man here in Budapest, the Prime Minister said that okay, there will be no investment in Budapest that the leadership of the capital will not agree to. Well, he didn't give a damn about that, and they still want to make it happen. So from this point forward, it really follows that we do not give a single square metre of space to the Fudan project, and this is not just our opinion, but the opinion of a lot of outraged Hungarian and Budapest people. That is why we are launching a consultation, if you like, a national consultation, where, in answering four questions, people can express their views on the fact that they want this university to take place here under such conditions. And that is why we support the demonstration that András Jámbor is organizing next Saturday, 5 June, from 14:00 p.m. to Heroes' Square, where many thousands of people will say that no, thank you, we do not ask for Fudan University, stop Fudan, even send a message to Beijing that they can understand and even stop Beijing. So let's stop Beijing, come out for the honors, let's meet in Heroes' Square, especially in Kossuth Square, and show that there is nothing that can be done in Budapest against the wishes of the 99 percent majority that Viktor Orbán and his friends will invent for their own benefit. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-84	Thank you very much. Before I can give the floor to the first independent candidate, Mrs Bernadett Szél, I would like to say that on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has asked for the floor, so I must give it to her under the house rules. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to join once again at this important point in the debate, as serious speeches by the lead speakers have taken place which have expressed the views of all the political groups. I'd like to give you a brief reaction to these. On the one hand, Mr Brenner Koloman, Vice-President, made several criticisms, the first of which concerned the date of submission. I do not assume that Mr Vice-President does not, by the way, know the functioning of this House or the corresponding house rules, nor do I assume that he wanted to lead the public on by talking here about Tuesday night, which would not be worthy of him. But it's important to respond to that. The point is that we tabled this bill on 11 May, which was indeed Tuesday, but now looking back from the end of May, I believe that we had 16 days for everyone to have the right preparation. And I understand that it is difficult for someone on May 27 to submit a law on May 11th, but I hope that during that time, the Jobbik faction was able to study it thoroughly. He may have mentioned something after 23 o'clock in the evening, and I do not think that it is difficult for Members of Parliament, but I also thank my colleagues, who were available at this late hour, and who helped us to present this. Even here, he made critical comments on the presentation of Minister Palkovics. However, I would like to draw the Vice-President's attention to the fact that Minister Palkovic himself is an academic scientist, an engineer who is also recognised in the market sector, who has significant professional and research performance and has research and science organisation activities, and I would like to say once again that he is also a member of the Academy, in contrast with Mr Brenner, so I find his request to be taken into account on these issues to be unworthy. Mr Brenner, and then a number of people in the comments have sometimes expressed greater and sometimes more solid questions about financing and borrowing. I think that's okay, but what's quite shocking is that they've also made statements, and then let's get this straight. No decision has been made on any kind of borrowing. There are different offers for certain loans, but no decision has been taken, and of course, before we make the right decision to start this investment, we will look at all existing and emerging different financing arrangements in a responsible manner. To say the opposite, it is nothing more than political hystericalism, what I understand is that it is worth doing this, and it is worth keeping this issue on the agenda on the left for all political reasons, and it has arrived on the left, according to Jobbik, to keep it on the agenda, but in fact to be clear, and to be clear: no decision has been taken on any kind of borrowing. [[14.30]] And the Hungarian government, as in all other cases, will look at the funding opportunities and then take the necessary decisions. The question raised also by Congressman Brenner, and then again, perhaps by Mr Keresztes, or perhaps by Mr Arató, was raised last but irrelevantly the question of how much this investment will cost and how this is in proportion to the costs for higher education in Hungary. This is, in itself, a serious misleading statement, which is formulated here, since the exact envelope for an investment is not yet visible, and on the other hand, the comparison of operational and development costs is completely misleading and is once again only suitable for mood-raising. When we talk about the development of Hungarian universities, we also talk about hundreds of thousands of billions. Connecting operation and development is the 1.0 version of professional incompetence and misleading Hungarian people. It is quite unworthy, and I think that we should talk about it here at all, in this way, and in several keynote speakers this question has been raised at all. Wages were also discussed in various speeches. I hope that the teachers will be well paid at Fudan University, but I hope that this is also the case in Hungarian higher education institutions, and the model change that the left did not support, is about allowing Hungarian higher education institutions to otherwise give their own employees, their own teachers and their own professors to pay wages that were not possible during the previous period. It is therefore sad that this was not supported by the left. However, as a result of the change of model, this option will also be more available to Hungarian higher education institutions than ever before. And perhaps Congressman Brenner has even tried to bring a foreign policy dimension into his speech, and he has asked ideological questions, so make it clear. Fudan does not bring ideology to Hungary. It doesn't bring ideology, it brings world-class knowledge. One of the world's leading universities is one of the world's leading universities because it does not transfer ideology, but world-class knowledge to its students. I think it is quite unworthy, especially of Congressman Brenner, who really comes from the university world, to make such a false comment. Let us be clear once again what Congressman Pósán has said: I have left it out of my expo, but it is indeed very important. Twenty-five percent of the world's researchers work in China. We're talking about a huge proportion. Being unrelated to these researchers, this scientific system, this important part of science, is more than a sin. That's more than a crime, Honourable Parliament. And not only do we say this, but it's not a coincidence that there are 270 universities in partnership with Fudan in 40 countries, with 70 universities in common. Other people recognize that. And when we want to go even further in this, and we want to support these cooperations even more, then it is in the national interest that you are attacking these developments and this investment. Congressman Nacsa also said many valuable things. I would stress that it is true, that wherever there is a university who is in the first hundred, there is nothing we can do but welcome it; I wish more institutions would appear in Hungary among the best in the world! Congressman Gyula Molnár has put a lot of pressure on me. The most important sentence you have said, which I thank you for, and for that I can only commend the Member, because he said that all of this is true, what you say. It's all true. Thank you very much for your appreciation. [[Interventions in opposition benches.]] However, after that, he asked me, among other things, about the implementation, what was the deal with the offers and the timetable. Congressman! This bill is the beginning of this university building project. No credit agreement, no contract of execution, no decision has been made on any such thing or anything else. An indicative offer has arrived, indeed. But nothing's been decided. I can't answer that question because you can't answer it at the moment, there's no planning there. Congressman, this looks like you need to be able to have the area first. After that, the plans must be prepared, there are different stages, and when the exact plans are ready, it is possible to obtain an accurate bid for the execution of the plans and find the source of the funding. Well, Congressman, we're still out of here. We're on the first step. We're in the first very important step. But don't ask me to do something I can't answer, because those decisions haven't been made yet, because the decisions you're asking for have not yet been taken. The Member also asked where the national interest was and asked questions about sovereignty, which I think is welcome; it is a very good thing to talk about sovereignty issues with the left in 2021. This clearly shows that we have made progress, that this matter has become important to you as well. And there is the national interest that this development, the University of Fudan, contributes to the success of Hungarian young people, because we believe that the success of Hungarian young people is a matter of national strategy, a question of fate for Hungary, and if that is why we can work, then we must do everything we can. That is why we need to support this investment. I am pleased that we agree, in principle, that we need to open up to the East, which is why we can see that they are actually attacking this case simply because of political hysteria. What I still have to respond to is that the property was transferred to the trust fund, not to the Chinese party, so it's a shame to talk about it as if we were to donate it to the Chinese. It's not like that. They're gonna be able to use this property for the university, which, by the way, I think it's in our mutual interest. What I must say to Mr Arató is that when the policy of education, Mr Arató, and the words of sin and error are in the same sentence, I think of very different things, including the wrong decisions made by Mr Arató. [[Continue in 204/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary And what I really don't understand is that when you talk about real estate, why don't you say that it's an area in terrible condition, which, by the way, is a disgrace to Budapest, and its development can be realized as a university city, a student city. No wonder you do not understand, Mr Arató, that this is indeed in the interest of Hungarian young people, because it gives Hungarian young people the opportunity to have access to one of the best universities in the world at home. By the way, many young Hungarians study with the help of state scholarships at the best universities in the world. [[14.40]] This will also be possible in Hungary. The attack on this is completely incomprehensible. But it also showed a great deal that Mr Arató here formulated all kinds of dictatorships to the capital. It is clear that Ferenc Gyurcsány sent a message to Gergely Christmas, what she must do now, what she must say and what she must do. Congressman Arato has told us this before. Indeed, I must make it clear to Mr Keresztes once again that we support the development of Hungarian universities, the resources necessary for the development of Hungarian universities [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] ensure and Hungarian universities will develop. My request is that you do not attack that we will not necessarily finance this from credit or even from RRF. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-86	Thank you very much. After Mr Secretary of State's speech, as I said earlier, the first independent Member to make a statement could be Mrs Bernadett Szél. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It's actually about building a university for China and giving it away as a gift. Whatever you say, whatever you say about us, whatever is going on here, this is a classified case of treason, Mr. Secretary of State, and I would also like to send a message to the Minister from a government that has now become openly an agent of the Chinese Communist Party in the European Community. I can categorically tell you how many points of treason are the laws that have been brought before this House. You know, taking credit from Chinese people and being indebted to them is the only thing in the world: total surrender of national sovereignty. We know of 450 billion in credit. You just said that the Secretary of State doesn't know exactly how much this will be. I would like to remind you that last year the Budapest-Belgrade loan agreement was encrypted, and I could not sue it in Hungarian justice. In 14th year, when we were in debt to the Russians, at least we voted about it here in the House. Now we can't even sue for the loans that we're being owed to these Chinese powers. A little international consultation, if you like, with Montenegro, on how they feel after they have built the most expensive motorway in the world, and what it means when part of the national infrastructure is transferred to the management of a foreign power just because we cannot pay the loan. It's treason! I have asked you, Mr Secretary of State, which part of the national infrastructure will be deposited in this particular contract in case we cannot pay the loan. You dodged an answer. Get up, tell me. It doesn't mean anything to me that you're telling me that you're gonna look at the Ministry for the best credit. Mihály Varga looked at the Paks loan. What's he become? Change. He couldn't go to Moscow enough to reschedule. You should've quit that, too. But let's keep going. You say, or I don't know, that KDNP representative said that this will be a competition and a healthy competition for Hungarian higher education. What are you talking about? ! This is not going to upset Hungarian higher education, it is going to put it all under water. There will be a huge wage difference between the positions of Fudan University and the positions of Hungarian state, pardon and foundation universities. Give them all, give the 450 billion to Hungarian higher education! Then we'll talk about competition, not until then. Not to mention that what they did with CEU is a brutal double standard; it is five times smaller than Fudan, and otherwise there was no state money in it, they said that it is a competitive disadvantage for Hungarian higher education. Now they're tearing apart a Chinese university and telling us that it's going to be a healthy competition for Hungarian higher education. What are you talking about? ! Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? We're talking about Student City here. As far as I'm concerned, there are six acres of Student Town facing the 22 acres of Fudan. I myself was a country student in Budapest, and affordable housing is a prerequisite for us to complete the university, we cannot live under the bridge. You will take this away from Hungarian rural university students, and the economic elite can send their children to Fudan, of course, if he likes the conditions that are there. It has appeared in the press, it can be read, Chinese students can go to the library and the gym, the Hungarian should pay for it! That they don't want to be in contact with us? How will the use of this university be, Mr. Secretary of State? Fourth, this trust model, which is being cemented into, is the net looting of taxpayers. The next thing I know, I started my speech, it says, I read the law that there's a huge property here, it's really huge, this property is owned for free by the foundation, and it's free to manage it. In English, we pay for the check, which was ours, the property goes to the foundation, and in the end it will not be ours, but there will be a pre-purchase of the Hungarian state. What kind of nonsense is that? ! Actually, we pay two times, first time they get it, and if we say they don't need it or they're willing to sell it, we buy it back. It's like stealing your bike, Mr. Secretary, and then I'd say you can buy it back from me. That's exactly what the law says. Calm down, I don't want to steal your bike, I have my own, but answer this question, please, how this construction looks. And don't give me all that onion talk that we don't know how to do it, and that's all. You don't seem to know how to do it either, because if you knew how to do it, you wouldn't be indebted to the Chinese Communist Party. It is also included in this law, and I am very sorry, but it is a completely new element that, apart from operation and maintenance, the state provides both support and donation for operation and maintenance. So there's that we give wealth first, and then we finance operation and maintenance somehow. To get this right, it's gonna look like I'm telling you, we're gonna give it to them, and then we're gonna help them run it. We're going to use public money to maintain something that we don't have a say in how it works and how it works. This is exactly what it looks like, Mr. Secretary of State. And by the way, let's talk about something else that's above it, or you could say it's under it, because values define everything in politics. With what you are doing now, you personally spit the anti-communist past of Viktor Orbán and the whole of Fidesz in the eye as it is. The Prime Minister said he was an anti-communist and a street fighter. Well, he's not an anti-communist, he's not a street fighter, he's the opposite of everything. This is a law and a shame that such a terrible law can be brought before the Hungarian Parliament a Trojan horse of China, and in fact Viktor Orbán kneeled down to the Chinese Communist Party, and the entire KDNP kneels with it, and the entire Fidesz kneels with it. The Budapest-Belgrád railway line, together with Fudan University, practically means to you that since these projects have been pushed through the Hungarian parliament, for example, you have been doing the Chinese Communist Party all over the world, mostly in Brussels. I would like to remind you, Honourable Parliament, that this has not always been the case. Does anyone remember 1989 at the Fidesz? You've organized a protest in front of the Chinese embassy about the protest against the massacre in Tienanmen Square. A declaration was issued and stressed, and I quote the old Fidesz:. It is clear to all sober-thinking people that communist dictatorships unable to change do not shy away from the mindlessest terror if their power is threatened. However, this fact does not mean that the peoples of the world, who respect freedom and democracy, are silently aware of the smearing of human rights and the murder of peaceful protesters. Fidesz strongly condemns Chinese leadership. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Not so long ago, in 2008, even in opposition to the events in Tibet, Fidesz said that the political force, which claims to be a Democrat, could not tolerate the mass muddying of human and minority rights demonstrated by Beijing, the intimidation of the Tibetan population and the Dalai Lama. As a change of regime party, Fidesz feels it is its moral duty to raise its voice and protest when a communist regime acts brutally against the free will of its own citizens. Fidesz must also protest now, when, after many years, the repressive regime once again so brutally flashed its true face in China. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[14.50]] Remember? Do you remember that? Communist dictatorships, repressive regimes, human rights, protests as moral obligations have said so. Not only are they not speaking about Hong Kong, but they are trying to silence others, they are also trying to silence the European Community, Peter Szijjártó's mindless vetoes are exactly about this, about silence. They want to silence the whole of Europe. Well, this is where we tell Beijing we're not gonna make it. I know what I'm talking about, I've already received a letter from one of the Chinese Communist Party's nests in Hungary, the Chinese embassy, telling me that they don't like that I stand for the Falun Dafa movement. Well, from here I send them a message as a Hungarian MP from the Hungarian Parliament so that the Chinese Communist Party does not send messages to me. And we must protect our country. We need to defend our country against mindless and brutal repression, and I am very sorry that Fidesz has given up its own idealism, its own past, its own ideology, gave up everything, and it has truly become a political product of civil Hungary. We can barely protest now. On June 5th, the Szikra Movement is organizing a protest on exactly the Fudan University, and we are on the point of finding the way through various creative ways to express our own opinion in our own country about a Chinese Trojan horse investment. You are impaired, nihilists, you have become a communist petting zoo in Fidesz! Let's say, let's really say it, the Hungarian Parliament is here, let's say it! They couldn't blame me for anything from my past, they couldn't say anything, nothing about me serving any kind of Chinese communist regime or any communist regime. You made a deal with them, the Fidesz made a deal with the Chinese Communists. They bring here a Chinese university that operates under the direct control of the Chinese Communist Party and rewards loyal teachers, loyal teachers, who are loyal to the Party. Here, a benchmarking system has been introduced, Mr. Secretary of State, which evaluates teachers according to how much they are involved in the party's fight against harmful doctrines. And what are the doctrines considered harmful by the Chinese Communist Party? Constitutional democracy, civil society and human rights. What kind of education would you have here, Mr. Secretary of State? And, yes, the latest news is that China Media Group, which is a little bit like Kunigunda Street, this Chinese state propaganda machine, has signed a strategic and cooperation agreement with Fudan just so that no one has any doubt about the role the Communist Party intends to play in spreading Fudan's ideology. That's right, they're going to spread Chinese communist propaganda. And, you know, it's infinitely sad when they tell me that, well, it's all right here, there's scientists, there's high places in the rankings, and so on and so forth. When CEU was able to produce similar results, if you look at the rankings, they were driven away. They were working until they chased that university away. At the time, there was no consideration of the number of rankings. Now, that's the point. From here on out, your standing on any university rankings is crooked, and that argument cannot be used. If CEU could have stayed because it was an excellent university, that argument would have stopped here. But he couldn't stay, because he organizes his life according to the doctrines that the Chinese Communist Party considers to be harmful, as we would also like to organise Hungary's life, standing up for democracy and the rule of law. And say it, Secretary of State, don't beat around the bush infinitely sad when a skilled, capable man sells his soul to the devil, but let us free their souls and tell them that this money is for Fidesz because the Chinese Communist Party doesn't see what it's spent on, but rather the European Union looks at what we spend the money on, how much it goes for corruption and how much it actually benefits the Hungarian people. Money from the Chinese is money that you will spend as you wish, and this university is a huge favour to your friends of principle, a huge favour to the Chinese Communist Party, because within the territory of the European Union, you could create a centre that could be used for anything. And as a former member of the National Security Committee, I know exactly that there are thousands of ways to influence espionage and countries; there are thousands of ways, and even when I was a member, I saw exactly how strongly we must organise ourselves and our defence, so that national sovereignty in Hungary is a reality, and not a propaganda product in the mouth of Fidesz and KDNP. You let the wolf in here. That's what Fudan is all about. And the reason we have to change government in 22 is because you are so out of your old self that you now see nothing of what is the direction of this country, of our well-being, of our health, of our place in the world. I want excellent education for all Hungarian students, not elite universities and ruined Hungarian public education and higher education. What I want to achieve in Hungary is that health and education are two areas of which there is no doubt about funding, and must be strengthened by a national consensus. This Fudan University is taking us further from our goals, not closer. It's not eligible, it's a national treason.
u2021-05-27-88	Dear Parliament, I'd like to inform you that we're about to take a two-minute turn. The three of us came forward... no, four of us don't go on like this, because that's gonna be a long one. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And now, for the first time in a row, Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm can speak in two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that Secretary of State Schanda said that the territory of this university will not be Chinese property, it will remain Hungarian-owned, because it has been an extraordinary foundation for what I wanted to talk about. Because if this is Hungarian-owned, and the main argument is that this university is ranked 34th, and by the way, there are countless Western European universities working with it, then I have now set up the principle that if the Hungarian government had gone to one of the top 33 universities in the ranking and told him that we would have made the university for you in Hungary on the credit of your country, and come here, then all those 33 would have said that it was good. Well, who wouldn't want someone else from someone else's money to build his university a new campus in another country? No? Well, it's a logical thing to do. Then I would also like to ask you that, after this first 34 Tsinghua University is the 15th, the University of Hong Kong is the 22nd, the Beijing University is the 23rd and The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology is the 27th, so before that there are four Chinese universities four! Which could come in practically the same way as this Fudan, but you just like to know why? Because this university is the Chinese Communist Party's own uprising, so here they form Communist, faithful people, who are nicely relocated to all kinds of fake jobs in the world, and they serve the interests of the Chinese state abroad, i.e. spies. Is that right? So they should not be received in Hungary, but when they come here and are caught by the successful work of the Hungarian counterintelligence, they should be expelled from this place for ever. But no! We bring it here, build a university for them, finance it, borrow it from them, and practically betray the Hungarian nation. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-90	Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP, in two minutes.
u2021-05-27-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I thought this was going to be such a long and thorough debate, but now I can see that we're ringing in two mills, so you're probably saying something, we don't understand, we're saying something, you're acting like you don't understand, but I'd like to say something very important to the Secretary of State, because he responded to one of my points. You've got me all wrong. I said exactly what Andrea Varga-Damm is saying, when did we decide on 500 billion, that we were building a university for someone else, and we made the first 50 in the world? That's what my fellow Member has just told me. I didn't say who was gonna be the contractor. Don't take me for a fool in that regard. Of course, I know it's not even about what it's gonna look like; we'll talk about what it's gonna look like next. I was asking why we didn't find someone else in the top 50 with an offer like that. Why didn't we do that if we believe that the break-out point of Hungarian higher education is to bring someone from the top 50 here and believe what you say that this will bring Hungarian higher education to the top 50, then why didn't we compete with it? [[15.00]] This is what I was talking about when I said that there was a competition: let's announce it, let's take a look at it, and it may not be possible that we might get a better offer, or that there might be something more exciting coming here, and you really don't have to explain to me about all the weird little background noises that my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, said quite figuratively here a few minutes ago. How much easier would life be? That's what I suggested, so you understand what I'm saying. Thank you.
u2021-05-27-92	Thank you very much. Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz, in two minutes!
u2021-05-27-93	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Member, I have heard an eloquent testimony that this is a political product on your part, on which I would like to say some nonsense. They object to the differences in payment between Hungarian and Fudan University salaries. That's obviously true. I'm not arguing with you. On the other hand, I would just like to note that I have never heard this excuse once, since the change of regime, about the difference between Hungarian universities or even payments at CEU. He says there were brutal power actions in China. No doubt that's true, that's what Wind Bernadett said. I can also understand that, on the basis of human rights, it responds to problems such as Hong Kong, Tibetan and other. I just want to ask you this: in 2006 there was a very serious, brutal action in Hungary, Budapest. [[Moraj from the opposition parties.]] No one has responded to it, even trying to deny it to this day. So we're gonna have to measure it by just one standard after all. Bence Tordai said that we do not support Hungarian students. I would only respectfully draw your attention to the type of benefits that Hungarian university students have. [[Antal Csárdi: Student loan!]] Take a look, be nice to have a dormitory allowance, housing allowance, scholarship scholarship, social scholarship, you can take on student loans. There are, of course, a number of other options for social scholarships. It's just that we need to know that we have these, by the way. One more question is what universities are coming or not coming to Hungary. There is a law that actually requires that a university that has a mother institution can train in Hungary. This is the case with Fudan [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Stanford doesn't?]] it has a parent institution, and it can come here and therefore continue training. [[Antal Csárdi: Oxford?]] That's what it's all about. He's not giving a double degree, he's giving a degree at Fudan University. Thank you. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Jesus!]]
u2021-05-27-94	László László Keresztes, Leader of the Group, LMP!
u2021-05-27-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State said that borrowing on Fudan would be some kind of political hysterical. That's what your boss told me in an interview that this is how they want to fund it. So you can deny that? Mr Secretary of State said that the constructions have now been developed, how this investment can be carried out and financed. Did they not think of a scheme for the Chinese university to be financed by the Chinese, that it should be paid not by Hungarian taxpayers, but by Chinese taxpayers? [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]] Hasn't such a construction ever occurred in the mind of a government lying to itself as a national? You promised the Hungarian universities HUF 1500 billion in EU development resources. None of this ever happened. Orbán once again lied to Hungarian universities. But don't talk into the air, Mr. Secretary, this money isn't in the recovery fund. If we look at it, there's no money in next year's budget. Orbán said that in a year or two, so much money will be spent on the development of Hungarian universities. Where are these sources? You mentioned, Mr Pósán also mentioned the salaries of teachers and researchers working at Hungarian universities. Dear Secretary of State, You've admitted that you've been ruling for 11 years and you haven't been able to achieve anything. So it was completely ineffective for you, and it was actually an, in fact, destruction, so it was possible to describe your policy in relation to higher education. Today, a university assistant with a PhD is working for HUF 277,000 gross salary. You just promised me twice a 15-percent raise. Is that fair to you? Do you think that's enough? Is that what a Hungarian university assistant must get, a university assistant working at a Hungarian university? Compared to this, you will pay ten times the amount of Hungarian taxpayers' money at the University of the Chinese Communist Party, ten times the salary of today's Hungarian teachers. He also referred to Minister Palkovic as an academic and scholar. I think that no one has questioned Minister Palkovic's expertise, but we have said that, and we will continue to say that he will give his name to a project that means betraying Hungarian national interests. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-96	Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, two minutes!
u2021-05-27-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. You know, my fellow Members, when you are young, you are even more interested in material things and you are interested in the present. If this law had been introduced in 90, I'd say I could understand you somewhere, because then you were called young Democrats, although you weren't Democrats, but at least you were young. As you get older, your thinking changes, especially when you have children and grandchildren, and it is therefore incomprehensible that you have been presented. Then you're more interested in the future, the future of your children. I can't believe you don't feel it, and you don't realize that you're selling, indebting our children, taking away the future from our children, from our grandchildren with the politics you're doing and with these laws. There's just one more question: what are you going to do in that particular hour, when you're going on a journey, because we're all going to go on this trip, on the road where you can't take your billions and your wealth with you, and nothing else, what are you going to say to your children then. If you look them in the eye, what do you say? That we were laughing here when Csaba Dömötör spoke, or that Bence Rétvári, who was the gentleman's party when László Kövér punished Peter Jakab? Yeah, we sold your future, sorry. Their own children, their grandchildren, are selling their future right now, they are indebted to the country, and they are taking away a future from their children that you would have been able to provide them, because if they had not used their power in the last 11 years to make money, but to create prosperity and work for the people in Hungary, we would have lived in a completely different country. Shame on you for taking away the future of our children and grandchildren.
u2021-05-27-98	Dear Parliament, We will now return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mátrai, Fidesz, the Housemaster of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today is T/16225. A general debate will take place on bill No 1. The preamble to the law provides fair and concrete guidance on the wide and high quality educational and research capacity of the university. I quote:. The fields of training in economic, social, nature and medicine, the strengthening of the Hungarian higher education institution and its environment ready to support innovative enterprises, the support of trainers, researchers, teachers and those involved in training. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, After long preparation, after several negotiations and negotiations, the construction of one of the world's outstanding university campuses, the Fudan Hungary University reached the stage of completion in Hungary. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán indicated to his partner that he would welcome the establishment of a Chinese university in Hungary in order to further strengthen cooperation in higher education, as early as 2014 and later during the negotiations in Beijing in May 2017. Chinese culture matures behind its back with thousands of years of experience and thought richness, the knowledge with which such a university is equipped. When we start a university, the daily political struggles of the world cannot be regarded as standards. They will be different today, they will be different next year, and in a hundred years they won't even recognize the changes, so the knowledge and experience that the university can bring to us is looking at greater perspectives than we can see at all. Fudan University was founded in Shanghai, the territory of the Chinese Empire, and has experienced many changes since its founding in 1905. Students and young people come from many countries around the world, so this university will be a real meeting point for cultures, from which Hungarian students can profit only because they can gain useful, complete knowledge and a globally recognised degree. The University will be a spiritual bridge between Asia, China and Central and Eastern Europe with all its advantages. We can safely say that Fudan University will be the Chinese Silk Road in the knowledge world. [[15.10]] The establishment and realisation of a genuine new university always raises the light of the country, the authority of scientific life. Many doubters most often refer to the Chinese political arrangement as an excuse, because that is what they always think, while some people take it for granted that a foreign money tycoon can establish an ideological training centre in Hungary called a university for the dissemination of its own ideas. With the appearance of Fudan University in Hungary, we think of the knowledge that can be acquired, universal knowledge, international relations, diverse education when we support the establishment of the university. In addition to developing economic knowledge, social knowledge is planned, and there will also be training in nature and medicine. In order to gain a better understanding of Chinese economic culture, an agreement was also concluded with Corvinus University last year for MBA training. The University of Fudan does not provide ideological training, but provides professional training, and students receive an internationally recognised degree. The aliens who lead the international university from the benefits of the world of former Moscow field training, because they always think of the Moscow Institute of old international relations, but the Central European University, the CEU, never do. Ladies and gentlemen, The Chinese university will not interfere with Hungary's public life and political system. His Chinese image against the university was stuck there during the cultural revolution. Since I've been to China several times, I've seen a XXI. The economic and cultural ascent of the century with all its useful and valuable implications. Within the framework of Fudan University, cultural, scientific and national diversity takes place in the heart of Central Europe. The university also wants to be a mediator in the Central European region in the relationship between Chinese and European societies. The establishment of a real university in Hungary is always a welcome development, even if it is initiated by other countries to disseminate universal and university knowledge. In Hungary, there is such a democratic atmosphere that students who go there can look at the world around them on the basis of their own knowledge and thinking. Such a university can show Hungarian life without bias, because students can return to their country with their own experiences, and we hope they will not be accepting malicious and self-interesting false rumors. Speaking of the political influence over recent decades, there are no examples of the Chinese state wanting to impose its own worldview on Hungary; rather, it is an important player in world trade, advanced industry and culture mediation. It is of no consequence that you can learn about Chinese culture here at home, make friends, eliminate fears and hostility. I would encourage everyone to encourage the countries and major universities of the world to set up similar co-institutions in Hungary, where English, French, American or Spanish universities can find their own audiences. The Chinese University will be an open window to the world, a useful part of which is the Andrássy Gyula German University in Hungarian higher education. Today, Chinese university education is characterised by diligence, professional orientation, practicality and successful learning skills, and competition and endurance will not be useless experience in Hungary. The objection of complainers may also be that the Chinese university is not spreading the ideas of liberal capitalism that some people love to the extreme in the world. I ask you, my fellow Members, if you have enough knowledge to say that for the future, the university trainings you are keen on today will be the best. At some universities in the Western world, even freedom of thought has been threatened today. In many places, training, dogmas, censorship and delusions are trapped, especially social science is at a dead end. In recent years, my fellow left-wing Members opposed the railway to be built together with the Chinese state, opposed and protested against vaccinations to protect Hungarian people, and now protested against the joint university. It seems to me that the problem with the left is not primarily the establishment of the university, but simply the problem of China's phobia. I would like to propose another aspect of the debate around the university. The opposition is attacking the establishment of the Chinese university almost in harmony with the Eastern relations, but think about how if they had real responsibility, how they would look into the eyes of countries that are constantly being hurt, wrongly accused, or sometimes violated by some misinterpreted commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, The civilian government is seeking balanced cooperation with the well-willed countries of the world. China is a player in world politics that does not want to shape Hungarian life in its own selfish image. The Chinese state does not attack, and in many cases has provided a helping hand despite the ideological differences between us. This is not true of all countries today. This good intentions and openness are governed by the strategic partnership in relations with the Chinese State. The opponents should also try to think about the feeling of Hungarian society! Where can they find others besides their own biased believers who consider it a bad thing to set up a university for non-ideological purposes that raises the country's reputation? We Hungarians have no reason to be afraid of Eastern culture, thinking, world view. Dear Parliament, Every brick of the construction stays in Hungary, it strengthens the diversity of the Hungarian capital, it organizes an abandoned, decayed part of the territory of the capital. He and the Student City fills the city with life. Could this have hurt anyone who wants to make their own home, the capital of Hungary more beautiful? The investment is carried out with a view to safeguarding, protecting and managing the national assets. The bill defines the achievement of these objectives as a public interest objective and an activity of general interest. The bill lays the basis for the expansion of the operation of Fudan University in Hungary by preparing for the establishment of a new Hungarian university with a trust fund. On the basis of what has been said, we can say that the resulting university strengthens the competitiveness of higher education in Hungary, in addition it provides opportunities for many large companies to invest in job creation. Since the appearance of Fudan University in Hungary will also serve the interests of Hungarian students, teachers and researchers, as well as those living in the capital, the aim is to create an innovative, high-quality investment with the Budapest Student City-South City Gate development programme, which is in line with the development directions set out in this area. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-27-100	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, György Szilágyi, may now speak. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, István Széchenyi, one of the most beautiful and promising eras in Hungarian history, said that the true power of the nation is the volume of the head of science. True, a multitude of educated heads are essential to the prosperity, development, but mostly peace of society. To this end, the State must make sacrifices: it must spend on maintaining and developing existing institutions. In view of all this, it does not seem to the devil that the current governing parties are putting forward a bill establishing a new higher education institution. It is a little strange that, compared to the resources spent on higher education, they suddenly want to spend a huge amount of money on the new institution, but basically the idea is, once again, not to be rejected. If we look at the bill before us, we can see that the new institution will operate in the form of so many debates, but not yet proven in practice. From the current governing forces, the practice of running higher education in an untested institutional form that raises many questions, can only be considered as an adventure with the best of intentions. [[15.20]] However, the fact that, even before the establishment of the institutional framework, the new establishment will receive university status is already very thought-provoking. At present, there is no education programme, no teaching staff or built infrastructure available, but the recognition of the future educational institution is already ensured by law. This goes against all previous practices. Why is this issue so important to the government now? Wonder why the government wants to spend the same amount of HUF 554 billion spent on full Hungarian higher education for this project, because although we do not know the exact amount, the total amount of state support and credit will be approximately HUF 550 billion. Then I could tell you all the professional questions by the end of the day, but we wouldn't get an answer. The proposed bill is part of a strange charade, which is not about Hungarian higher education at all. In hiding behind the noble purpose of training and education, Viktor Orbán tries to obtain international support for himself. Based on the information available to us, the Hungarian State takes out a large amount of credit from the Chinese State under adverse conditions with the aim of establishing a Chinese university in the capital of Hungary, also in an area where the development of Hungarian higher education was planned. This was the Student City project that the same government passed a law just three years ago. This, fellow Members, is far more than mere nonsense or adventure, a crime against the Hungarian people. There were no professional arguments at all on this issue, but only political arguments, and therefore this issue should not be considered on the basis of technical considerations. It is crystal clear that Viktor Orbán is looking for political supporters who overlook the autocratic driving style, the treading of democratic values, looking for friends who only care about money, just like himself, needs friends who, like him, are principleless and who make decisions without value for their personal enrichment. Orbán has previously rubbed against forces and leaders within Europe and outside Europe for similar reasons. Orbán's newest friend is China, who cannot be considered equal to Hungary, even in terms of our greatness and economic weight. Under such conditions of power, no one can think that Hungary will have a favourable agreement. Although familiar with Chinese corruption horror stories, there will surely be Hungarian people who will benefit from this business. China is not only simply infiltrating the European Union through this institution, but is building a new citadel, where it sets foot both politically and economically. If we think that Hungary's primary ally is the European Union and NATO whose military and security policy interests conflict with China on several points, then Viktor Orbán's attitude is difficult to classify as a betrayal. Strong words, I know, but I don't use them for nothing. Did Viktor Orbán request the offer of major European or North American universities in connection with a similar campus? Did he draw up a plan that would have implemented this facility from European sources as a kind of European Union initiative? What motivated Viktor Orbán to use the resources he could spend on higher education in Hungary as a lightning strike to support Chinese investment? Ladies and gentlemen, Orbán himself stated in connection with the transformation of the operating model of Corvinus University that their goal was to include Corvinus among the two hundred best universities in the world. We have not waited for the impact of the measures taken to this end, and we are already making a sizeable commitment, to say the least, with questionable results. Orbán welcomes the role of the Kuruc hero, the champion of national sovereignty, who rejects Western loans, previously the IMF loan, and recently the very favourable recovery loan provided by the EU. He wants to give up this independence right now, and he wants to borrow a huge amount of credit, which will be the responsibility of the Hungarian people in the future. If we also take into account the fact that Western loans would have been aimed at re-launching and boosting the economy, then the value and purpose of the current loan cannot indeed be justified. I would like to waste only a few words on the fact that this investment is surrounded by secrets and riddles, the terms have been encrypted for several years, the public has been disqualified so that no one can reveal the true intent. Unfortunately, we have become accustomed to the Fidesz governments not to impose on the people the reasons for their decisions or the details of their dealings. This step is just one line in which Viktor Orbán is indebting the country to his eastern friends. The first step was the settlement policy, the burden of which is still moaned by the country, followed by the most expensive railway investment in the world, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which is a project running since 2017, but still has little appearance and less results. Viktor Orbán is a swing politician who betrays his allies in the interests of personal interests and family business, thereby impairing the credibility of the country. Orbán's amok run undermines Hungary's relationship with the EU; I risk that Viktor Orbán's explicit aim is to degrade and disintegrate the European Union as a whole, and after that, I also believe that he wants to lead Hungary out of the European Union and to leave it. If you've been kicked out of the People's Party with a pair of legs, even though I know you're the ones who quit, then your goal is definitely not to be a member of the Union. The Fudan University project is nothing more than a fever dream, which the next government must prevent by all means, because I have no doubt that the current parliamentary voting machine will assist with this latest Orbán-dog without question and criticism. And if the question has been raised here in connection with the previous speech, where can we find those who would oppose the implementation of this university by taking out loans, by building a university for China with Chinese money and Chinese workers, it is similar to the Budapest-Belgrád railway, where we take credit, and with Chinese money and workers we are implementing a project that is not beneficial to Hungary at all, so where we can find people who oppose it, well, honourable fellow Members, out on the street, among the people, where we opposition politicians are constantly present where we talk to people. Go out on the street, you can do it here in Kossuth Square, ask people how much they support you to indebte the country, take away the future of our children, that we will continue to moan these big loans, or that our children will moan in the coming years, and whether they support the establishment of a university operated by the Chinese Communist Party in the place of Student City, which would have been easier for young Hungarians, even from a housing point of view. You will be shocked, my honourable fellow Members, because the Hungarian voters are significant, but I would also say that most of them do not support the University of China, because they know precisely that this is nothing more than your rubbing at China, they know exactly that this is nothing more than that you see another opportunity to fill your pockets, that the scraped-up property that may not be enough for you each, but would like to rip off as much as possible by 2022, of course, because you know very well that after 2022 you will no longer be in a government position. I believe that the submission of such billings is outrageous and outrageous. But to me, it is even more outrageous and even more outrageous that Fidesz MEPs are constantly trying to defend these laws. I know that there are honest people among them who may not benefit from this shit. However, I think that your willingness to sell and indebte your own country and to deceive your own children is, in my opinion, a disgrace. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.30]]
u2021-05-27-102	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, may speak. Here.
u2021-05-27-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us is clearly symbolic. Why is that? Because it shows the essence of the government in Orbán when it has a very, very narrow personal interest, and they give an amazing amount of hundreds of billions of public money from the Hungarian people and/or take on brutal foreign loans, in this case we are talking about a Chinese loan, otherwise even for decades in debt to Hungarian people. Of course, as far as possible, it should not reveal any details of the real financial conditions. People's opinions on this matter are not being asked at all. I wonder what you would say if it turned out that the majority of Hungarians do not support this project as much money as they do not intend to do to improve the quality of full Hungarian annual higher education and to allow as many children as possible to participate in Hungarian higher education. I think you would be surprised, fellow Members, because I see that the members of the Government are living in absolute envelopes. So you should ask people what they think about this project, and then they would see right away what kind of protest they can make about it. It is always a question for us in these projects what the Hungarian people profit from it. It is not the first time we have seen a product being manufactured, or, in this way, a foreign institution being brought here to Hungary, essentially a stamp from the EU. Neither production, construction, labour, profit, nor anyone else is struck by the Hungarian people. This does not give any Hungarian people an extra job, which makes it impossible for any Hungarian student to access education more easily. I would like to draw attention to the local people, so the people of Ferencváros will not profit from this either. It is outrageous not to ask people who are otherwise planning this entire investment in their district. It is no coincidence that we support Mayor Krisztina Baranyi's initiative by all means, so that there will be a consultation on the University of China, ask the locals' opinion, do not bypass the locals, because as long as it appears that this investment is in the interest of a narrow circle, while it appears that very expensive, paying services can be created with this investment, neither from the surrounding districts nor from the IX. A single student from the district will not be able to learn accessible to such an institution or any other service that is created there and cannot access it. The minimum would be that local people have access to services for free or at very low prices, have the opportunity to create jobs there, have the opportunity to relax there, achieve different recreational goals there. That is not at all the case, and it is quite clear that this is not important to you. It is also true of all other large investments that they can only and only be realised, and this applies to Budapest, subject to Annex IX. district and surrounding districts, that local people should always be asked about these and be mindful that they benefit from the investments. This isn't happening here. My personal insight is that this project will join the ranks of those, such as the Paks II project, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, from which there will be virtually nothing at the end. You're just trying to feed NER companies with project planning, legal advice, expertise, digging up a hole, then burying them, then digging them up again and burying them. They all carry the Hungarian taxpayers' money, and tens and hundreds of billions of forints will be sent out to NER companies. This is all taken out of the pockets of Hungarians, and taken out of the pockets of Hungarians during a period of crisis, when hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers lost their jobs during the coronal virus epidemic, tens of thousands of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises were either destroyed or bankrupt. For them, you don't give them any substantial support. Plus, there's a question of trust funds. It's obvious that you don't care about anything other than filling fidest private foundations with taxpayers' money to get public money out there. However, I would also like to tell you here that there is a very accurate inventory of what wealth will be transferred, and we will take the Hungarian people's money back from these private fidesz foundations until the last forint after the change of government, and where there has been lawlessness and crime, there will, of course, have legal consequences. We will charge everyone involved in the privatisation of Hungarian people's money. In the meantime, because it seems that you are not changing your policy, while you are still on the government, I would like everyone to participate in the consultation that Mayor Krisztina Baranyi launched from China University. In this all you have to ask the locals, the people of Budapest, so that as many people speak their minds. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-05-27-104	Thank you very much. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP, you can give your opinion.
u2021-05-27-105	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to express my shock, my indignation. Madam Admiral, it is completely unacceptable to try to make the crimes committed by the Chinese Communist State relativism, only in order to make this whole scandalous investment better. It is amazing that while he is relativizing these crimes, he is trying to present the universities of our European allies as an organization based on dictatorial principles. Shocking, I didn't see that coming. That's a depth I didn't think we could reach during the debate. What will come about is that nothing has happened in Tienanmen Square, that it doesn't matter, it has no moral significance that it is completely acceptable that millions of Uighurs will be forced into re-education camps in China, as has already been published in the right-wing press since 17 as well as articles similar to the fact that crimes against humanity against Tibet are all acceptable. Don't do this, fellow Members, because this is unworthy of the House, to you, to all Hungarian politics. I think that going in this direction just to tie a pink ribbon to the establishment of Fudan University in Budapest is totally unacceptable. It's something... it's really hard to find calm words for that. Please don't do this, ma'am. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-106	Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz.
u2021-05-27-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Márta Demeter and György Szilágyi told us what to say and ran away. I would just like to say that you say, Márta Demeter, the residents of Budapest will profit nothing from this. At the beginning, I told you about all the economics, but if you don't believe that, I'll give you a specific point. Only in the city economy in Debrecen are there foreign students who pay an annual surplus of about three billion. When we talk about Fudan's campus in Budapest, we are talking about large amounts of money coming to the local economy. So it's not true that you don't give anything to the locals. You'll have to see how many of these are restaurant owners, pizzerias, taxi operators, bar, cafes, and so you'll continue to profit. [[15.40]] György Szilágyi told me all kinds of things, most of all he pointed out that this would be a Chinese horse. You probably don't know, after all, how would you know, the Secretary of State also spoke about it, and I told you that there are already Chinese educational institutions in Europe, there is a whole network of Confucius institutions, but there is also higher education, in England and Norway. If they're not horsebackmen, then I don't understand why only Hungarians should appear as horsemen. Antal Csárdi was very shocked at many things here. I am shocked at one thing, Congressman, that you here, for example, did not condemn Gyurcsány's terror in 2006. Thank you.
u2021-05-27-108	We now return to the speech of the Members who have asked for a normal word: Mr Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member, may speak. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have also tried to make this proposal, which is closely linked, because we will discuss the proposal relating to Student City directly after that, so I have tried to prepare and set up an argument system. I knew we would not agree, it was clear from the history, and I didn't even think that we would have a meaningful dialogue here. I've been here for the seventh year, so I'm sort of taking off this mask, so I've been here for the seventh year, and I'm pretty much aware that we're gonna talk side by side. However, as a university lecturer, I was deeply shocked by what some of our fellow Members said. If I were to go back in order, I, too, would like to add a few additions to the remarks made by Mrs Mátrai Márta, the landlady. On the one hand, as a researcher, Hungarian, social researcher or social scientist, I would strongly argue, and how should I put it, that I express my incomprehensibility after the conclusion or the fact that social science has come to a dead end. I don't know about that. Social science doesn't know about that. I wasn't informed by my colleagues. [[Antal Csárdi: Didn't they tell you?]] Social science is alive and flourishing. All I'm asking is that we don't make such findings about science in Parliament. Let's leave that to the scientists. For once, I can tell you to leave it to us social scientists. The other one, he made the statement that the university wouldn't interfere with public life, the Chinese. It's just that the essence of universe is that it's a part of public life, it shapes it, it shapes it. On the one hand, there is a scientific community that is actively involved in public life, and not only in scientific public life, but also in daily public life, you have to see, say, in Debrecen or in Szeged, Mr. Pósán, how the research community of the University of Debrecen, as a researcher, is involved in local public life. So it's a perfectly normal part of it, on the one hand, so it's not true that the university doesn't participate. On the other hand, in part the problem with this Chinese university is that there is a fear that this particular university and the community running there will be very distorted in Hungarian public life. For example, if this type of approach speech begins to spread in Hungary due to their presence... even the university is not here yet, such a speech will be given in the National Assembly, which, excuse me, was a China-save speech like its order. So this also shows that yes, there is a very strong awareness in this, as I say, that the Chinese would like it, because they know exactly how and how they will influence the image of China through this and how they will influence it. To avoid misunderstandings: I do not conclude from this that no one from China should come to Hungary as a scientist and that Chinese university should not come to Hungary. Work with a Hungarian university, you can even build a campus from me. My statement is that not like this, not there, not so much, not in this form and many other conditions, for example, this has national security components and backgrounds. In parentheses, the congresswoman mentioned how good it is, because if this is achieved, then the Southern City Gate of Budapest development programme will also be implemented. The following presentation shows that the term "Student City" is deleted from the Budapest Act, so it is no longer a 'Student City of Budapest' Southern City Gate' development program, but it is only a "South Town Gate" development program, so the student city is even thrown out of the law, if I remember correctly, from Annex 2, but I may be wrong, and from Annex 1. The other thing that shocked me was the kind of attitude that we heard from Lőrinc Nacsa, who was able to say that he didn't understand why many people here are getting excited about Chinese university, because at least now these Hungarian universities will be forced to compete, and then we will find out who is better and who is working and who is researching me. So, honestly, as a university instructor, I'm deeply outraged by this. A lot of people don't know that university instructors make incredible sacrifices. A regular university instructor also has to work at night because he's preparing for class, repairing zh or otherwise doing his research, has no weekend because he's preparing for class, he's improving zh or doing his research, and a lot of specialties don't have much time in the summer, because then he goes to a conference or he does his research, and we have relatively little time to get a decent rest. In return for this, let's say a university assistant gets about 185 thousand forints, it's not accurate forints, but it's about 185 thousand forints net that they pay, if there's no tax reduction, obviously where there's a child, it can be higher. But by the way, a teaching assistant gets a lot less than that, a professor, let's say, if he's in category 2, he's about to reach the national average. The university teachers have a really meaningful salary, so let's say, of the approximately 20,000 full-time Hungarian teachers, 3,000 people in the order of magnitude. So we work a lot, they really don't pay us, and that's one thing, because sometimes you'd expect to be thanked for your work, okay, don't thank us, God, we'll swallow. But to stand up in the Hungarian Parliament and say that we are actually lazy and not racing, and what will bring us to a better job is to bring here a foreign campus for as much money as Hungarian higher education works for a year, that is to say, in view of the state aid side, this is a rather shocking reading of this story! It is only here that I very much disagree with what Secretary Schanda said that there is no point in comparing these two amounts. I think there is, because the state, through the various lines of the budget, can trace this to HUF-penny in the budget, puts a certain amount of money into Hungarian higher education. Obviously now, we don't know exactly what the next step is, but they're gonna put about 500 billion in the development of a Chinese campus. Now imagine giving this 500 billion to Hungarian higher education! Okay, we're gonna keep moving forward. The quality of Hungarian higher education is not so bad today as some people have tried to set it up here, because despite the fact that this is not the mistake of the last eleven years, it has been constantly present for many decades, well, despite the fact that we are short of funds, that the salaries are low, that we have to keep tricking about what and how we are going to go to a foreign conference, because there we still have to pay a certain participation fee and travel, what we say, from 187 thousand forints of adjutant salary it is difficult, and from what we do our own research and others; so if we take into account that we are working in such difficult circumstances, we are still concerned that the best Hungarian universities are in different international rankings, between 400th and 800th places, each university is elsewhere in each ranking. But in some specialty rankings, we even slip into the 200. So there are also areas of expertise, such as ELTE, that are within the 200th international world ranking in some university rankings, so it is not so dangerously bad. So let me tell you that if I just put in this 500 billion, divided into Hungarian higher education for several years, we wouldn't be here anymore. [[15.50]] But now imagine that every Hungarian university would receive an extra 500 billion in scale, which is now being given to this institution, to which Congressman Pósán said that it is not so great, it is not a giga university. Interestingly, he was just discussing that this is actually what is pulling Budapest's economy out of trouble, because of its revenue. Well, God, the reason why we note that an institution of this size, which will probably come into existence, although there is no doubt that we don't know the details, because sometimes we hear mixed information, has already started with 5-6 thousand students, and they will all be majors, but now they are talking about a complete training cycle, a university where 5-7 thousand students are studying, and there are about 1000-1500-2000 instructors, a very decisive institution, and it does put them in competition, putting all the major universities in Budapest, but also all Hungarian universities in competition. As a parentheses note, many people here have mentioned CEU a lot. I'm telling you in parentheses that this was a private institution, by the way, that worked on private money, but let's close this parentheses now. So, compared to Fudan, the CEU was a micro institution with about 1,500 students and a few hundred instructors, maybe around 200 of them. We felt the presence of CEU, our hearts weren't bleeding from it, we just saw the best instructors and the best students being sucked away on a nice and steady basis. Now, imagine what happens when a multiple of such a university comes here, with much less than state money, and we, who are in the system, in the non-curious part of Hungarian higher education because it will be a part of Hungarian higher education, just like the CEU was, so let's compete? So what's happening here is completely absurd. That is why I say that there is no problem in itself, I think, if a foreign university comes here and builds a campus, it may be possible for me to be Chinese, but on the one hand it should be a very thorough shot at the size of this. This should be much smaller, and it's quite clear that it shouldn't be built where it was designed. In my next comment, regarding Student City, I'll give you a little more detail on what the problem is. I'm sure you've heard of it, but then I'll repeat the problem of the owner of this area, and as the polls show, what is the problem with this placement in Budapest. On the other hand, it is necessary to take into account the background of this Chinese university. On the one hand, it's a really outstanding, good university, and it's always said that it's 34th place. There are all kinds of specialized lists, some of which have the 34th, some of which have the 160th, no matter what, it's a good university, it's actually one of the best in the world. So, in a scientific sense, it really is a good university, but it is also an undisputed fact that there is a very strong ideological background for this entire institution, and it cannot be taken lightly, and it cannot be done as if it does not exist, and it cannot be done as if through this it does not have influence or the opportunity to influence Hungarian public life or public speaking. And here I turn back to what I said at the beginning: it will affect Hungarian public life, which is why it should be smaller, and that is why it should already be declared that this can only be a campus that can be operated under very close national security supervision. What might be highlighted may be that, and here I am partly jumping over to the next presentation, that it is really one of the most important problems, who is aware of the state and state of higher education in Budapest, is precisely, you know, that college seats are always the most problematic. It is very difficult to get into a dorm, who doesn't get in, gets very expensive apartments, the rental market in Budapest looks very different than in Debrecen or Szeged. That is why I was very pleased myself, and many of the colleagues, when, a few years ago, Minister Palkovics, I believe, as Secretary of State, brought this subject to the Committee on Culture and said that the government would like to build a student city, dormitory seats. About 10, 12, 000 dormitory seats were mentioned at the time. We were very happy about this, and I was particularly pleased when I saw the first concept plan, which is really a XXI. It's a century-old, modern urban development idea, and that's how this whole idea was thrown out from one moment to the next. The problem with this is not that the city's very good development program was thrown out, but it is also a very important problem with the lack of cultural placement of 10-12 thousand university students. That's why I'm saying not like that, not there, not so much and not in this form. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-27-110	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the debate is closed. And I give the floor to Secretary Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to continue from there, to try to make some kind of reflection on the comments that I have not yet had the opportunity to respond to at this stage of the debate. On the one hand, I have finished with Mr Arató's sentences, and perhaps it is not worth talking about these comments any more. Here, the Member opened the question of who is good at this development, and he also made all sorts of absolutely amazing suggestions, and then perhaps other comments later on. Dear Parliament, The arrival of Fudan University in Hungary is clearly in the interest of Hungarian young people, it is good for the young Hungarians, and through this it is good for all of us, who are responsible for the fate of our own children, our future grandchildren, and it is good for the Hungarian economy, as Fudan University is not only the university coming, but also a contact capital, economic and research cooperation is coming, as has been said before. I have also confirmed to Mr Keresztes, Mr Group Leader, in my last speech, so I will also do so now that we will, of course, provide the Hungarian higher education institutions with the development resources necessary to implement the large package of development that goes well beyond the size of a thousand billion, which we have discussed here in Parliament several times. These resources will be available to these institutions, as the purpose of the national civil side is to make Hungarian higher education truly more competitive. Congressman Csárdi talked about a lot of things. The fact is that I am surprised at your comment because you are involved in Ferencváros as a Member of Parliament, even if not for this part, you could at least support such an investment. I think you know Ferencváros well, and you know precisely that the area in which this development will take place is in what condition it is: it is in a terrible state, one of Budapest's stains, honourable Member, one of its stains. [[Antal Csárdi, while his laptop, on which the map of Fudan University and Student City is glued, turns to János Schanda Tamás: The place of Student City!]] So you, who's involved in this area, have something to do with IX. district, you could be so loyal to your own territory that you can at least support it, even if the entire left-wing factions and the left-wing opposition object to this development. He spoke vegetables in many ways. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] But perhaps the strongest was when he started to push ideological questions. [[16.00]] After all, it is clear and clear that Fudan University was not able to be the 34th best higher education institution in the world with ideological training, but because it can deliver world-class knowledge. So what I would like to say to you, honourable Member, is that this is not a good counter-argument, as you have said. The good question is that we need an elite university, it's a relevant question, and we need it. What I can say is that Hungarian young people still learn from numerous excellent secondary schools in Hungary in different elite universities, partly with their own funding, partly with credit, and partly with a state scholarship to learn the most talented young Hungarians in the world's leading universities. We have a scholarship program called Stipendium Peregrinum, where the best young people, regardless of their financial circumstances, can study at the best universities in the world. This opportunity to do this much cheaper and in Budapest, you do not want to take it away from them, honourable Member. I think it's something that's really good for young people. We will have the opportunity to argue about Student City, and the Member has also spoken about this a lot. Allow me to point out that, in the case of many functions, joint exploitation may be possible. And I can tell you, and in connection with several speeches, that we are very happy to consult, negotiate and negotiate with everyone. That's what we did and we're doing it to the mayor of Ferencváros. [[Antal Csárdi: He told me!]] Mr. Mayor of Christmas. I think we had a 2 hours and 20 minutes meeting in the last round. I had the pleasure of attending the last meeting. I will once again confirm it to you because you have brought it up again, Congressman, on this issue of credit, that there is no decision on any kind of credit... That decision wasn't made either... in connection with the RRF. We will examine all the funding arrangements, and if we have the best financing arrangements, then we will be able to make these decisions. So it is a shame to accuse us of something we have not done, honourable Member. We're looking at every single credit facility. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you say that Fudanon can and cannot buy a degree, that no one at Fudanon will be able to buy a degree. Buying a diploma is an old left-wing trick, but Fudan is a world-class university. The fact that Student City is not going to happen is incomprehensible to the Congressman's statement. If we close this bill, then we'll be arguing about Student City. I don't understand how you can say that we don't want to do Student City, so we submitted a bill! We hope that the mayor, Gergely Christmas and the mayor of Ferencváros will also support the implementation of Student City. He also mentioned the wages, Mr Tordai, to whom I would just like to say that we are in agreement... and this has also been said in other comments, perhaps Mr Szabolcs Szabó mentioned the salaries of university teachers. We have also achieved results here, and I think that it is not worth denying from the civil national side that we have achieved results, but neither I nor any of us are satisfied with the wages of academics. It is not worthy of the wages that university teachers receive. That's why we think there's a need for a raise. There's gonna be a way to raise wages. And it is about changing models so that, in the medium and long term, research professors and academics working there can continue to receive better and better wages, as this way we can also include market resources in the income structure. That is why I find it sad that the left did not support the change of model, which made it possible for these wages to improve. I must also point out to Mr Tordai, that, of course, there is no agreement with any kind of company on the implementation. I have said this before, but it did not confuse the Member with what he said, and he had written what he had to say. The fact that it has nothing to do with facts and reality doesn't confuse the representatives of the Christmas party. We're not surprised. I did, because even from Bence of Tordai, it was surprising that he asked the question of calling Fudan a university. If we think so differently, and in this pro-Christmas universe, it is the case that you are questioning the university existence of one of the world's leading universities, not the party existence of the Christmas Party, but it doesn't make any sense to talk to each other anyway. So questioning the existence of a university at Fudan University is a strange and surprising story. However, I am pleased that now, according to the Christmas Party, consultation is a good and important tool. Of course, we will continue to negotiate with anyone, and we will be happy to consult anyone. There were other comments, really few of them, because I tried to answer everything. I once again confirm to Mrs Bernadett Szél that no decision has been made on any kind of borrowing. The problem is, if you don't listen to what I'm saying, it's very difficult to react to anything. We provide much more development resources to the Hungarian higher education institutions, but I have already told Mr Keresztes this. And the institution of the right to pre-emption, I think, is known to everyone, and there would be no need to discuss this further. I believe that I have managed to address all the issues that have been raised in each of the speeches. I hope that left-wing representatives, including Jobbik, have succeeded, of course [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Haha, Secretary of State! Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] I urge the Honourable Parliament to accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the implementation of the Budapest Student City proposal will follow until closure. The government referral is T/16226. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tamás Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-05-27-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have started with the renewal of universities in one of Hungary's most important nation-building programmes, because we know that the success of Hungary, the Hungarian future, depends on the success and achievements of our talented and well-trained young people. [[16.10]] In order for them to stand their ground, to have competitive knowledge, to face the challenges of global change effectively, it is necessary to acquire quality, modern knowledge that can be used in practice. This can be guaranteed by the change of degree in Hungarian higher education. Dear Parliament, Our namely cultural politician, Renewer and Savior of Hungarian higher education at the beginning of the last century, Klebelsberg Kunó warned that it would be difficult for a nation to start a real era of light, and that is why it is fatal if that momentum does not develop so fully, but breaks prematurely. Considering your advice, we can't be satisfied with the middle. Despite the forces of all small faith, perverting facts, blocking development from self-interest, the momentum of strengthening Hungarian higher education must persist, because investing in knowledge, investing in us is not only an opportunity, it is not just a way, it is a moral duty. The development of higher education on a historical scale, which has not been seen since Klebelsberg, should include and include the development of community spaces and dormitory placements of students as part of a complex urban modernisation plan. That's what the bill before you is about. Dear Parliament, Already in 2017, the government launched a HUF 220 billion national college development plan for higher education, which has produced good results in rural universities. We launched this by not being in an easy position, as many colleges with PPP structures still under left-wing governments were burdened with the budget of higher education institutions. We only spent 27 billion forints last year to replace these flawed, thoughtless and completely wasteful constructions. In the capital, we are now working on the creation of a new dormitory complex, the Student City of Budapest. The Student City is part of a completely new development program, which can be considered an epochal part of a new part of the city. Dear Parliament, If someone goes out to the development area of Csepel Island and Ferencváros, he may experience terrible conditions there. This is what we talked about in the debate on the previous bill, which is one of the worst and most neglected parts of Budapest, which, perhaps, will be strange to say, but it is true, even a rust zone can only be called with great goodwill. This is why it is important that the investment creates a new part of the city, and the capital's largest active green area can be built, providing a worthy environment for talented Hungarian young people with new community investments, learning and research spaces and modern infrastructure. Dear Parliament, According to the bill just submitted, Budapest's Student City will be implemented in the northern part of the development area, the capacity of which, as well as the accessibility of infrastructure, is the most favourable for students living or visiting here, especially if we look at the fact that the southern part of the capital is a thriving university centre anyway. In addition to the Corvinus University and the nearby Faculty of Arts, we find the University of Technology and several faculties of ELTE on the other side of the Danube. Dear Parliament, Péter Pázmány, the founder of the university, said, "There is no fire so great that they will not fall asleep if you don't put wood on it." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. After the renewal of higher education, we are now aiming at the creation of a truly prosperous Student Town. The complex development of the Southern City Gate is well suited for the simultaneous reception of the Student City and Fudan University, and the planned developments here also make the neglected rust area flourish and transform it into a vibrant, innovative city district with a significant green area. With mutually supportive developments, more than ten thousand students will be hosted and highly modern student quarters will be created at European level, and therefore the investment should also be classified as an investment in the general interest so that this fantastic programme can be implemented as quickly and efficiently as possible. As regards the current state-owned real estate, the company established for the preparation and implementation of the Hungarian State's ownership rights and obligations will be entitled. On this basis, and for the sake of the young people who will live here, they will spend their daily lives here, please support the bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-27-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Brenner Koloman wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask, Honourable Parliament, that you contribute to allowing Vice-President Brenner Koloman to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority has accepted my motion. Thus, Honourable Parliament, we are now taking place the speech of the speaker. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Szilárd Németh, may speak. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-27-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The development ideas included in the bill before us can only be measured for the. Modern Cities and Hungarian Villages. The government's aim is to simultaneously serve the infrastructure modernisation of the nation's capital and to make young Hungarians the winner of the future by improving the quality and performance of higher education. It can already be said that the decision of the Council of Metropolitan Public Developments, where the government, the metropolitan and the relevant district authorities are represented, will be fully implemented on 12 December 2019. It is indicated that the following developments will take place in the next 15 years in the framework of the Southern City Gate development programme: Ferencváros leisure and sports park, athletic center, training courts, public park in Csepel, dormitory accommodation in the area of Student City, the revitalization of the Danube rowing centre and the Ráckevei-Duna branch. In relation to the above, all development projects with the exception of Student City will continue to be carried out under the Southern City Gate programme, under the guidance of the government commissioner responsible for key developments and international sporting events in Budapest. The preparation of investments and, in some cases, the construction is already underway, i.e. the improvements recorded in the Council's decision are being built. Dear fellow Members, In connection with the development of Budapest Student City, it is worth to go back a few years in time and examine its history. Thanks to the dream killer efforts on the left, the idea of the development of the Student City emerged following the Olympic vision of Budapest in 2024. According to the cancelled tender, in one part of the designated area the Olympic village and in the northern part of the island of Csepel would have been established the warm-up tracks of the athletic stadium. However, the development process did not stop after the Olympic plans, because the Hungarian interest wanted it. The project continued within the Sports Facility Development Programme of Ferenc Kemény. In this context, it is now possible to build the National Athletic Stadium, as well as the preparatory careers, additional sports facilities, infrastructure investments, the Csepel Public Park, Student City and the Fudan University campus, as well as as the development of the World Athletic Championship in 2023. [[16.20]] According to the current plans, the South Town Gate, which also houses the Student City, is implemented in the 135 hectares of the Danube, Rákóczi Bridge, Kálmán Könyves Boulevard, Soroksári Road and Weiss Manfréd Road. One of the most important and largest urban development projects in Hungary in recent decades can start with the programme. Less than five kilometers from the heart of the capital, a sustainable, healthy, life-affirming city district is built with green, energy-efficient buildings that create modern jobs and learning and research spaces in addition to student accommodations. A new part of the city will be created, which will be the largest active green area in Budapest, public transport will be renewed and new public investment will be made. The development immediately creates outstanding value: the renewal and interconnection of the Csepel, Ráckeve and Szentendre HÉV lines, the realisation of the Student City; the new Ferencváros leisure park, the athletic stadium, the Csepel public park and the new Danube bridge will bring the area to life, and the new public park of North Csepel will create pedestrian and cycling paths, trails, clearings, sports fields, playgrounds, and an environmentally friendly water habitat. The South City Gate-Budapest student city building program will be a solution to the green recycling of the decaying South-Pest and North-Chepel rust zones, but also to the burning urban development challenges. Increasing the quality of the green surface in the South-Pest North-Chepel region and the creation of sport facilities that become accessible to all will help to protect the health of the population. It is also important to point out that next to the Student City, the campus of the University of Fudan Hungary is also placed, which also contributes to the transformation of the area into one of the most innovative, developing urban areas in Europe. However, it is clear from the left that they are trying to interpret the opening of the Budapest campus of the Fudan University, which is the world's leading edge, against the Student City. In reality, this cannot be interpreted against each other, because the university will be implemented in accordance with the development plans so far, and it will also make sense to the Student City, because college requirements, like in the case of large university cities everywhere, are significant in Budapest. The Student City is being built and provides a place for students of Hungarian universities in Budapest. So we can confirm that the Budapest campus of the Fudan University, which is considered the 34th best university in the world, is not built instead of the Student City, but together with it. Ladies and gentlemen, Walking and cycling will take precedence, the heart of the district will be a car-free zone, while the development and underground of the suburban lines and the extension of the tram lines will begin at the same time. According to the bill just submitted, the development of Budapest's Student City will take place in the northern part of the development area, which can be built in and accessible to the students who live or visit it. In the previous planning of Student City, the areas available for development were established not only by the State but also by the totality of the areas owned by the municipalities. This was also taken into account in the master plan for the development of the area. The area of the currently planned Student City is broken down by 5.3 hectares of state and 3.8 hectares of municipal land, i.e. 9,1 hectares overall. In other words, the Mayor's statement that the state wants to build the Student City on 5 hectares is not real at all, as it was in the master plan and in the previous discussions: the municipal areas must also be counted on the state. According to the experts' calculations, college development in this area can be achieved, mainly by building the number committed on a multi-annual basis. In view of the fact that the Southern City Gate programme covers an area south of the Rákóczi bridge, it may also be justified to acquire additional municipal, capital and private areas to further expand the Student City to the north of the current development areas, to the direction of the bridge. In addition, the long-term land band between Soroksári Road and the railway line, which is part of the territory of the former Student City, may also be relevant for enlargement. Developments can also help solve an old problem: although Budapest is an important Central European university city, the number of available dormitory seats is currently limited. The multi-stage investment of thousands of people in the capital will expand the number of college seats that have been missing for decades, so the improvements will also help solve this long-standing problem. Ladies and gentlemen, Now allow me to point out in particular that the submitted draft law is XLIX 2018. Law, i.e. the amendment of the Budapest Act, allows areas of sport in Csepel, which have been neglected in recent decades, once an important location for sports life in the capital, to be renewed and, in this context, to be developed for sport and recreational purposes, which are also close to nature. The sport infrastructure development programme concerned contributes both to the development of domestic competition sport and to the improvement of the quality of life of the people in Csepel by regaining and possessing the sports areas they have been deprived of for many years. The implementation of the development programme based on the former sports infrastructure of the Csepel Sport Club is of paramount importance for the renewal of sport life in Csepel, the protection and sustainable development of the sports infrastructure in Csepel, which can be achieved through cooperation between the relevant public and local authorities, civil society and other organisations and citizens. In any case, the development and operation will serve the original founding goal and its beneficiaries, as the Csepel SC is basically defined as one of the goals: essentially the district, in a broader sense, the workers of the capital and its agglomeration, and their children, were created to promote a healthy lifestyle and ensure their sport. Beneficiaries: Budapest XXI. population of its district, leisure, student, mass and competition sport. Unfortunately, in the history of our once famous sports club, it missed more than two decades when it could not fulfil its original function. The then 87-year-old Csepel Sport Club in 1999 was simply abolished by the then district MSZP politicians and by the club leadership associated with them. At one of the most successful, oldest sports clubs in the country, these good Communist party workers, Council Nazis and workers have accumulated hundreds of millions of public debt, and they have also squandered all property and property. Some were sold, others were completely bullied, scattered. The departments were outsourced or terminated, and in 2005, the remaining three large properties, the Peace Square Stadium, the water settlements at Holland Road and the Gubacsi Bridge were handed over to a developer. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] We were able to save the latter by buying them back for the sports life of Csepel. I've fought for 15 years to give the Csepelians back this property, the sports club that raises the ranks of champions. But now, thanks to the wise decision of the government and the bill before us, the Csepel SC can once again serve both the Csepel and national sports lives. It may be worthy of its old reputation once again, as athletes of the club, founded in 1912 with a history of more than a century, have won 20 Olympic, 68 World and 47 European championships for Hungary. The Csepel SC is a symbol of the district as well as the timeless legacy of the Csepel HÉV or Weiss Manfred. [[16.30]] I hope that the Csepel SC will not only be a Csepel, but again the pride of the whole country. The concrete development and scheduling plans will soon cost the government enough. One thing is certain that developments in sport infrastructure in Csepel match the overall development programmes on Csepel Island, so we are convinced that together they can lead to substantial and qualitative changes in the part of the city, the effects of which will go far beyond the borders of the district. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group supports the construction of Student City and sports development in Csepel, which serves not only the interests of the Csepelians, the Budapesters, but also the interests of all Hungarian people, as a matter of national strategy, as it serves our common future, the renewal, development of the nation's capital, the strengthening of Hungarian higher education, and the prosperity of Hungarian young people. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-27-116	Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament, may now speak. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the bill before us is integrally related to the issue of the campus of the University of Fudan, discussed earlier, and related to the establishment of the university, I, in my previous speaker's speech, have expressed a number of concerns about the University of Fudan, namely, in terms of professional, university and scientific policy, economical and international foreign policy. I therefore do not wish to repeat these in this context. However, I would like to go back to a little earlier phase of the Student City project, when we are now discussing this item on the agenda, ladies and gentlemen; since the 2000s, there has been an outstanding problem in the existence of university students in Budapest, namely housing, and, in particular, since the 2000s, there has been a price explosion both in the real estate market and in the rent market, because of very limited college capacities, right? Now, as I recall, it's been almost 12 years since the Fidesz ruled this country. During these 12 years, this type of situation of Budapest university students would be very miserable... I myself would be from Sopron, then from the countryside came to ELTE after a while, I have to say that this is a very big problem for many university students, mainly from rural, perhaps from poorer ranks, to this day. And after 11 years of two-thirds governance, you have not been able to make any meaningful progress on this issue. And the Student City project has been tried for many years to be prepared, negotiated with everyone, deceived student self-governments, and a hoof cut has not happened to this day. One cut didn't happen! You have been the responsible government of this country for 11 years with two thirds. Submitted at 1:00 a.m. on ParLex by an individual representative request, they can immediately give 100 billion forints; and this is your value choice and anti-knowledge and intellectual policy, but the students of Budapest have not been willing to help in this very outstanding and difficult situation for 11 years, dear comrades of Fidesz. These are facts, all the other slogans that the Secretary of State has said in his exposé. That sounds great, but what are the facts? You have not yet taken any meaningful steps in this matter. And then one nice night when the Fidesz government said earlier that Fudan wouldn't take land away from Student City, and then it came out from the bill before us, which was also submitted Tuesday night, isn't it, that this is going to be a joint project? And I would consider that number war, hectares, unworthy, so I will not go into what this area looks like right now, because let's face it, that it is your responsibility that there was a big project to finally create a large dorm center in the rust zone in South Pest and North Csepel for young people with poorer fates who cannot afford to pay for the horriable housing prices in Budapest. In comparison, you did not cut a hoe during 11 years of government, but suddenly, now that the Hungarian taxpayers' money is a few hundred billion forints in one night's bill, we only give it to Chinese credit, which even our grandchildren will pay, now suddenly this project gets a fantastic halo, as we have heard in the presentation. In my view, it is a confession that it is included in the bill that this project will be taken away from the Budapest Development Centre and handed over to the successor, the Construction Quality Control Innovation Nonprofit Kft., and beyond that, they provide for real estate. And I think it is very much to be supported by the fact that we are finally raising the Csepel Sports Club to its old light, but we note that the conditions for this great symbiosis that we have heard here, how wonderful it will be, I mean, the symbiosis of Fudan and Student City, will also mean that here, indeed, there are large foreign students who will be able to afford to set the price level in this area, and there will also occasionally be a young countryman in the dorm, who we say his parents cannot support. And then he, the Hungarian students, may not use sports facilities and libraries, but only, say, for a fee. So, let's face it, this looks a little different in the facts than we've heard in the expo and in the performance of the Fidesz lead speaker. And how Minister of State negotiated this project, accompanied by Secretary of State, is fully and perfectly reunited with the power policy, the anti-knowledge and intellectually fidesz policy that you are doing. So the fact that they're impersonating a trial there with Mayor Baranyai, mayor of Baranya, invites them in, shows them a presentation, which they should then approve nodding, while, let's say, a lot of questions are still open, I think this is not a negotiation. That's not the way to prepare a question like that. I didn't say that about Fudan University in my previous speech as the former secretary of the Committee of the Hungarian Rectors' Conference, I could have imagined that, let's say, the Hungarian Rectors' Conference has taken a position on this matter, but since then, how should I put it? in an infinite and humiliating manner of the Hungarian university world, the Mocsai Lajos has been appointed co-chaired by the MRK, who has no scientific degree whatsoever. [[Tamás János Schanda: He was elected.]] Since then, we know what the Hungarian Rectors' Conference is being held for: the congregation of a nodger who has one role always says that yes, what the party says is very good. So this concept and this implementation, on which you are, by the way, now, a few months before the elections, pretending that after 11 years of doing nothing for the university citizens of Budapest, this is ridiculous. I am asking you very, very much to withdraw this proposal. We will last a few months until, in April 22, the national unity government in which Jobbik will take a serious part as the only right-wing, Christian-social party of the opposition; and we will resolve this by consulting everyone, the students, the rectors, the mayor of Ferencváros, the mayor. And believe me, it's not gonna be this 11 months, and you haven't done anything for 11 years. [[16.40]] But we will carry out a fair, well-functioning, good project for our country, for the world of universities, for the South-Pest and North-Chepel regions, if the voters give us the confidence to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2021-05-27-118	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, can now speak his thoughts. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman claimed that Hungarian students should not enter sports facilities or libraries. Of course that's not true. But if we are talking about this law here, then we really need to ask each Member two questions for himself. These two questions are as follows. Does Budapest need dormitory seats? That's the first question. Second: does the area in question need development, rehabilitation? That's it. That's where the story stops. If the answer to these two questions is yes, I think it is, then everyone who thinks that there is a need for college places in Budapest and who thinks that the area in question needs development and rehabilitation will press the yes button in the vote of this law with a noble simplicity. We know exactly that there is a need for college places in Budapest. We see, for example, how colleges were rotted between 2002 and 2010, and one seat was not renovated, as a result of which the proportion of college residents was still 22 per cent in 2002 and by 2010 the proportion of college students fell to 16 per cent. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this has happened because the left has consciously allowed the Budapest dorm stock to be overrun. No money was put into it, the rooms were in the same condition as in the 1970s about, and as a result, fewer and fewer college students were able to choose this housing form. The other reason is that they wanted to build PPP constructions in the countryside, and they left it to invade in Budapest. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2022 Budget Act to be negotiated, there is HUF 130 billion to replace the next annual repayment of PPP schemes. So 130 billion is the amount for which, even 12-13 years after your government, the Hungarian budget still has to endure because of your consciously bad and good decisions for your friends. 130 billion! What could be created from what could be done if it were not to be spent on PPP schemes? ! It is particularly strange for me that Szabolcs Szabó, a Member of the Csepel Parliament, has become a candidate for the party and has joined the mercenary of the party who has banged the Olympics tender. This is the proposal that the entire country would have won, but that its biggest winner would have been Csepel, the Parliamentary Representative of Csepel believes that from now on he should be in the service of the Purple Agent Party Momentum, starting as their candidate, while they drilled a lot of developments in Csepel. Here, Szilárd Németh, Minister of State, spoke about a number of such developments, but many improvements that Csepel would have been involved were drilled by Momentum. But now, Congressman, you think that in their colors, under their logo, you should start with their support. We think Student City is an extremely important project. I ask you, I don't expect you to publicly admit that you're wrong and apologize, but at least admit to yourself that your last one-month fake campaign was false. Because you are here, through Mayor Baranyi, through Lord Mayor of Christmas Until Congressman Csárdi, everyone has said that the government will stop it and there will be no Student City. You have generated rumors and told me that this project is not going to happen, and this is being blamed on Fudan University, because you can only think of artificial confrontations. Always the either-or: either Student City or Fudan; or Fudan, or Athletic World Championship. The artificial confrontation, while we believe that projects are mutually reinforcing, projects strengthening Hungary's position and Hungary's economy can work side by side, and it is worth running and carrying out several projects, investments at the same time, and not through artificial confrontation to conduct the or-or policy of whether it is this or that. We believe that both, the three and the four projects are necessary, important and can otherwise be effective. I am very pleased that the number of Budapest dormitory seats is expanding in Hungary within the framework of this project. It is very necessary, as I said at the beginning of my speech. I think our priority is to ensure good quality, accessible, XXI. It is very important for students to live in the area of Student City in the centuries, and I think it is very important that this is the area of rust, if this is it, my fellow Members, if you have not been there to visit it, if it is a rust zone, then this is it. And now, with the support of this law, you can partially make up for your mistake, I think it's a historic mistake, we're not talking about it, we're not sure that it's on the political agenda, but I think it was a historic mistake that you didn't support the bill on the exploitation of rust zones. You see these landscapes, these places in Budapest, we can all list more of them, who live, travel and work in this city, but what we see is that the rehabilitation and development of these areas is absolutely necessary, so that they are not left there from a long time ago, they are just decaying old industrial areas that are not functioning anymore, but they are also living green spaces, moving, culture, education and the service of Hungarian people. This project is a model project of this project, if you will. I think it is important that the rehabilitation of this rust zone should take place; it is important that improvements be made here that not only benefit the people who live there, not only the students there, but also the whole of Budapest and therefore Hungary. I think that the formula, who can answer these two questions with a yes: there is a need for a dormitory place in Budapest, and there is a need for development in that area, and can answer these two questions with a yes, that has nothing to do but support this law. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-120	Thank you. The head speaker of the MSZP is Gyula Molnár, Congressman. Here.
u2021-05-27-121	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Congresswoman and Lords! I'm trying to put this in a little more context, which is what we're discussing here, and which, I think, is the difference between us. Ask yourself what makes a city a success. Ask yourself what makes a city live, what makes a city likeable. If these questions are considered as such a Budapest local patriot, I think they will be much closer to what we will be criticizing here in the next few hours or what has happened in the last few days. Yes, I accept that there are many different approaches to this issue. There are many ways to answer this question, and I think that many times decent people have tried to give appropriate and good answers regardless of their political attitude. I do say it everywhere, especially when you try to lobby abroad for your country, that you have a capital with a wonderful gift. It is a fantastic thing that history has shaped it this way, that on both sides of the Danube there are different parts of the city, the Buda Mountains are fantastic, but there are also equally impressive parts of the Pest plain, and among them the Danube with its width, our fantastic bridges, so, I have to say, this is a very big gift for a country. What I see as a problem is that we often feel that politics often feels that, and unfortunately, you have always been at the forefront of this, I must say, even if the political leadership in the capital may have been similar in color, that in some way the nation should be confronted with its capital. I think that's a very big tactical mistake. I have a very, very bad experience of the fact that it is not the case that we all look at our capital with humid eyes, and we are happy when those who do not live here, and in some ways we make it clear to everyone that the country is round so that everyone is proud of its capital, and we accept that in this capital medium there is, in some respects, more opportunity than, in some other part of our country. [[16.50]] So, there are many ways to look at it, to criticize it in many ways, that this kind of administration is correct. Many times, during election campaigns, at the time of programming, it comes up with the idea of being a city concept, that it might be necessary to attach districts to them, but I say that there is this beauty, this 23 districts with the capital, in some ways it is good that if we can move past these daily political debates, even somewhere I enjoy and love that the debate between the 23 kingdoms and the one kingdom is in some way right political products. And let me have another little historical look back. If you hold it, if you have a moment like that, the yearbooks of the Budapest Public Works Council, founded in 1873, you see very, very wonderful things. And, you know, what's interesting is that there's a huge difference compared to what's happening right now: that there were three players in the capital, three players in the government, capital politics and the entrepreneurial world who were able to unite their forces, think together, and try to finance this thing so that it does. If you really want to look at it, there is a map in it; there is a map of plans and dreams, and it is simply touching and incredibly thoughtful that roads lead to nothing; they are designed for huge avenues, what is now called Andrássy Road, and you can see that there are no houses there yet. There is an octagonal space in it, there is a circular space in it, and at the end there is a semicircular space, these are today, right, called Oktogon, Kodály's circle and Heroes' Square, and then there was nothing there. And that's where the city was built. There was planning courage then, there was political courage, and there was the financing background for them to dream of something that actually became a metropolitan city, whose traffic, by the way, lasted a very long time, its infrastructure held on to this thing, obviously now it's a little more tense. Or I'd like to tell you that there's always a debate about where the bridge should be. During the planning of the Margaret Bridge, the debate was that the Margaret Bridge was the bridge that led to nothing, that should not be made, we should make a bridge inside, because the traffic at that time, the transport structure at that time, would have preferred that bridge. However, that Public Works Council said that it was the Margaret Bridge that was important, and then the city was adapted, and the traffic was adapted. Now, why did I start doing this so far away? In addition to the fact that the lead speaker's time frame is 15 minutes, so that I can do plenty to say this type of meditation. Because that's the kind of thinking you've been throwing out over the past few weeks. And let me tell Congressman Nacsa quickly that, of course, the problem can be simplified as you say, and of course, yes, this will be a two-pronged vote on my part, but let me tell you: you shouldn't go to a surgeon, because, wouldn't it, then, it would look like you're going to be approached: you need surgery? Yeah. Where? In the middle. So that's not true! Or don't go off as an optician, you say you're not seeing well? Badly. I need glasses. What's it like? Well, it's that big. Therefore, I think that, as medical science is more differentiated, I think that what we are dealing with, the future, this kind of future, which clearly determines the future of this region for the next decades or centuries, is, in my view, more important than that. And let me quote from the speech of State Secretary Balázs Orbán when a bill on this project was adopted in 2018. At the time he said that the most important challenge, as he mentioned, was to put in place North Csepel and South Pest, the largest investment in the capital, the Southern City Gate, under the name of the development programme, to pay off old debts, to complete the urban development in a unified way, and here comes the point: the central element of development, I would also stress that it is the Student City, which provides the right accommodation for 12,000 university citizens, but there will be sports facilities, community spaces and significant transport development for all serving Hungarian sport and leisure sports. Now, that's the problem, see? That, in fact, we agreed that this urban development thing until 2030 was at the site of the rehabilitation of the failed Olympics, so that there would be a complex in which a variety of functions could stick, and now we know that there will be some reduced student city, which means a college, and there will be a Chinese university that the Chinese technical department will build in some form. We don't know, I don't know if you've seen what it's like here, obviously the Secretary of State will say, 'Oh, well, it's too early to talk about it, but if someone's looked at the drawings of the Norwegian company Snøhetta, it's, I'll tell you the truth, I, as the mayor who's been practicing this in my life, were really heartwarming drawings, airy spaces, the right things. So that it was also operational. And then I say to the lead speaker of Fidesz: yes, it would have been possible to save this sport thing in Csepel, if it was one of your most important questions right now, of course, you can also build the bridge, of course, and what we are talking about now, what is the biggest problem is that it gets mixed up, and we have the feeling that perhaps attention from this point of view will be more focused on Chinese university than on what we would consider important. Let me give you some numbers for the fun of it. There are 54 500 dormitories in Hungary today, because there are a lot of references to the PPP structure, there are 44,000 higher education institutions, in 5640 rooms in Budapest there are 14 399 students, with a total of 24 percent of them, and 3460 dorm students who live in rooms with bathrooms connected to either the room or two rooms or a few rooms. You've been in power for 11 years. I understand that it is a terrible burden to bear the faulty decisions of the previous government, but it might have been worth dealing with. And now there's this 8-12 thousand possible, obviously world-class or at least XXI. A dorm room built in the first century, and I think the answer to that is, of course, yes. But what about this area? Are you really convinced that you will be as proud of what István Tarlós and the now Speaker of Government Alexandra Szalay were then approved in such a design jury to do here? And now, all of a sudden, we're gonna throw that out, and I'm gonna tell you again, there's gonna be a college town and there's gonna be a dorm district, and that's not the same story, understand? Now, let me give you some criticism. I really do tend to reminisce and reminisce about it very often, don't I, I started with this, and I'm going to finish here that this town has to be something of a character or character. This could be an art town, it could be a party district, it could be a student town, but it's really going to make young people feel good about it. The question is, for example, that the city has a vane symbol, and the problem is that most of the city's symbols are XX. At the beginning of the century, or even more so, the 19th century. It's connected to a century. Think about it, the Heroes' Square, the Parliament, the Academy, the Chain Bridge, the Gellérthegy, the Citadel, I don't want to say these things now, obviously you all know them, practically the XX. The period after the change of regime did not substantially add to this, and now it is not apparent what this could be in the past period. And I am not very proud of what happened under the Petőfi Bridge on the Danube Bank, neither with the Pest side, nor with the Buda side, the residential part, the National Theatre, the Palace of Arts, or on the other side with the university city, these are not buildings that will be held for centuries... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Green Pardon!]] Once again, I'm going to be self-critical, or I'm going to be, but I have to admit that. And I wanted to say that there are the last parts in which the Danube bank is in some way, because the Danube bank is a key thing, the last part is where we can give this city a character or character that our grandchildren or great-grandsons will really be proud of. I'm afraid there's gonna be nerds and phalansters and non-livable spaces. [[17.00]] So, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in summary, it is important to say that when you are at the time of Mayor Tarlos with the decisions of the Public Development Council and with the reference to how important this is, compared to the capital and the district, you are doing something else, I think you have deceived the people of Budapest. I'd like to say here, not hurting him that I'm very sorry about Balázs Fürjes, that he couldn't take it any more. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-27-122	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of the Group of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Gergely Arató, notary of the Parliament. Here.
u2021-05-27-123	Today we have talked more about the Trojan horse and why this investment package is such a Trojan horse. Let's add that this is a unique, inverse Trojan horse, because for the first time we saw the Achai, the Chinese university, we see the tree now, so to put it this way, the cover that you are trying to conceal the true nature of this investment. Obviously, it's no coincidence that the government suddenly remembered to prepare a parliamentary decision for an otherwise long-standing plan, in case it's wrapped around it. [[János Schanda Tamás intervenes.]] I'm sorry, bill, you're right, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry we believe you more or you don't realize what this is about. I think that I rarely agree with government plans, but when it came to the fact that the otherwise flawed Olympic developments were replaced by a higher education development, a student city, I think there was complete consensus in this, even though we understood that, of course, this is partly because of the fact that friends, relatives and business partners who have already been promised to invest in construction are not without work. If at this price, but at least we all hoped that the capital would otherwise develop, there will be an investment that will be good for the capital, and it will be good for the students who live there. It is just what happens, my fellow Members, as in the classic joke, when Serezha always takes the cooling machine parts home from the refrigerator factory, and when he puts them together, he always becomes a tank. That's what happened here. They started planning Student City, and then they were planning it until it became a stadium building. Thank you, Mr Németh, for the fact that in part of your contribution, which was not the same as that of the Secretary of State Schanda, it is very nice to have such common ideas, in his further part, you have given a detailed account of the sports improvements that you intend to sell in this project. We continue to claim that, well, that's what the capital may need less than much else, athletic stadiums, warm-ups, and a number of other things that you've listed. The capital has much more serious problems, whether in transport or in health care or in how the capital's inhabitants live [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Christmas Gregory!]] Of course, outside the Buda Castle. Don't look, don't be surprised, Secretary of State Nacsa will be next time, he's still Congressman, but if he continues like this, he will surely get ahead, if his memory is so short, and he doesn't remember that for nine years there was a Fidesz mayor, he should also be angry with him. Of course, we're not talking about nine years of problems, and we're not talking about two years of problems. There are a number of problems in the capital that are far ahead of the construction of new stadiums. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) But what happened to the basic project itself? Well, that's what happened, and I'm sorry, the rest is that they took away most of the available space from Student City, gave it to Fudan University. Community spaces, which are otherwise wonderful, excellent, and which we would rightly be proud of when they were built, were taken from Student City and given to Fudan University. And what exactly do you need this bill for? Well, not to build this investment, because otherwise, this kind of bill would have been here a long time ago; it doesn't have to be anything; to distract attention from Fudan University, on the one hand, this bill is what we need, and on the other hand, if we're going to be together so nicely, they're going to classify it as a major investment in order to leave the capital and IX out of it. district. Well, that's the purpose of the exercise. So Student City is; and for a bill that gives you the power to build anything instead of Student City, we will not give our consent. Build a Student City, get back to the consensus, and then we'll be partners again. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-27-125	Thank you very much for the floor. After the Fudan Act, I promise you that I will be extremely brief, and I will not take up your time, and I will not play the kind of unfair game that you played with Krisztina Baranyi and Gregory Christmas pretending to be. It would be a stand-alone suggestion to pretend that this has nothing to do with the previous law, understand the Fudan Act. I think that these two stories are so common that I think that it would not have been unreasonable if these two legislative proposals had been discussed in a joint debate by the Hungarian Parliament. But I think, oddly enough, for a keynote speaker, I'd like to begin by correcting what Nacsa Lőrinc said, who said that you were-or-or that we were saying that there would be no Student City. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what he said!]] But the thing is, we're not saying that, we just had an agreement. Among gentlemen, this happens when the two gentlemen agree with each other and then stick to their word. Now, the Fidesz government is so far from the gentleman category that we should probably measure the distance in light years. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Gender quota!]] because what happened was that, pretending to negotiate, and I referred to it at the beginning of my speech, they were practically trying to put the city's leadership on the table. Otherwise, this initiative, or attempt, or procedure, is the most accurate term to continue with the law before us. 'Cause what's happening? They make this investment a major investment, and from now on, as we have been used to, no one, not the capital, not the district, not the population, no one has a say. Your name is the government's message. Reset your mouth, and we'll decide what, where, and how much for you. It doesn't matter rules, and it doesn't matter anything, it's just what we've come up with, which, by the way, is constantly changing. It doesn't matter what kind of agreement the Hungarian Government has with Gergely Christmas, it doesn't matter that the Hungarian Government and Krisztina Baranyi IX. The mayor of the district agreed, mutually accepting the terms of the agreement, the only thing that matters is that the University of Fudan is able to provide an area in this area. It's worth looking at for a moment, because you can see it here. [[He's pointing to a sheet of paper on top of his laptop.]] With the original placement of Student City from here to here, at the moment, this area is reduced to the blue spot. So the size of this project was shattered like the Australian natives put their victims' heads together. It is shocking that everyone, a student, a teacher, a professor, a citizen, the mayors, has been tricked into making sacrifices in this area to the Socialist or Communist Republic of China, who, by the way, is extremely close to you. [[17.10]] Well, thank you very much. I think that this is the most outrageous scam Hungarian public rarely sees. I really don't have to say any more about this law, because on the one hand, what law is being passed today, and then tomorrow, they'll write another one, what kind of agreement they'll make with society or anyone, it doesn't matter, because you can always kick it up, if there was a law, and then they'll write a new one, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it's just in your current interest. When I discussed the previous law, I talked about where this is morally, and I think that one thing is certain and well seen from the territorial proportions: you sold the housing of those students to the Chinese Communist Republic, they were the target audience of Student City with community spaces, with a lot of developments that would have been eligible for both opposition and government parties, you sold it all for small money to the Chinese State, but I would not be right about that, because it was sold in such a way, and it is a real Fidesz Hungaricum, that it is not paid by the Chinese state, but by the Hungarian taxpayers. Shame on you! Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-05-27-126	Dear Parliament, Member Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group, has withdrawn his wish to speak. I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Mr Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-27-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to pick up somewhere where I left off my previous proposal about how I really feel about the student city investment. In parentheses, however, I would like to say that many people here have mentioned what this area looks like and that the area covered by the law is much larger than this Student City in itself, which has been mentioned by more people. Here we are talking about the building of the athletic stadium, the one who goes there is in the process, he can see it on a daily basis. That's why the VAT doesn't go, for example, and although they promised that the VAT would work as of January 1st, but it doesn't work, God, they tricked us with it. But there's a stadium built there. Then there's south of the stadium, so it's already south of the Kvassay lock, part of the VITUKI's remaining building stock, where not so long ago there were labs and apartments, service apartments. It actually popped down in the last year or two when they stopped working there, especially when the residential function stopped, because people were evicted. And we're talking about a relatively large, contiguous land. It's a little euphemism to say it's a green area, because don't think about park. It's a bushy, sloppy area, but there's nothing green in there. So, in fact, if you take the literary term literally, then the whole area is now less a rust zone, because part of it is a rusty green area, in other parts the construction is already underway, in a third part practically a private investor has prepared the area a long time ago, so that almost everything is broken down, and only the building of the Nagyvásártelep is there, its surroundings are planned, but it looks more like an uncared park at the moment. In fact, even this area is practically covered by the OBI's current territory, as the concept of Student City extends to that area as well as the FCSM still has certain buildings, so there is the area south of the Rákóczi bridge. So, this is what we're talking about, plus that sports package in Csepel that Szilárd Németh was talking about here. I'll talk about it separately for a few sentences. So, this is pretty much the area we're talking about. In itself, the development of this area is a very good thing. For many decades there has been planning and thinking on the part of the Metropolitan Government about what to do with it. For many decades, the concept of the Csepel public park has been developed and developed, and it has been in the minds of city planners for a very long time, for example, to create a large park chain, which, if the map is pictured by everyone, can easily imagine that the Margaret Island, which is such a large connected green area, is the City Park, the Népliget and the Csepel public park. This was invented so that there would be a green park here in the first place, because then there would be a park ring on the edge of downtown, which would help the people living in the downtown to relax, and on the other hand, the condition of the air would obviously be greatly helped by the many green vegetations. The fact that we've finally come to the point of moving forward in this is something I'm very happy about. The fact that there's a stadium now, unfortunately it's decided, I can't do anything about it, it's going to end. Then you can say, of course, end it, much better than stop it. The fact that there's a so-called Student City, I was very happy about it. At one time, this would have been practically part of the Olympic Plans, so there would have been the Olympic Village where the athletes and coaches were accommodated during the Olympics. It's just that there's no Olympics to think about what to do with it. In parentheses, for the sake of historical fidelity, I have no business defending Momentum's initiatives, but that initiative was about making a referendum, so it started collecting signatures. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Nolimpia!]] the Moment to have a referendum. More than 260,000 signatures gathered; a referendum should have been issued. So what happened? They were scared, and they didn't dare trust people with the decision. Thousands of people signed in Csepel, too, because the Csepelians said that they wanted to decide whether they wanted a referendum. You didn't give the Csepelians and the Soroksharans the opportunity to decide. Unfortunately, the facts, numbers are stubborn things, it was a referendum initiative, it's a fact, it would be a shame to deny it, because it was. So, this is the area called Student City, where the Olympic village would have been. They didn't know what to do with that for a while. In all other areas, sports investments have actually started to be prepared and continued as if we were still preparing for the Olympics. They didn't know what to do with that. They figured out how to get a dorm. This is what I said in my previous comment that I was very happy about this, and the universities were very happy about it, as well as university citizenship in general, because, as I mentioned earlier, there is a shortage of university seats in Budapest, and rent prices are very, very high today, and it is often difficult to access even for a lot of money. So it's okay on its own. The problem is that this story is reversed, and most of the project now wants to build a Chinese campus and repress the dorm function for the smaller part. And you can't really understand it. If you look at the map, it is clear that in a much smaller area, there is obviously no room for as much dormitory space as the larger one; it is in principle possible that if you extend the buildings horizontally and compress them, it is only likely that the settlement plan, using the old word, will not allow, because such brutal rules should be allowed that such towers should be built as MOL on the other side of the Danube, which, let us be honest, will not be the most beautiful building in Budapest, so that the city's silhouette will be badly destroyed, but this is my personal opinion, and I would rather not open this debate. So, it's a matter of fact that student city has been neutered in this sense, a Fudan-campus-building program has turned into that element of this big package, and the smaller part of it will be reduced to all dormitory seats. Szilárd Németh said that in many years everything will be built at some point. We can't be more specific than that. It would be good if the planned 10-12 thousand dorm seats were to be completed according to the original concept. That is why it is difficult for me to support this project. Bracket: I am very happy that Szilárd Németh said how good it is, so finally the HÉV will be renewed, continuing as a metro to Kálvin tér. I remember when you came up with the Olympic plan, and it was said that the Csepel HÉV will be turned into a tram, and it will turn on the surface somewhere on Haller Street, across Master Street, there was a very confusing concept, and I dared to stand up here in Parliament, and I mentioned that there has been a transport development concept in Budapest since the late '60s, that the HÉV, I mean the Csepel HÉV and the Soroksár HÉV, and its Racks should be connected, it should be brought into the ground, it is called metro 5 instead, it should be moved in this direction, because the tram formation will not be good. [[17.20]] So I got it from Fidesz of Csepel, Szilárd Németh, that I'm against development, and I'm thinking very badly. And when I asked what it was, Secretary General Major stood up and said that I was bad and evil, because I wanted to build an expensive subway, there would never be any money for that anyway, believe me, the tram would be much better. I'm just asking you to think about whether you should be H.I.V., stay there, go underground and continue as a subway. It's coming true. Just so we don't pretend that before, a few years ago, they didn't say the opposite. But I'm glad that this is going to happen, so the case itself, it looks like it's going in the right direction at least. So, with this concept of development, I have a problem, which affects the areas of Csepel, Ferencváros in the vicinity of the Kvassay Bridge, that the concept of Student City has been very brutally modified, and instead of fraternity seats, they build Chinese campuses and crowd out dormitory seats. The following is my point: I would like to say a few sentences about this too - : Szilárd Németh already mentioned that Csepel SC's former properties, including two, the Sports Camp in Béke Square and the kayak-kenu plant, would be subject to a high level of public interest investment. Szilárd Németh did not fully explain all the elements of reality, because he forgot to tell us that he was the biggest real estate baron of Csepel in the meantime, since the foundation founded at his address, which then built the wrestling hall on the Dutch road in Csepel, of course from state money, bought the ownership of the company that owns the founder's rights to Csepel SC, so in practice, through multiple transfers, but it became the faith trust of Szilárd Németh. Szilárd Németh is very right about that, and what he said was true, that he fought for the Csepel SC for 15 years, which once belonged to the Csepel Works, and then the successor companies created the foundation form for this, just as he did at the Workers' Home, and many and the loudest Szilárd Németh said that he did not agree. Actually, I could agree with that then, and I can agree with that now, but you're just making it look like his demand has been fulfilled. In reality, Szilárd Németh has been asking for the municipality to become the municipality for 15 years. So what happened? He didn't go to the municipality. He went to the foundation of Szilárd Németh's foundation. That's what happened. Of course, you can say that this is back to the Csepelians, but it didn't belong to the Csepelians, so let's face it. And you will be able to say that now everyone is free to go to these areas. For example, I've been at Ludasi Robi's several times, I've always been free to go to the kayak-kenu colony, and everyone could go there to play sports. It was a little more problematic at the Peace Square Sports Camp, which was really crappy. But just because he wanted to get him back as mayor, Szilárd Németh, they ordered a change ban, so the owner couldn't do much with it, and that's partly why he popped. And sooner or later, he's probably tired of funding the maintenance and development of a property he doesn't know much about. I was supposed to do that, and I complain that they didn't give it to the municipality, but I don't know what kind of money they gave it, because to this day they didn't tell me exactly what kind of money they were able to buy it and how much it was worth. My other heartache is why it didn't belong to the local government in Csepel. As an example, I can bring up such things as, say, why the Csepel wrestlers don't train at the KIMBA Hall. Why did they have to beg in the empty gymnasium of the Jedi before the renovation? Or aren't they chatty? It would be difficult to explain this story in a way that everyone in this room understands, but the Csepelians understand what I'm talking about. We fear that, since this was given to Szilárd Németh, it will not be as easy to use for everyone as the warriors of Csepel cannot use the hall of KIMBA. I'm telling you, they're training in the gymnasium of a high school building that's about to be renovated. Hell knows what they were fighting about with the president, but they had a fight about something, so they can't go in there. Therefore, I would ask you to consider this once again, and I would also ask Szilárd Németh to reconsider that it would not be good for the Csepel SC to be the founder of the Csepel SC in accordance with the principle that you have rightly expressed for 15 years, and the right to decide what should happen there. I'll keep it in parentheses, although everyone in this room obviously knows, but maybe if someone's looking over the Internet, they don't know there's a Fidesz municipality in Csepel. So when I say that it should belong to the Csepel municipality, I don't want to hand it over to the evil opposition, because there is now Lénárd Borbély Fidesz mayor. What I'm saying is that it should belong to the local government of Csepel at all times. These are the two main problems I have with this proposal, and I will therefore not be able to vote in favour of it. In fact, I will not be able to vote for it, because I think that Csepel SC and its real estates should be in the hands and under the supervision of the municipality, and on the other hand, as a university lecturer, I think that students of Hungarian universities in Budapest need 10 to 12 thousand dorm seats. Let's find a place for Fudan somewhere else, in a smaller size I referred to earlier that I think it is too big, somewhere smaller, to build it, and to think about financing it, because this construction is not necessarily good either. I can absolutely agree with the rest of the project, as we have been talking about it for many years. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-129	Thank you very much. I'm glad Gyula Molnár came back to the gym. [[Gyula Molnár: That's why I came back!]] Thank you for your career advice on what to do and what not to do. I try to learn from the mistakes of those who walk in front of me and are more experienced and older. You were a party president. That didn't always work. But thank you very much for your career advice. And if your comment is already related to the bridge head of Petőfi Bridge in Buda, well, I went to the party under your mayor's office to the bridge head of Petőfi Bridge in Buda, where the purity was not always greatest. But we were happy to be able to party. The honourable Member raised the symbols of Budapest. I think it's okay that Parliament, the Castle, the Citadel, the Heroes' Square are symbols of Budapest. But one thing was left out of this urban development idea: for forty years, the beautiful rooftops were demolished, for 40 years, the plasters, the plasters, the beautiful balconies in this country, for example, near the Andrássy Road you mentioned. The congressman knows very well that there was a process of retrogression at that time. I think you can argue over blueprints, what it was, what it wasn't. In recent years, I have not heard such a Tarlós István campaign from you, as you have just put down with Mr Arató, how good that concept was. They were a year and a half too late to campaign; it might have been more useful if they had campaigned for the plans of István Tarlós. But the fact is that in that area, as Mr Szabó said, he needs to be improved. He told us what was there, we all know exactly what was there. It may not be a rust zone in the classic sense, but it's basically a rust zone. There the development will also serve the future and learning of young Hungarians. You can, of course, argue about the constructions in urban architecture, but with the function, you must not argue with the aim. The point is that the young Hungarians should be the winners of that development there, and I very much hope that they will. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, Minister of State, Fidesz Group.
u2021-05-27-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to the false accusations or lies of Szabó Szabolcs. It seems it is no coincidence that he is one of Gyurcsány's best people in Csepel, Ferenc Gyurcsány made this quite clear already in the 2018 campaign. [[17 .30]] They were hugging each other in the campaign at Görgey Artur Square. But that's not the important thing about this, but actually the two lies, three-four-five-six, that were behind his words. I'd like to draw attention to two. I don't have any foundation registered to my place of residence. Kozma István Hungarian Birkós Akadémia Foundation is registered under number 8 of 1213 Budapest, Hollandi út, and my apartment is 1213 Budapest, Sügér utca 9, from there about three kilometers away. The other is that I remember when, along with his current party companions, Gyurcsány's allies, they drilled and carved the 2024th or possibly the 2028th Olympic competition in Budapest where they could. So Szabolcs Szabó, not only did he support it, but he stood up with them to collect signatures. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Nolimpia!]] Nolimpia, that's right, that's exactly what this is about. Everyone's been misled about the Olympics. What you've shown me about Csepel's progress, I don't fully understand. He talks about the fact that it's a big lie, too, that he supported it even when the foundations, the Workers' Home and the Csepel SC Foundation were founded. 1991? Well, where were you in Csepel then? Nowhere! I was there because I was born there, and I've been living there ever since. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-27-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, independent. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-133	Thank you very much. I'll take off the mask. Undoubtedly, it's an interesting reasoning technique to claim something I didn't happen to say, and then find out that I didn't tell you the truth. For example, I didn't claim that this foundation is now registered to your address. I claimed that when it was founded, it was registered at your address. That's right, I've got a copy of it. Now, in the court records, of course, he's not there because he's been transferred to Holland. That's what happened. Before the Cultural Committee, when we asked him about it, he said that we did it because you said so, because it was the fastest and the easiest. You haven't denied it there yet, and now you're denying it? On the other hand, I didn't say I was at the foundation of foundations in '91. I said it came out that way, and I said I wasn't sure if it was the right direction. I agreed that when you referred to it, for 15 years, you said that this should preferably be an asset subject to municipal supervision at some level. If nothing else, through the delegation of the Board members, the municipality should have a view of the working home and Csepel SC. You can look back, I've always told you about the working home that you should come to an agreement, that you should have one or two extra members of the municipality. I think it's the right direction, and then you can stop fighting. That's what I always said. And the NOlympia campaign, no doubt, was about making a referendum. I never said I supported the Olympics. We collected signatures to make a referendum. If someone asked me, I said I didn't think the Olympics were a good way to go, I'd vote no, if there were, we collected signatures so there would be a referendum so the Csepelians could decide. So none of your claims were true, which you contradicted. It's hard to argue that way, let's be honest. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament. Here you go, ma'am.
u2021-05-27-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government presented T/16226 on the implementation of Budapest Student City to Parliament. of the European Parliament and of the Council. Within the development of the Budapest Southern City Gate, the bill aims to implement the Budapest Student City as a major public interest investment in a renewed framework. Dear Parliament, The rules for the implementation of investments in particular public interest are set out in XLIX 2018. law, the law of Budapest introduced and created a new concept. The Act in force since August 2018 explained that by adding the category of investment of a particular public interest, it made it possible to prepare and implement further important investments of particular public interest, in line with uniform regulatory principles, as well as in line with the nature of the investments and the characteristics of the venue, more effectively. As far as the investment is concerned, this means that in practice it will, as has been done in many cases. Dear Parliament, After the period since the change of regime, the question arose almost every day about what to do with the wasted areas in the country. The neglected outer districts of the capital city, the lost parts of their function, were also caught in our eyes. These areas were named rust zones for a reason. The term rust zone does not seem excessive in areas that undermine the capital cityscape and require urgent rehabilitation. These properties are now out of use, broken-down industrial sites with ruined buildings and abandoned industrial facilities. The Hungarian government recognised the importance of the fact that since the territories belong structurally to the capital, they must be corrected and a XXI. Builds a Student Town that meets the requirements of the century. We can ask the question that there is a more reasonable and far-reaching option than that of the government renewing a neglected point in the capital for the sake of youth, education and future generations. With the expansion of a university and its environment, the entire Student City will be more valuable, colorful and complex. There is already the National Theatre and the Palace of Arts, with which the planned additional structures will form a unified cultural centre. Experience is that in the capital, only what the government can build for the pleasure of the capital is built. This is the real meaning of the priority investment. While the government is thinking of country building with a creative, creative philosophy, left-wing politicians are destroying anything that can be touched in order to show some strength, political gain. Unfortunately, the recent years have shown that the Olympics, the Liget project, the reconstruction of the Chain Bridge and many other investments, if we rely on coordination and cooperation with the left, will never be implemented. Their own plans, initiatives and ideas do not exist, but they are extremely active at national or local level in destroying existing plans. We have no doubt that they would be able to sacrifice all constructions on the altar of power, whatever useful it is to the city or the country. They were against the government's success, so they couldn't cooperate even during a pandemic. This is why a number of legal provisions are needed to ensure that the programme is implemented. Dear Parliament, There is no evidence of any municipal investment outside the bicycle lanes in Budapest, and it is assumed that people in the capital will enjoy as much development as the government will overcome the continuous obstruction. This is also the plan for the reorganisation of Terézváros in the heart of Budapest. There is no better presence in a Student City than there is a world-class higher education institution open to Hungarian students, offering international university education, with young people, sports facilities and common spaces. The architectural design of the Student City takes place in the name of the password to be renewed in the area of the Nagyvásártelep, so the buildings that can be saved are retained, renovated and supplemented by free spaces and facilities with student and youth perspectives that make sense of this whole program. When a development plan is drawn up, many new aspects may arise in its implementation. These aspects can improve and enrich future plans. This is the case with the Student City programme. According to previous proposals, business-type real estate developments were planned for the Student City, but this is where the Fudan University is built, which is better suited to the cityscape and serves the real function of Student City. Ladies and gentlemen, The Budapest Student City is therefore a place for world-class international university training, which is open to Hungarian students, instead of installing it exclusively with colleges and buildings with community functions. [[17.40]] Today's upheaval is mainly around the layout of the area of Student City. The university changes the structure, the functions, the installation, the placement. But why would it be worse than the original plans for Student City to be a dormitory housing complex? The university to be established, the cultural and sports space, will be of uniform quality with dormitory seats, a colourful world that will be a real sight for Budapest in the coming decades. Here an exciting architectural ensemble is created not only for studenthood but also for the city, all the young people of the country. The buildings and other assets created during the investment will be owned by the State, and all built forints will increase the Hungarian state's assets. Dear Parliament, The bill is 3/B. Chapter 7 also provides for the development of sports in Csepel. The renewal of sports life in Csepel is of particular importance in the public interest. The general justification of the bill states that the former sports areas in Csepel, which have been neglected over the past decades, are currently in poor condition, can be renewed and that development programmes for sport and recreational purposes, as required by the age, can be implemented. The developments fit in with the overall development programme for Csepel Island, so together they can lead to substantial and qualitative changes in the part of the city. Ladies and gentlemen, I respectfully ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-27-136	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, There is now room for further speeches by Members. Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has indicated his intention to speak in writing, but according to my information he is not in the Chamber. So if Mr Szilágyi has not arrived, I now give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, an independent Member. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to please you with a quote from Viktor Orbán that is becoming my habit now. The Prime Minister said this in the debate on the government programme back in 1990: what is going on here should actually be seen as an attempt to discuss it on an inappropriate subject. There is hardly any more precise wording in the case of Fudan and Student City, with continuous conflicting statements and foggings. However, I think it is important to talk about this, because it is not only about the housing of thousands of Hungarian university students, but it is about the future of our entire generation. By the way, the broken promises go back to December 2019, when the Council of Budapest Public Developments, where the delegates of the governing parties are sitting, unanimously decided on the implementation of the Budapest Student City programme. In April the news exploded that the Hungarian campus of the Chinese University of Fudan was planned to be built in the same place. Minister László Palkovics and Minister of State Balázs Fürjes were in a hurry to reassure everyone that, of course, the Chinese University would not take any land away from Student City, as its designated location would be in the northern corner of the development area, where office buildings were planned anyway. Two weeks ago, it turned out that the exact opposite was true: the Fudan University is the best, the most valuable and gets the largest area, while Student City is stuck in the less frequented, less advantageous north corner. The Ministry then made another false promise, saying that the two projects will fit well together, they will strengthen one another, and the community spaces will be used jointly by students of Student City and Chinese University. However, the presentation of the wallet published in the last few days revealed that this was not true either. The use of the sports hall, the gyms and the library will only be free for students of the Chinese University, and Hungarian residents of the Student City will have to pay for them. Literally cornering the Student City of Fudan University, there was quite a political and ideological debate, but I am convinced that all of this will take the focus away from the real problem. According to my fellow opposition colleague, Fudan is a threat because students will take part in communist ideological training, form agents, and some even waved that the largest spy training centre in Central Europe will be built here in Hungary. Without questioning the likelihood that there will be some among the thousands of students who will be approached and recruited by the Chinese state party, I would add, there should be no doubt that all the great powers organise and recruit students, including the United States, but, all in all, I consider the opposition fears of this to be excessive. As far as Mao Ce-tung's teachings are concerned, although the entire scientific and cultural life in China is under the close influence of the state party, it is not a lifelike, honourable fellow Members that China teaches totalitarian ideology in a European country, thereby filling the heads of students. It is also important for Beijing to be able to operate a university in the European Union so that they can show the most beautiful face to the Western democratic world. Why would I risk carefully building country image over the long decades in order to teach Mao the Red Book to young people who are likely to smile about it in the 2020s? In addition, calling Fudan's ideological orientation dangerous is a huge self-goal on the part of the opposition. Why am I saying this? In the course of the government attacks against CEU, it was precisely you, my opposition colleagues, who referred to the mood against the perceived or real ideology of a higher education institution, not to launch an attack, and not to make a university impossible simply because of its perceived or real ideological orientation. You were right about that at the time. But, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, what kind of world-view education is going on in a private university, in a rule of law, in a European rule of law? I think it doesn't matter. I think the CEU and the Fudan could have been peacefully together, could have been together, and could have worked smoothly, but not with tax-paying money. And that is the point, that is the emphasis, because this is the real problem with the Hungarian campus of Fudan University. This institution will cost Hungarian taxpayers 500 billion forints, and more than 400 billion forints will be taken in the form of Chinese loans, while the construction will be carried out by a Chinese giant company, and we will take a huge loan, and then put it in the pocket of the creditor with the same momentum, so that the interest will be paid by us Hungarian taxpayers. And in all of this, the most outrageous, honourable Members, is that the institution recovering from Hungarian tax-paying money will not even be the joint property of Hungarian citizens, it will not be state property, it will be a private foundation, it will be in the pocket of a foundation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Let me ask you, how many of you marched on the so-called peace procession we will not be a colony! Behind the Molinos with the subtitles. A lot of people, I'm sure. Now I would like to ask you, after you vote for this bill, how will you be able to look at yourself in the mirror. Or if the mirror still works out, how will they look into the eyes of the Hungarian people whose tax dollars are now building this huge campus, so that then the children of these taxpayers who go to the next Student City will have to pay separately if they want to set foot on this campus, because that's what's going to happen. I'm talking about students who are indebted for decades in exchange for entering the library and the gym for a fee. [[17.50]] We have no doubt that this Chinese private university will have very few Hungarian students; it is planned that in itself two thirds of all students will be foreign to the students they intend to hire there, and in the remaining third, only the most capable Hungarian families will be able to afford to pay the annual tuition of millions of HUF. Most of them will only receive bled-out Hungarian higher education, with humiliatingly low scholarships and teachers' wages, which are still shamefully low. And it is also possible to envelop, honourable Members, that the best Hungarian teachers, who speak several languages, who can present a high list of publications and research results, will be offered by this Chinese university to the millions of university teachers' salaries, and as much as their current earnings to university teachers, there is no doubt that many of us will accept it. And then we will get there, ladies and gentlemen, that the perverse situation has arisen that the Hungarian government is paying for the brain drain in Hungary with Hungarian taxpayers' money. We have come this far, my fellow Members, this is shameful and unacceptable! We use Hungarian taxpayers' money to finance the brain drain instead of putting this money into Hungarian higher education, in Hungarian universities. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not the topic! This is the previous agenda!]] We shouldn't be investing this money in iron and concrete, this resource, we should be investing in more valuable treasures: people. This money is taken from the pockets of Hungarian students and Hungarian teachers and teachers when it is not spent on teaching wages and non-student scholarships. Finally, the Budapest campus of Fudan University may even be a scientific success story worldwide, it is still the music of the future, we do not see it yet, but it is already a symbol of economic colonization in Hungary. We in the Civic Reply movement are committed to the independence of our country and, unlike the Hungarian government so proud of the IMF's expulsion, we reject not only the Western debt trap, but also the Eastern dependency. We're the voice of young people who don't want the future to be pawned over their heads. And if I have already started my speech with a quote from Viktor Orbán, here is a passage from Imre Nagy's re-mortem speech, where the former Prime Minister put it this way:, In the sixth symbolic coffin, not only a murdered freedom fighter, but in our coming twenty or who knows how many years, because the Communist regime led our country to an Asian dead end, forced our country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Prime Minister, How many more generations do you want to indebte? How many generations of futures do you want to put in this coffin? I look forward to your sincere response on behalf of the believers in civil Hungary.
u2021-05-27-138	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda to respond to what has been said. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-27-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will try to quickly summarise what has been said in the general debate and respond to the questions that have been raised. These have come up in general, but before I begin, I must draw attention to two things. One is that Congressman Bencsik spoke not on behalf of Hungarian youth, but on behalf of late students, because he was basically talking to the previous bill. [[János Bencsik: The two are connected!]] Which is sad because there are six or seven, I don't know how many hours we've been arguing about the issues that Congressman was pushing. I suggest you look back on the broadcast, and I've answered all the questions you've asked me. Let me draw your attention to one thing about the brain drain, Congressman, because what you're saying sounds good, but you don't have any basis for reality. If a world-class institution appears in Hungary, where students are expected to come from Europe and from all over the world, then it is not about young Hungarians leaving and staying somewhere else, but, by the way, young people from around the world are coming to Hungary, learning here, and maybe there will be one who will stay here. I wish that was the case, honourable Member. I think that is exactly what we want, we want Hungary's role in the knowledge centre to be strengthened, and indeed, from a regional point of view, we should at least be a place to come to learn and where it is worth getting qualifications. Let me also draw your attention to one thing, before the general answers, to the Honourable Parliament and to the Hungarian public, because Congressman Brenner Koloman has made a completely unworthy attack on academic freedom, and he has, by the way, put all sorts of things side by side with each other, with the help of all meaningless words. Let me draw your attention to the fact that the Hungarian government has appointed Mocsai Rector as President of the Hungarian Rector Conference, and they will replace him, and I cannot interpret it. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a profound violation of the dignity of all elected rectors, and it is also a profound violation of the Hungarian Rector's Conference, since the Hungarian Government has never said who members of the Hungarian Rector's Conference choose as president, co-chair, vice-president and member of the Presidency. It's quite outrageous that a parliamentary congressman will stand up in Parliament, go up to the pulpit and start talking about what the rectors should do and what they shouldn't do. He wants to reject the entire Hungarian higher education in one person, Brenner Koloman, this is quite unworthy and quite outrageous. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that such a thing has long been the case here in order to threaten all higher education institutions in such a uniform manner by a Member of Parliament. It's a skandalum and a public scandal! In addition to saying these sentences, there were some points that appeared several times in the debate. The first and most important question, even if this is not the way the speakers put it, is whether there is a need for college development and, if so, how much college development is needed. As I was trying to say in the Expo, we are doing well in the development of the rural dorms, we have spent hundreds of billions of forints on this in recent years, and it can be said that rural dorms have improved in quality and quantity. Here are some debts that we want to repay; not our own debt, but the debt of left-wing governments, if I am to be quite precise, because there are PPP schemes that are still necessary, we have to pay them back, we have to replace these horribly ineffective contracts. This is what we have done in recent years, and this is what we will do in the next period: we will rid universities of these debt traps and the business structures that have been completely flawed, which are beneficial only to business operators. In Budapest, however, we clearly see the need for college development, which was confirmed by the figures that were also mentioned in the debate. So I encourage everyone who understands the numbers and understands the numbers to support this bill, because this bill allows thousands of college places to be created in Budapest, where college places are really needed. We see that about 3,000 seats are clearly needed, but we think that we will need more than that, so we are planning more ourselves. The other question that was regularly raised about Student City was that there was a change in university and what Fudan's appearance meant. Here, please allow me to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament that whatever mayor Gergely Christmas says, and whatever the entire left-wing fake news factory says, in 2019 at the Council of Budapest Public Developments, a presentation was about the green, people-centred university town being built in the run-down, broken-down area! [[18.00]] I don't know who, where, what kind of training he's been through, but I think the university city should be relatively clear to everyone. Without university, it is completely unthinkable according to the basic rules of the Hungarian language. So the plans have not changed in this respect. However, questions were also raised about the location of the Fudan University and the placement of the colleges. This is clear and clear, there is no secret in this, and we have also repeatedly said that we are essentially planning the Student City on the southern side of the affected development area. These were the original plans, which were presented to the press. And the reason why we had to drag the Fudan University from the south into the state area and take the dorms up north is because against Fudan University, such an amazing anti-university campaign was launched by the Mayor of Left and Christmas Gergely. And when they said that they wouldn't give a foot's worth of land for university development in a university town, there was no other option than building a university in public areas and building colleges in public and partly capital and partly municipal areas. We believe that colleges can also be built in the public area, but it is indeed better that if we involve capital and district areas and even private areas in this development, the Student City will be complete. So in Hungarian, on the left, it is up to you to want the college development and support these development directions. I encourage them to take this opportunity and support this solution. Finally, I also have to say that there are indeed common functions, whether sport or cultural, but it is an amazing lie, that something will be used free of charge for students at Fudan University and not for others. That is not how we distinguish this issue, Honourable Parliament. The point is, we have agreed that physical education at the university or even the library service will be available free of charge by students at Fudan University, as in many other cases students from other universities will have free access to the infrastructure needed for their classes. So there is no special treatment and no special story here, just that it is possible to jointly use these upcoming infrastructure investments. Allow me to finally say that, in the hope that Gergely Christmas and the complete left will support Hungarian students, young Hungarians, and support the establishment of Student City, they support the establishment of a suitable dormitory placement, and we will continue to be available in this case. Several questioned how the negotiations were conducted with Mr. Mayor, Mrs. Mayor. I was at the last, more than two hours of trial, and all the questions could be discussed as they asked, and we tried to answer that there were no sentences that would have been any final sentences. We will continue to face consultation, consultation and any other negotiations. We believe that this is an important issue, the issue of young Hungarians, that we need this development, that we also need the capital, and we look forward to how we can continue to cooperate in this. There can be consensus on this right now, I trust. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-140	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, Following is the UNEP Secretariat of the Agreement on the Protection of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds, represented by the Government of Hungary and the United Nations on the 8th meeting of the Parties to the African-Eurasian Agreement on the Protection of Migratory Waterbirds [[5-9 October 2021 Budapest, Hungary]] the general debate on the presentation of an agreement until its conclusion. The government referral is T/16288. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-05-27-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary's natural treasures are invaluable, and its treasure is cherished, guarded, protected and managed responsibly by a man who loves his country, is conscious and caring. The protection of nature, the use of experts and the development of agriculture have always been part of the Hungarian national identity and the development of the Hungarian economy. The characteristics of the Carpathian Basin, the world-famous and varied Hungarian hunting culture, the unique tradition associated with it, and the internationally recognized Hungarian hunting community all predestin our country to become an exemplary culture of sustainable nature use. This year we will have a unique opportunity to present all this expertise, knowledge and innovation, which the Hungarian hunting culture has accumulated over almost a millennium, at close range to the world. A natural and natural world exhibition offers a worthy forum for the world's hunting, wildlife management and nature conservation experts, a number of international conferences and professional discourses. Dear Parliament, Moreover, the world exhibition has an economic revival effect in the shadow of the corona virus: the international event provides an opportunity to strengthen tourism, thereby contributing to the re-launch of the economy. In addition, hunting tourism, we all know, is a highly paid industry, which, due to the nature of the sector, brings and brings with it investment opportunities for visitors to our country during the World Exhibition. Dear Parliament, Our country hosts the 8th Conference of the Parties to the agreement on the protection of African-Eurasian migratory waterbirds between 5 and 9 October. Dear Parliament, Mankind's only chance of making peace with nature is to achieve a change of attitude supported by the Hungarian government, to use and pass on natural and environmental resources to his children and grandchildren, as the good Lord has entrusted us. Hungary, the Carpathian Basin, can remain alive if man has more sense of responsibility than expectations of nature, we can primarily have obligations and no demands on nature. The bill submitted contains the details of the conference, the related tasks and obligations in Hungary. I therefore call on the Honourable Parliament to support the bill tabled. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary joined the agreement on the protection of African-Eurasian migratory waterbirds in 2003. The Secretariat of the Movement is part of the UN Environment Programme. The programme is an organisation to promote sustainable development and the coordination of environmental activities, which was established in 1972. Its tasks include monitoring the state of the environment, the acquisition and dissemination of data on it, the promotion of international environmental cooperation and the management of possible environmental disasters. [[18.10]] The programme also proposes public policy proposals for governments and regions, supports the dissemination of environmental science and helps to establish certain related development programmes. The agreement on the protection of African, Eurasian migratory waterbirds also states that migratory waterbirds are an important part of the world's biodiversity. These species are extremely vulnerable. Year after year, long distances are reached, and unfortunately their natural habitat network is constantly decreasing due to unsustainable human activities. The Agreement also provides for the meeting of the Parties to be convened by the Secretariat of the Agreement at the latest every three years in consultation with the Secretariat of the Convention. As with all international participants, the conference in question must be preceded by a very detailed and prudent organizing work. This bill also provides for the infrastructure background for implementation, in view of the Covid-19 epidemic, the organisation of medical assistance and the creation of safety conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal also states that if the coronal virus epidemic would not allow the conference to be organised with a personal presence in the autumn, the meeting may be held in hybrid form, i.e. in addition to the personal presence, some participants may follow and comment on it online. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the implementation of the event and considers it important, so I ask my fellow Members to adopt this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, To be heard, Mr Gergely Kálló, Mr Jobbik Group... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. The congressman's here. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. I give the floor to Mr Kolló Gerely, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-145	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I'm a little lost right now, because what's the point of the hunting exhibit? [[Tamás János Schanda: I told you.]] What's the name of the hunting exhibit? I can say that we also support the organisation of such meetings, and we support the proposal itself to a hundred percent. But speaking of hunting exhibits. I have been a member of Parliament for a little over a year, during this one year, the governing parties conducted an online national consultation on animal protection, appointed a Minister for Animal Protection, Prime Minister, but I do not hear animal protection as many times as I should in Parliament. Now it's an opportunity. I didn't want to get into this, but since we're talking about the 70 billion forints hunting exhibition, let me just say... [[To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] Don't nod, Mr. Nacha. 70 billion is 70 billion. We know very well that we can do a great deal with this money in the field of animal protection. I find it a little hypocritical that you consult on animal protection, you appoint a Minister for Animal Protection, but we spent 70 billion forints on the Deputy Prime Minister's hobby of hunting. Then, when we're talking about something like this, I'd expect more. Not only in the context of such a late-afternoon parliamentary debate, let us talk about the protection of animals very rightly and very rightly, but let us talk more. That's my guess, Mr. Schanda, I'm sorry. [[Tamás János Schanda: It was a very good joke.]] That you will set the animal protection laws before 2022, and that you will make these proposals, which, of course, we will support when the campaign becomes active. The problem is we don't have time. We don't have time to protect migratory birds, we don't have time to fight animal fights, and we don't have time to save stray animals, and I can still talk about questions. I didn't mean to. I wanted to give my support to your proposal. But in terms of animal welfare, whether it's migratory birds or water migratory birds, it's morbid to bring here the hunting exhibition at any time. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, it's morbid and repulsive. With this money, we can make sure that all forms of Hungarian animal protection are in order, good and effective. I often say that we are trying to take the lead in a lot of things in Hungary, such as the Smoking Act. Why can't we take the lead on animal protection laws in Europe? We could make the strictest animal protection laws, and I'll name the source: we could do a lot of the hunting exhibition's expenses. Try to take the lead on this in Europe. We support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
u2021-05-27-146	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-27-147	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I, too, wanted to give my support to the law, but Mr Kálló raised a few points in his speech here. On the one hand, we consider it very important for Budapest to host important international events, especially when it comes to protecting nature and protecting the created world. That is what I would like to say first. Secondly, I would like to say to Mr Kó, that it is artificial and unnecessary to confront animal protection restrictions with the hunting exhibition. Now you're suggesting that hunters don't stand up for animal welfare laws and don't want to tighten up? Are you suggesting that they wouldn't otherwise be conservationists? Obviously not. I think it is right that we have conducted the animal protection consultation, and I think it is right that a significant majority of Hungarians, the majority of the electorate, want to tighten up the principle of three strikes, and the rest, and the rest. I think it is important that, after we have dealt with the answers, we have legislation, and I agree with that. They must be born, and they will be born. And all I'm asking you is not to artificially confront things, but to support good goals. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-05-27-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. This bill only seems to be about the protection of African, Eurasian migratory waterbirds and the conference on this. The reality is that in the midst of the worst crisis, you are organizing a hunting exhibition for ten billion, because this is Zsolt Semjén's obsession. Zsolt Semjén likes to kill animals, even if the unfortunate victim is a domesticated reindeer. This has nothing to do with hunting, it's Zsolt Semjén's individual perversion, which could be private, but unfortunately it's not. No, because the Deputy Prime Minister used many tens of billions of forints of public money to create an expensive set for his obsession. This is the particular hunting exhibition in which nature conservation is just a kind of beauty patch to get an alibi for mindless money-spinning, which is the essence of this bill. According to the MSZP, it is a scandal and a shame that besides the Prime Minister's soccer mania, Zsolt Semjén's hobbies are being financed with heavy tens of billions of taxpayers' money. The hunting exhibition planned for the autumn of 2021 will also consume public money above HUF 60 billion, according to the most careful estimates. 80 percent of the costs will be financed by infrastructure improvements, i.e. the remaining 20 percent will be spent on organizing the event. This will include the eighth Conference of the Parties to the agreement on the protection of migratory waterbirds in Africa, Eurasian, which is the subject of the proposal. We know you're trying to defend the insane waste of ten billion dollars on the basis of a few million-dollar nature conservation event. We know you're going to be very upset that you're going to point to nature conservation and the protection of birds. And it's written before you, but it's a deception and a lie. Listen carefully to what I'm about to say. We're not attacking nature and not birds. We are attacking the senseless waste of the Fidesz government, which is to spend 60 billion forints on a pointless hunting exhibition in the middle of a crisis. It's important for me to protect wild birds, too. That's why I protest every forum, because a fidesz oligarch wants to build a luxury hotel on the shore of the Old Lake of Tata, destroying the environment and endangering the peace of tens of thousands of wild geese. It is indeed nature conservation, it is indeed the conservation of wild birds. If that's what's really important to you, then stop this investment. [[18.20]] But for you, this nature conservation event is just an alibi for Zsolt Semjén to spend 60 billion forints on his obsession; the original budget included 54 billion. According to the Hungarian Socialist Party, there would be a much better place for this money, this 60 billion. Look around you. Millions of people are shorthanded. If there's money and they want to spend money, spend these ten billion on those in trouble. Make the minimum wage tax-free, spend it on receiving a net benefit of HUF 100 thousand per month, not for 3 months, but for at least 9 months. Use it to catch up on low pensions, double the family allowance, and significantly increase the amount of the child and the child. Spend it on raising the salary of nurses, health professionals, teachers, making the first degree free, raising student scholarships by 33 per cent or implementing the long-term development of settlements. There would be a million places for this brutal amount. And finally, once again, we don't feel sorry for the money to protect nature and not wild birds. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yes, yes!]] This is your crappy, weak alibi. We say it's time to use the country's money to protect the lives of the people of this country, because so far they have not been very good at this. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-27-150	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz Group.
u2021-05-27-151	Very briefly, Mr. President. On behalf of migratory waterbirds, I protest that poor waterbirds are being used for political purposes and that this legislation is being reversed, which is about organising an event. I have not read about any hunting or other, but about sustainable development, the more I have read about the protection of migratory waterbirds. And we were saddened to hear that Gergely Kálló and our fellow Member Zita Gurmai twisted this and talked about everything but the event. I reject the mockery of my better fellow Member, Mr Secretary of State. I don't think that's appropriate, and it doesn't suit this House to make a pun out of someone's name. I call on him not to do this, because I think it is not witty, it certainly does not fit into the walls of this House. Thank you very much. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2021-05-27-152	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group.
u2021-05-27-153	Thank you very much. Dear House, We are in a particular situation, because if we thought that a legislative proposal was an absolute political neutral and unpolitical proposal without any problems, I believe that we are all great friends of migratory waterbirds and that there should be an international conference on this subject, and that we know that this should be published formally. I have to say, with all due respect, maybe you shouldn't have brought the World Hunting Exhibition here. So if something doesn't fit with the convention on the protection of migratory waterbirds, and it doesn't otherwise match the spirit of this whole proposal, and what it's all about is the World Hunting Exhibition. I am a great admirer of that, when we deal with nature, I find it very appropriate. I also think it is appropriate to do this in a regulated way, and I also accept, although I do not like that there are people who think that hunting is a good idea, but that throwing taxpayers' money out the window to their hobbies is a bit of an exaggeration. It's just as much an exaggeration in football as it is in nature or hunting. And I can only join Congressman Gergely Kálló, look at how many forints you have intended to help animal protection organizations in an extremely difficult situation as a result of the coronal virus epidemic. If I count it right, you'll say 200 percent of the amount that's spent on the World Hunting Exhibition. I think that maybe-maybe it would have been a little more important for the government to spend less than 70 billion, just 1 billion, instead of throwing money away for the World Hunting Exhibition, and then I won't go into what kind of personal and business mergers are surrounding this world show.
u2021-05-27-154	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Kálló applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-155	I apologise to my fellow Member Schanda or Secretary of State. I have allowed myself to make this comment, because I have had to accept tougher comments about either Dunaújváros or the Ironworks for less than a year. I'm sorry if I hurt you. [[János Schanda: All right.]] The other, to my fellow Member, Nacsa: you know, who is serious, and I do not consider myself a real, virtual animal rights activist, but who is serious about animal protection knows without consulting that hunting is a part of wildlife management and animal protection, we have never doubted that. So we are not against hunters, my honourable fellow Member, but against a 70 billion forint hunting exhibition. With this money, I repeat myself, we could solve Hungarian animal protection from the beginning to the end. We could finance everything, even set up constitutional protection for animals in connection with an animal protection police. So that's what I was gonna say. Let's not mix the season with the guy, please, let's not mix it up. Don't try to pin it on me that I'm against the hunters when I'm not against the hunters, I'm against the hunting exhibit. And I insist that it is morbid to bring up a 70 billion forint hunting exhibition in the field of animal protection, which, according to the present, is not going to pay off, so it is a waste of money. Thank you for the floor.
u2021-05-27-156	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai in a two-minute speech, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-157	Thank you very much. I note quietly that today, in the Committee on Sustainable Development, we have just tabled a proposal for an amendment on the protection of the natural and cultural values of Hungary's great lakes, which is exactly how these wild geese can be protected, regrettably voted off by Fidesz. So what I really want is for us to love birds right now, but let's love them anyway. And I can now return to a previous reply that this is now a part of the whole or part of it, and, by the way, thank you, Secretary of State, Schanda, for commending me this morning. I'm really ready to have professional discussions. And once again, this exhibition is important, just not like this, in this form, I wanted to say this once again very firmly.
u2021-05-27-158	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There is now room for further speeches by Members. I'm asking if anyone wants to live with this. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Schanda, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have to say that once again, Mrs Gurmai Zita was the only perhaps who had read from the left-wing Members, including Jobbik, the bill on which we will continue the debate here today. Because the justification of the bill is not long, Mrs.Arató and Mr. Kálló, not long, five paragraphs, which clearly and clearly states that this conference is part of the event series of the World Exhibition of Hunting and Nature with Nature. So it is right to argue about these issues, and I think it is no coincidence that I myself have brought up the affairs of the world's exhibition. That is far less right, and I am here in a serious debate with Mrs Gurmai that, on the one hand, this convention examines the exact impact of hunting on the stocks of waterbirds, allowing it to be done for each species. So it's an important event, an event that fits well with the.A. with nature. I also think that I must reject, Congresswoman, that hunting would be perversion. That's what I do in the name of every hunter, I don't hunt for myself, but I have to ask for it in the name of every hunter. [[18.30]] So the idea of calling tens of thousands of people perverts in Hungary, who are hunting, is surprising even from the left and the Socialist Party. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: I named one.]] So I think that all hunters are called perverts, and I definitely have to reject them. I must also decline, Madam honourable Member, and perhaps also Mr Arato, when the amount is being pushed up that this exhibition would cost nearly HUF 60-70 billion here. This is a false report on the left, Madam honourable Member. It's a fake on the left! The World Hunting Exhibition costs HUF 17 billion in total, which is the total cost. This includes the world-class exhibition of 75,000 square meters, half a dozen international conferences and many other domestic events, which are the forerunner of the world's exhibition. So you're lying, Congresswoman. They keep lying about the world show. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita says no to his head.]] They're lying. Don't shake your head, Congresswoman, they're lying. That's the thing. They mix numbers, add up everything that doesn't belong there, while it is clear and clear that we are talking about a total of HUF 17 billion, and Hungexpo's budget, which is completely independent of Hungexpo's budget, is, I think, relatively easy to see: completely independent of each other, the HUF 55 billion. And you're adding up these two numbers, and you're gonna start lying in front of the media and the National Assembly and making people feel good about themselves. While this is a serious event, an event that I think Hungary needs very much, because the coronal virus epidemic has indeed hit the economy. By the way, he hit tourism, especially, especially tourism in Budapest. So we have an elemental interest in bringing tourism back into action in Hungary, including tourism in Budapest, in a special area that has a really high level of pay, since hunting tourism has a high level of solvency. I hope that I have also succeeded in convincing the Member that it is not worth spreading false news, on the one hand, and on the other, it is something quite different from what she has raised, and I hope that the bill can be supported by Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-27-160	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Romania, between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Romania in Bucharest, signed on 24 July 2014, on the publication of an agreement on the amendment of the Agreement on road connections across the Hungarian-Romanian border until closure. Government referral T/16211. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-05-27-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the draft law before you is to announce the Hungarian-Romanian intergovernmental agreement concluded in Gyula on 28 April 2021. Under the agreement, two new road border crossing points can be opened between Elek and Ottalaka and Dombegyház and Kisvarjas. Dear House, During the EU budget period 2017-2023, the Hungarian-Romanian border section also achieved, among other things, ten small-scale road developments of common interest aimed at reducing the distances between border crossing opportunities. Unfortunately, these sections could not be fully used due to the lack of border crossing points. Romania has not joined the Schengen area and therefore it is necessary to establish a border crossing point, but has not agreed to do so. According to the relevant legislation, a trialogue took place with the participation of the European Commission, Romania and our country. The Parties have agreed that the interoperability of the road sections will be ensured by the two countries on a provisional basis and that a permanent border crossing point will be opened for at least two road connections. As of 18 February 2017, Hungary and Romania granted a temporary border crossing on the ten routes in question on one weekend a week. Romania has suspended border crossings at temporary border crossing points for an indefinite period as of 10 March 2020 and is now closed. Dear Parliament, Based on traffic, the Romanian party proposed Elek-Ottaka and Dombegyház-Kisvarjas road connections to permanent border crossing points, which we accepted from Hungary. The expert consultations were carried out, and it was decided that both crossing points will be opened in Hungary as a common border crossing point, for which the necessary infrastructure will be provided exclusively by Hungary. The proposal for an amendment before you ensures the entry into force of this agreement, which complies with EU standards and allows for the expansion of the road network between the two countries in a state-of-the-art framework. I would like to mention here that a few days ago, this House adopted the publication of the Hungarian-Romanian agreement on the implementation of the M49 motorway from the motorway M3 to the border and of the Hungarian-Romanian route leading to Szatmárnemeti, which will enable a new, third traffic border link to be established in the Chenger area. I would also like to thank you for your support for the bill. The first four-track connection from Szeged to Arad and Timisoara has been available since 2015. Since last year, motorists have been able to use the entire length of the sections of the M35 and M4 Debrecen-Berettyó new village, which have created a high-quality connection to Oradea. Dear Parliament, The opening of the two new border crossing points can not only help to strengthen cultural and family ties, but also to boost economic and trade and tourism relations. From the Hungarian side, of course, our aim is to ensure that international traffic can take place in all ten stages. The opening of the two permanent road border crossing points is a very important step towards achieving our goal, so I ask you to support the proposed legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-27-162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, It is historic for Hungary to strengthen good friendships with neighbouring countries. Exploiting our favourable geographical location is not only in the interests of our country, but also brings the people of the Carpathian Basin, thus bringing the Member States of the European Union closer together by facilitating the exercise of freedoms in general and guaranteed by law. Our priority in the truncated country is also to build bridges for our national brothers across the border, so we need to arrange for such unworthy conditions that the Hungarians travel hours from their border homeland due to a remote crossing, even though their destination would be easily accessible on foot. Apart from convenience, it is easy to see the environmental benefits of opening new border crossings, as it is not only a matter of civic transport, but also of facilitating and shortening the transport of goods, which is particularly typical of the regularity and the pollution of the environment in proportion to the kilometres travelled. The expansion of connections to road networks always brings new opportunities, which can also be changed to economic growth through the exercise of previously mentioned freedoms. Dear House, Eastern Central Europe has undergone unprecedented economic and social development in recent years, the ideal pace of which can only be maintained if we mutually help each other in the success of our efforts. [[18.40]] This is an essential step in the adoption of this bill, which aims to obtain the necessary authorisation and publication to recognise the mandatory scope of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Romania, signed in Bucharest in 2014, amending the agreement on road connections across the Hungarian-Romanian border. It is an excellent guarantee of cooperation that the Romanian party has also raised the common path to its shield, as reciprocity is needed in order to establish the legal basis for the implementation of new road border crossing points between the two countries. As regards the content of the signed document, it contains rules concerning legislative matters, and therefore the Parliament may authorise the recognition of its mandatory scope. Dear House, With the adoption of this bill, we can help Hungarian and Romanian people by having a saving effect from a national political point of view. Following discussions over the years, the Romanian party's position has finally changed to open two new road border crossing points. The opening of these was subject specifically to the condition that the Hungarian party provide the necessary border infrastructure. Therefore, it was decided that the two new border crossing points will be established in Hungarian territory in relation to the two countries. Dear House, I propose that we take the initiative of the Romanians, so that we create a legal basis for the opening of new road border crossing points between Dombegyház and Kisvarjas and between Elek and Ottalaka. The Secretary of State mentioned the motorway connections, which have been implemented on the one hand, and for which the bilateral agreement has been signed, we hope that they can be implemented as soon as possible, but we hope and are working to open the eight border crossing points already established as soon as possible. These are the following: the Körösnagyharsány és Körülösség, Csanádpalota and Felsőnagylak, Gyula and Dénesmajor, Feketegarmat-Nagyzerind, Ömböly and Károlypuszta, Pocsaj and Biharfélegyháza, Bagamér and Érkenesez, Zajta and Nagypeleske, and Garbolc and Köldberek border crossings. Last week I was at the Partium, I met several mayors, county and local magistrates, and they all said that they also considered it crucial to open further border crossing points to promote relations between the two countries, which I mentioned and to promote national political relations. We are working to remove obstacles as soon as possible and open these border crossings. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-27-164	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-165	Mr President, thank you for the floor. It is a pleasure that there are as many border crossings between Hungary and Romania as possible, and it is particularly gratifying if two out of ten temporary road crossings become permanent road crossings, as this helps to improve passenger and freight traffic and freight traffic between the two countries. At the same time, of course, it is another joy for us, because it is also a Hungarian-Hungarian border crossing from the point of view of making it easier for Hungarians across the border to enter the mother country and vice versa. So it's definitely to be supported. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-05-27-167	Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. In our parliamentary practice, such a bill as the T/16211 before us. A number of amendments to an intergovernmental agreement, which is an international treaty, are adopted in the majority of cases, following a short and rapid negotiation, with pro-government and opposition support. That's certainly what's going to happen now. I think it's the right thing to do, and it's the right thing to do. However, I also think that in some cases it is worthwhile and necessary to speak briefly about the content and significance of the international agreement. This is how I see the agreement before us and its amendment. The agreement is concluded between two neighbouring countries, members of the European Union, Hungary and Romania, and was based on EU funds 2007-2013, which provided for the creation of ten small-scale road connections and temporary border crossing possibilities. It has also been agreed that permanent border crossings will be opened for at least two road connections, thus between Elek-Ottalaka and Dombegyház-Kisvarjas, further increasing the interoperability of the borders between the two neighbouring countries. This is why the intergovernmental agreement needs to be amended. While this is now an everyday, ordinary event, let us say, let us remind you that our membership of the EU is a factual proof that belonging to the European Union strengthens the good relationship between two neighbouring countries, contributes to the airing of separation borders, increasing interoperability and serving the interests of majority nations and those living in minorities. The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-05-27-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since no two-minute speeches have been made, there is now room for further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I won't even take two minutes to speak. Of course, we fully support this proposal and we welcome all such opportunities when the infrastructure conditions for cross-border contacts improve. This is particularly important, as Mr Balczó mentioned, if this improves the possibilities of Hungarian-Hungarian communication and transport. So, of course, the LMP fraction will support this. However, let me ask Mr Secretary of State a question regarding a similar problem. It is a very, very old problem that Barcs and Drávaszabolcs have one of the longest inaccessible border sections, and it would be essential to establish border crossing points in order to strengthen cross-border links in order to strengthen Hungarian-Hungarian relations and cross-border relations. Nearly a decade ago, a very clear promise was made regarding the fact that there are several new possibilities for crossing the border in this section, what you know about this, Mr State Secretary, that you are planning to create, so to speak, an opportunity to break this very, very long, inaccessible border section by creating infrastructure. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Mosóczi, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-05-27-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We thank you for your support for the opening of the border crossing points, which have indeed been introduced to facilitate Hungarian-Romanian and Hungarian-Hungarian relations. In answer to the question of Mr Lóránt Keresztes: yes, we are planning. The Hungarian Government has already decided to prepare the road between the village of Kaposvár-Szigetvár-Zaláta Zaláta, on the Hungarian side of Drava, and we have proposed to the Croatian party that we consider the possibility of establishing at least one ferry and establishing a border crossing point. During the pandemic period, the negotiations have been a bit stuck, but not so much that we have drawn the attention of the Croatian party by planning to extend the M60 motorway to Barcs, and then this could mean a new border crossing point, or we could use the old one. They are ready to examine and we have indicated that we would like to negotiate the opening of further border crossing points. So what you are asking is a positive answer, of course, depends on the outcome of the negotiations with the Croatian party. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-27-172	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. [[18.50]] Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/15989. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Steiner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-05-27-173	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to briefly summarise the essential elements of the bill before you. Hungary's nuclear law requires that the assets accumulated in the Central Nuclear Financial Fund can be used to finance the final disposal of radioactive waste and the temporary storage of spent fuel, in addition to which the nuclear fuel cycle will be completed and the tasks related to the decommissioning of the nuclear installation will be carried out at the expense of the Fund. The Fund's budget is regulated by the Central Budget Act in a separate chapter each year, and the main source of revenue is the annual payment of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the annual central budget support. Each year, the rate of payment is decided by the Parliament, and according to the legal provisions in force, the aid is calculated on the basis of the average of the base rate calculated on the basis of the average of the base rate of the fund in the previous year. The bill before you alters the level of support. It is proposed to provide the central budget with an increase in the annual consumer price index, increased by 3 percentage points, instead of the amount of support calculated by the average of the central bank base rate in the previous year. In addition, the provision for payment of the aid is amended: instead of making payments once a year, the central budget will pay contributions 12 times a year and in equal instalments per month; this amendment will also ensure consistency with the general government rules. According to the Council Directive on the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, Member States should ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and therefore the proposed amendment fully serves compliance with Union law. In accordance with Article 33 of the Euratom Treaty, the proposed amendment was also examined by the European Commission in the context of a preliminary notification procedure and did not make a recommendation or comment on it. The bill does not alter the useability of the fund and its sources of revenue, but, in response to the downward trend in the interest market in recent years, it formulates the planned changes, thus ensuring the long-term viability of the fund. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-27-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-27-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As you have heard in the expozee, the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy on the table in this House. According to the content of the bill amending the Act, the Central Nuclear Financial Fund provides as a separate state fund the financing of the final disposal of radioactive waste, the temporary storage of spent fuels, the closure of the nuclear fuel cycle, the support to municipal associations for control and information purposes, as well as the tasks related to the decommissioning of the nuclear installation and the management of the Fund. The aim of the bill is to ensure the value-proofness of the fund, to establish a set of rules defining its predictable and long-term financing structure and to ensure consistency with public finances rules. Dear House, The budget of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund is regulated by the Central Budget Act in an independent chapter each year. The main source of income is MVM Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. its annual payment and the annual central budget support to ensure the integrity of the funds in the fund. The aid shall be the sum of the average amount of the Fund's average cash in the previous year calculated on the basis of the average of the base rate in the previous year, which shall be made available in a single amount by 31 January each year. The bill sets out the necessary provisions for the continued assurance of the value of the fund. Taking into account Commission Recommendation 2006/851/Euratom, in accordance with Article 9 of Directive 2011/70/Euratom, Member States shall ensure that the national system provides, where necessary, for adequate financial resources for the implementation of national programmes, in particular for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. Accordingly, the nuclear law requires that the assets accumulated in the Central Nuclear Financial Fund may be used only to finance the final disposal of radioactive waste, the temporary storage of spent fuel, the closure of the nuclear fuel cycle and the decommissioning of the nuclear installation, with the exception of the financing of management tasks and the support of municipal associations for control and information purposes. The nuclear law is 63. §2 of the Treaty provides for the payment of funds to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. On this basis, the annual rate of payment of the nuclear power plant is determined by the Central Budget Act, taking into account the requirements of the nuclear law, and it is decided by the Parliament to accept it. Dear House, In the light of what has been said, I believe that the bill before us contains provisions that must be supported, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-27-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-27-177	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I think it was enough that the lead speaker of the Fidesz, which was clearly explained by the Secretary of State, repeated it, I no longer wish to repeat it. It is natural that the value of the nuclear base must be ensured and that this will be possible as indicated. In short, I would like to talk about what this bill and amendment is not about right now. It is not about Paks II, so obviously because the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been operating in Hungary for decades, for the storage of nuclear waste and for all the tasks that Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond clearly summarized, this foundation must be kept at its value, and that is completely independent of the fact that Paks II. or not, because Paks I. requires this payment, and Paks Nuclear Power Plant pays these annual amounts. By the way, last Friday, we had a debate here in Parliament about Paks II. It was understandable in this context that the debate was more open, we debated for several hours. I would just like to point out that if this debate opens in this direction, then I do not want to participate in it, because I respect Parliament and the institution so much, and I do not like to hear my voice enough to repeat it, but obviously there may still be a representative who, if it is about compensation for the loss of business tax of the Paks municipality, leads this to Paks II. It is everyone's right to see how wide it is, just to say that if we go in this direction, I do not wish to participate in this debate. Obviously, this can be extended to exactly where we stand in planning the safe disposal of nuclear waste. Once again, this is just my subjective opinion as to whether or not I personally wish to participate in a debate. Thank you.
u2021-05-27-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go. [[19.00]]
u2021-05-27-179	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members present. The bill defines Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. as a new provision. the method of determining the amount to be paid in connection with the payment obligation to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. On the basis of the bill, the determination of the payment of the nuclear power plant should be carried out using the method of calculating the net present value, using a 3-percent real discontrate, so that the present value of the amount paid to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund is the same as the final disposal of the nuclear waste generated by the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant, the decommissioning of the transitional storage unit, the present value of the costs associated with the aid to the municipal associations for control and information purposes. I would like to make some comments on the bill. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant pays 20-25 billion forints a year into a financial fund, this is the ominous Central Nuclear Financial Fund, which Mr. State Secretary also spoke about. This money has been collected since 1998, among other things, that when the power plant's operating hours expire, there should be enough to drain and remove nuclear waste. He had a proposal from the government in 2015 to reduce the fund's payment in order to keep the result of the reduction of the rent. Fortunately, the fall in energy prices in 2015 finally ensured low price stability even without it. With regard to Paks II, our position is that the Paks II agreement is an economic policy time bomb, and therefore the agreement should be terminated and a referendum should be held on the construction of the new nuclear power plant. The nuclear power plant has advantages: for example, no CO2 emissions, continuous power generation. Its disadvantage is the one-off, high cost of capital, and, of course, we cannot forget the risks of waste management, and there are also non-rational considerations, so only in case of good preparation, wide debate and appropriate social support, a long, decades-defining decision should be taken. Paks II. is not a security of supply issue because electricity production can be achieved in other ways, primarily on a renewable and natural gas basis, and can be obtained from the market in the same way as any other product. The interest rate on the Russian loan financing the agreement without adequate mandate and social support is 3.95-4.95 per cent, higher than that of IMF and EU loans in times of crisis. Its recovery will cost more than the planned EUR 12.5 billion, it will not be ready for the planned deadline and it will probably require state aid. A huge foreign currency loan can trigger a new wave of debt or at least prevent a reduction in public debt. Due to the financial risks, the European Commission's decision and Austria, but even more importantly, the increasing anti-nuclear power plant resistance of domestic public opinion, the investment needs to be rethinked. It cannot be risked that, in ten years' time, social resistance, like the hydroelectric power plant in Namaros or the Austrian nuclear power plant, will prevent the plant from being put into operation. Therefore, the Paks II treaty with Russia must be terminated and a referendum on the establishment of a new nuclear power plant should be issued by the government after a broad social debate. There is no risk of security of supply for such a step, as the operating time of the currently operating blocks expires between 2032-2037 and the extension of the operating time of the blocks is allowed by the technology on the basis of foreign examples. The calculation method defined in the specific proposal makes the revenues of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund predictable, so it is likely that a significant proportion of the costs associated with subsequent decommissioning can be ensured. No, but specifically the T/1589 on the amendment of the law on nuclear energy before us. The Hungarian Socialist Party is in favour of the Hungarian Socialist Party since it is in line with the aim of the future safe and efficient decommissioning of the nuclear power plant, so once again, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-05-27-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-27-181	Dear House, My fellow Members who spoke before me have also highlighted the professional background of this proposal in many respects. I don't think there's a really decisive difference between us, and I wouldn't repeat what they said. This proposal, which, moreover, allows compliance with an EU directive, if I remember correctly, in any event, to comply with an international treaty and allows payments to be made to the nuclear fund to maintain their real value, which is basically an eligible proposal in relation to the costs to be incurred. However, I must say very quietly that it is a fundamental error in calculating the costs of nuclear power plants, that they are significantly underestimating subsequent waste disposal costs. It should also be borne in mind that, when these resources will be used, the solutions in which they are thinking today and which are otherwise required by the legislation, these solutions are doubtful that they will serve properly and safely dispose of nuclear waste in the long term. It doesn't take a great deal of good fortune from the experience of recent decades that real costs will exceed the cost they expect here. But I don't want to take the bread from Mr. Loránt Keresztő, who is about to introduce us to all the mischief and problems of nuclear waste disposal. So I would just like to say that we support this proposal. We believe that this is, moreover, a proposal to reduce and prevent future damage, but at the same time we believe that we are running a serious risk from the point of view that this source will be sufficient after the nuclear power plant is closed. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-27-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Although I do not wish to give a very long lecture or expo on the problem of the disposal of nuclear waste, as I perceive the expectation, it must be mentioned that this is a challenge that not only Hungary, but all the countries in Europe that use nuclear energy, are facing. We should also say in such a parliamentary debate that this is an unresolved issue, since the permanent disposal of high-activity radioactive waste and spent fuel is not a problem solved anywhere in the world. So neither the technological nor the financing issue has been resolved reassuringly, and in most places there are problems with the choice of venue, including in Hungary. I would basically have questions to Mr Secretary of State, regardless of whether we are obviously talking about Paks II, but also factually stated by Mr Balczó that, as we use nuclear energy, sooner or later, we will have to shut down the current power plant, shut down, permanently dispose of radioactive waste, and permanently dispose of spent fuel. It's gonna cost you amazingly. But do we know exactly these costs? The project of the disposal of high-activity waste is currently running by RHK Kft. The President In the spring of 2019, there was a public hearing, and I asked myself that there was a precise calculation of how much it would cost. I also asked how much money is now actually available in the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. On this basis, what information is available, we can say that we are in a rather unbelievably bad situation in this regard, so there are brutal estimates of how much decommissioning and disposal will cost and only a fraction of it is available. This proposal, which lies before us, is obviously a positive move, but the question is what is the guarantee that the plant will make the payments in an appropriate proportion, so that it arrives at a pace and the amounts of payments so that the financial fund can be filled up so that it can be reasonably financed. We also cannot go on discussing such an important issue in addition to what national projects there are. We have argued on this issue many times. The government side regularly claims that no decisions have yet been made as to where a so-called nuclear cemetery will be. [[19.10]] But you know exactly what I'm saying, Mr. Secretary. So there is an approved national programme, and every country must have an approved national programme. This programme, supported by parliamentary decisions, clearly states that Hungary needs an underground geological storage for this purpose, so that we know exactly how to dispose of high-activity waste, and this is also included in the programme, that research on the potential location of this is carried out on a site involving Bodai Claystone Formation for a very long time. This work started in 2013 with greater momentum. But, Mr. Secretary of State, you know very well that there is no such thing in the world as wanting to be so close to such a metropolitan agglomeration, such as simply building a nuclear cemetery, and there is very serious social resistance. By the way, the Director General of the National Atomic Energy Office, who resigned unexpectedly a few weeks ago, acknowledged this at a certain 2019 Spring Boda public hearing that this is a very, very serious problem, there is a very serious social resistance, and something needs to be done about it. That's the question, and it's just turned out otherwise, the Paks II. This is also the question of the public hearing online, this problem is on the government's table, obviously it is not the professionals, it is not the OAH, it is not the RHK Kft. It is the government's duty and responsibility to make decisions on this issue. I can also say that in 2015, the Prime Minister closed the question of whether Pécs, Szentlőrinc and the population of the region were competent to give their opinion on the location of such a nuclear cemetery, because the Prime Minister acknowledged that without the decision and consent of the people of Pécs and the area, the nuclear cemetery cannot be built here in this Bodai Claystone Formation. Realistic locations are about 6-8-10 kilometers from Pécs, from the western borders of Pécs. For a very clear commitment and a very clear promise made by the Prime Minister in Pécs in 2015, no one asked the people of the area whether they supported it. A certain research phase, which runs until 2018, has been completed, and the former mayor of Pécs has previously confirmed that this phase needs to be waited, and then he will have the opportunity to give an opinion to the region. That was generously jumped over. In 2019, the project was granted a permit to research the site and has been under way ever since. Even now, if someone is, let's say, passing at the height of Seven, there you can see brutal rigs hiding in the trees, and you can see that there has been virtually three shifts of research in this area, deep drilling taking place with huge costs. Dear Secretary of State, Only since the Prime Minister made this promise, until today about HUF 10 billion has been spent on this project, by saying in 15 that the Prime Minister has the right to decide whether or not to accept it. Who takes responsibility for this fact, that since then there has been a great deal of time and has gone 10 billion forints for this research, and for some reason they do not fulfil this condition? It is now possible to explore this clay rock formation for decades and then ask the population of the region; so to speak, the results of the question can be covered by everyone. How many more ten billion forints do you want to spend? So it is a very, very serious problem, and here professionals have also specifically recognised it for me and for various forums we have organised, that it is the responsibility of policy makers, that this issue is now closed, and that, if this is necessary, research can take place in alternative locations. Why doesn't the government handle this issue? I would also like to point out one more thing: here the issue of information associations has been raised in the keynote speeches, why Pécs is not a member of this association. So if the Prime Minister acknowledges that Pécs has authority on this issue, so that the people of Pécs must have a realistic opportunity to intervene, then why is Pécs not a member of this information association? Why aren't you a member of the city of Szentlőrinc? Why is Pellérd not a member of the village, Szabadszentkirály settlement, Bicsérd settlement? Why are these settlements not given the opportunity to receive this information regularly, and the information is also given to those living in these settlements and cities? In this regard, too, I hear conflicts in the area that there have been changes in the conditions for the use of aid for the information association. I feel that there are 12 settlements involved in the information association in the affected settlements, as I understand it, there have been serious tensions, and this can generate problems. I do not really want to increase the word for a very long time, and I very much hope that the Secretary of State will answer the questions that have been asked. I would like to get an answer to one more thing, which I think I am not the only one waiting for an answer, but I am very, very interested in the whole Hungarian public opinion as to why the Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office resigned because we did not see an explanation, there was virtually no reason to cancel. And in such a process, when new nuclear power stations are being authorised, the chief executive of the licensing authority resigns, I think that this certainly deserves some sort of explanation; obviously, in the event that, let's say, it is not personal, because it is obviously not a public concern, but if there are some technical reasons behind it, I think that the authorities should be informed to the public. Thank you very much for this opportunity, and I very much hope that our questions will be answered. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. Further speeches may be made by its representatives. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Attila Steiner, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor.
u2021-05-27-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your contributions and support from everyone on our proposal and for our proposal to amend the law. Allow me to react very briefly to what has been said. Mr Balczó has already, I believe, spoken very much about his position on Paks II the previous week, and I do not want to go into the details, but I would like to respond briefly to the points raised by Mrs Gurmai. I think we do need the Paks II investment. I am arguing very strongly that this is not a security of supply issue. This is exactly a security of supply issue. We are talking about whether 40 percent of Hungarian electricity production will remain in Hungary in the long term or not. This is a question that I think is absolutely a security of supply issue. The share of electricity imports in Hungary is already very high, and I think it would be a strategic mistake if this 30-40 percent were to be completed by 40 percent in the long term. This would mean a very, very high level of vulnerability. We also need to take into account what is happening in our immediate neighbourhood and in our wider neighbourhood, as current power plant capacities will not look the same in the mid- 2030s. We are talking about an ageing power plant capacity in this region. Many power plants will be shut down in the coming period, so there will be a very large increase in demand and a reduction in supply everywhere, so it is very important that Hungary has production capacities that can reliably produce electricity even day and night. What Paks credit or payback means, how she appreciates this, I would argue with this, and I believe that the Member is not only arguing with me on this issue, but also with Brussels, because Brussels has also approved this business plan. For a very long time, we have discussed this project in very detailed terms, with a large number of Directors-General within the European Commission, and the European Commission itself has not questioned that this is a profitable investment. That this investment is not profitable, so I would not dare to say it, but, of course, a congresswoman may have such an opinion on the project. I would like to stress to Mr harvester's question that the source will be enough. I think it's very important that we think ahead, and obviously, when the Paks II project comes into play, Paks II. There will also be a contributor to this fund, and the whole concept of the fund will have to be considered by the start of the Paks II project, because then the decommissioning costs of the Paks II project will have to be managed from this fund, but the Paks II project will, of course, also be a very large contributor to this fund. Mr. Crusade asked a lot of questions. First of all, allow me to answer your question about the National Atomic Energy Office. It is very important here that the Director-General of the Atomic Energy Office can submit his resignation without justification, and this is what happened in particular. [[19.20]] I think, since we would like to make the National Atomic Energy Office even more independent of our bill in this regard, you may have been informed of the decision of Mr. Director-General a year or two before he retires, this transformation is likely to have contributed to his commitment to this resignation and he will no longer assume the leadership of the future Atomic Energy Office for the next nine years. It's my personal idea that this might have been behind it, but I don't have any official information I can share with you. Mr Fichtinger should be asked what particular reason he had for submitting his resignation. The Prime Minister did not relieve you of this position. On the other questions, I would also like to assure the Member that I have personally started to consult with the associations, and that we are very careful and listen to what problems they have, what other questions they have, and we are trying to remedy them. In a very constructive atmosphere, we have been able to coordinate in the past. These consultations will continue and we will try to find appropriate solutions to the problems of associations. I would like to draw Mr President's attention to the fact that when we talk about long-term storage and the absence of such projects, this whole issue has been resolved, then I believe in innovation and projects that have already started in many countries in Europe. For example, in Finland, there is a project in a very advanced state, which is expected to be tested as early as the early 2020s. It is a deep-geological container that is expected to be able to handle the storage of nuclear energy waste in the long term. The same project is in the pipeline in Sweden, and soon construction works will start in France for these projects. So I would not bury these projects, because they are very forward-looking projects. On the subject of long-term storage in Hungary, as Mr President said, we have a national policy, which was approved by the Parliament. This national policy says that we need a stable deep-geological storage that can solve the long-term storage of these wastes. However, you have acknowledged that this decision has not yet been made. We are currently in the phase of what possible locations might be. The Bodai Clay Stone Formation seems to be a very promising location. However, these research needs to be carried out as a matter of course, because security is the most important thing in this area. I think we can't take this lightly. These works, these researches also take a very long time at international level, so that we can really say with the utmost certainty that a long-term deep-geological storage is suitable for the purpose for which we are creating it. And that won't be decided by the government, we'll have to bring this to Parliament, and the Parliament will decide that there may be an underground geological storage facility, and then you can give your opinion on this project. I think it is a very prudent attitude to prepare with a central nuclear fund that, when nuclear power plants are to be dismantled, there is a sufficient amount of financial resources at its disposal. And when we counted the return on the Paks II project and agreed with the European Commission, this was one of the key issues. The Commission wanted to make sure that these costs were duly taken into account in the calculation of return, and the Commission concluded that, yes, this power plant would be able to generate these costs. As I have already said, when we get to the stage where we can safely report on the results of deep geological research, then, of course, the parliamentary debate will also be a debate that will take place in public, where everyone can express their views on these results. It is very important that we really do act in full and in the most thorough and critical way possible on this issue. The results will be very detailed by the government for the National Assembly, and then the Parliament will be able to decide whether or not to accept this solution. Thank you very much for your attention, and thank you again for the support of Members.
u2021-05-27-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. There will now be speeches after the agenda or a statement after the agenda. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP Group: our city, called Pécs.
u2021-05-27-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, in my speeches after the agenda, I am talking about the problems of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya. I think it is important to see that the region, Pécs and Baranya County have also become the loser of the post-regime period, and our situation has deteriorated in many respects in the last eleven years. The county of Baranya is now the last country in terms of per capita industrial performance. The city with the right of Pécs county is the last place in economic performance among the large Hungarian rural regional centres. Unfortunately, the effects of this deep flight can be seen from tragic emigration data. If we look at Pécs alone, we can say that over a decade nearly 15,000 people have left Pécs for basically living reasons, but the loss of population in the entire county is also astonishing. It can be seen that we have a lot of work to do to stop this disruption and to finally set our region on course for development. Obviously, we must always make criticism, and we will do so in relation to the bad leadership decisions of the past decades and the past decades, but we also need to talk about what we have to do. It must be very clear that in order to achieve a meaningful change in this situation, we need a change of government and we need to replace the Fidesz Members who could not act on this issue. There is also a need for a change of government and a need for a different composition of Parliament, because the creation of the basic conditions for development requires parliamentary decisions and a change of law, which cannot be done by municipal authority. I would like to talk about these issues in my speech today, essentially with regard to transport infrastructure and the transport system. It can be seen that the lower road network has fallen to a shocking extent over the past decade, so there is a huge amount of funding to be provided and budget opportunities are available for this. We have already tabled an amendment to next year's budget in this regard, but it is clearly possible to face this task after a change of government. It is very important to ensure that the necessary and missing connections to date are also ensured, so that the situation of the stalemate settlements is resolved, so that they have a direct connection to the main transport routes. It is very important that after many, many promises and delays, the M6 may continue and reach the border. At the same time, the extension of the M60 motorway, mentioned at today's meeting, to the Croatian border, Barcsig, is essential. Further border crossing points between Barcs and Drávaszabolcs are also needed to strengthen cross-border links. This is one of the longest untraceable roads in Hungary. [[19.30]] Other major infrastructure improvements are also needed. The development of the main railway line into a two-track path is of great importance for suburban transport. But perhaps the most important change, the details of which we should talk about, is that we should finally implement the basic transport reform that we have often heard promises of over the last decade. It is therefore also necessary to establish a single transport system by amending the appropriate laws and changing the legislative environment that will finally allow for more efficient service. We need to coordinate the various Community transport subsectors, establish transport associations in which municipalities are involved, and allow transport with a single tariff system and a single lease. So obviously we also need to establish a proper transport alliance with the centre of Pécs for Baranya County, so that we can give the people living in Komló, Kozármisleny and other settlements in the region the opportunity to travel with the same season ticket and a single transport system, where appropriate, to travel from Komló to Pécs and use local transport in Pécs and then to go home after work. That would be a huge help. By transforming the financing system, low-cost leases could provide a much better transport service for people living in Pécs, Komlón, Kozármisleny and all settlements in the region. It is very, very important that a proper fleet of vehicles is also needed for the development of good, high-quality Community transport. We can see that this has always been a constant challenge in recent decades, and that Pécs's bus park is in extremely poor and ageing condition. Appropriate resources should also be provided to replace this. This in itself also offers an economic and job creation opportunity, because if we install a assembly, production capacity in the city, we can create a lot of jobs in addition to the continuous renewal of the fleet. So we have the options, we have the plans, we need the change of government at last, and in this area we can also create the infrastructure conditions for Pécs and Baranya's development career. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-27-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session will take place on 31 May 2021. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
