u2021-04-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 8th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that three of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. We only recently learned about the death of Jenő Kovács, who obtained his mandate from the National List of MSZP in the first free parliamentary elections after the regime change, and was a member of the Parliament until 1992. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Committee on Human Rights, Minority and Religion and National Security. Retiring from the political career until retirement, he was active in business. He died in the 73rd year of his life. Also recently, Zoltán Rigler died, who was a Member of the Fidesz Parliament from 1998 to 2002. He obtained his mandate from the party's regional list in Győr-Moson-Sopron county. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Economic Committee and Chairman of the Infrastructure Development Sub-Committee. Previously, he was a representative of the Győr-Moson-Sopron County General Assembly, the founder of Fidesz's business division and chairman of the county selection. He passed away 63rd year of his life. In 2010, Géza Varga obtained a mandate from the party's national list in the colors of Jobbik, and he was a member of the Hungarian Parliament for a period of time. Under his mandate, he worked on the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and was Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Common Agricultural Policy. He died in the 74th year of his life as a politician known for his outstanding knowledge and dedication in agriculture. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, the leader of the Dialogue Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2021-04-07-1	My fellow Members, the first word is condolence: 311 people died yesterday in Hungary in a coronal virus. Since the outbreak, we have never lost so many fathers, mothers, grandmothers, grandpas in one day. Orbán said in September that we can measure the success of defence in the number of lives saved. We are now at the point of dying every five minutes in Hungary in a coronal virus. Since the beginning of the outbreak, Hungary has been at the forefront of the death of the Crown Virus per million people. Even if you're trying to cosmetrate the data from here and there, unfortunately, you can't sugarcoat it. Viktor Orbán's epidemic treatment failed. But he failed not because the Prime Minister couldn't help people, but because the Prime Minister didn't want to help people. While all European countries have taken effective measures in time, and common money has been spent to strengthen health care and help the unemployed and workers and businesses, Viktor Orbán has driven away 5,000 doctors and nurses in the middle of the epidemic; he has watered down residents who save lives in the hospital; Árpád Habony wants to close the Szabolcs street hospital in the middle of the epidemic because of his real estate business; and he has called on the terminally exhausted health workers to stop whining, he is sleeping for four hours, and there is no lack of romance. Isn't there a lack of romance? This is what the Prime Minister can say to doctors, nurses, who are literally physically and mentally interrupted in saving the lives of others; who are on the verge of exhaustion because Orbán has now given more than HUF 80 billion to the hunting exhibition of Zsolt Semjén, not to hospitals but to Zsolt Semjén? 80 billion forints for a hunting exhibition instead of helping hospitals! That is why, among other things, most people die in Hungary in proportion to the population of the world in the corona virus, because Viktor Orbán is incompetent, inhuman, a cynical thief. And this cynical thief, on the day he made a record of death, wants to open up and put millions of lives in danger again. He wanted to open because he said that he thought two and a half million vaccinated people in Hungary meant two and a half million people protected from the virus. We only know that two and a half million vaccinees do not mean two and a half million protected people, because only one million of the two and a half million vaccinated people have already received their second vaccine. And Viktor Orbán knows this precisely, if not from another place, from the epidemiological experts of his own government, that the first vaccination has not yet protected us from the virus, and after the first one, unfortunately, we have not heard of a case where they have been sick, so don't give me the God, I've been vaccinated by those who have passed away. We can talk about immunity after the second vaccination, and once again: only one million out of two and a half million people have received their second vaccination in Hungary. [[13.10]] You can't create an illusion right now! We need to continue our defenses, we need to continue our vaccination registration, the government needs to encourage people to do this. You have to put people out, you have to wear masks, you have to keep your distance, and you don't encourage people to believe that the virus is over. But if Viktor Orbán knew that there were no two and a half million protected people, then why would he lie to people? Would you be so worried about the workers who lost their jobs that you want to start the economy again? Well, hell, no. If that were the case, Viktor Orbán would build at the heart of Budapest, the VIII. In the district, he surrounded a Chinese university with a wall. Viktor Orbán is reopening not the Hungarian economy, but the Chinese economy. But if the aim is not to restart the Hungarian economy, where does the so-called moral limit of two and a half million come from? Is it a coincidence that it was just yesterday that Viktor Orbán wanted to apply for the summer soccer tournament? It'd be a coincidence to find out. [[Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government ranks.]] That in June, Viktor Orbán wants to hold 20-30,000 football matches, is that why he wants to open? Please respond to this, honourable members of the Government, as to why Viktor Orbán is putting the lives of millions of Hungarians in jeopardy again! It's a dangerous game, and it's gonna end up bad again. The Dialogue calls on the government to stop lying about Soros, Brussels, anti-vaccination, non-existent opposition movements. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You're against vaccination! Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] Here, we know for a fact that we're pro-vaccination. Tell that to you too. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-04-07-2	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2021-04-07-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I understand it, you're making a statement about the exact amount of immunity that two and a half million vaccinees have. I suggest that we leave this to the health professionals, the government always makes decisions on their proposals. I would add that if we followed your proposals and demands, there would be hundreds of thousands fewer people in Hungary today. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: That's right!]] The history includes that we were already in the third wave, when you, your mayor, would have held big events on 15 March. If the operational tribe hadn't called you, you would've kept it. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: That's right!]] And it's also part of the whole picture that left parties, although we were in the third wave, demanded an opening, and that we open immediately. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] From Jobbik to Momentum, left parties demanded an opening. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] After that, the reboot is now being criticized only by the usual duplicity and left-wing cynicism. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: That's right!]] So you'd have two and a half million inoculated to keep the barbershops and other service providers closed. Then be straight and tell them how long they'd keep them locked up. In any case, a million vaccinees didn't have a word when Klara Dobrev was touring the country, not wearing a mask, they didn't have a word! [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I think you should be careful.]] An important change... don't threaten me, Congresswoman. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, you brave man, you!]] An important...
u2021-04-07-4	Would you be quiet, please? Would you be quiet, please? He comes into this room, and the first thing he does is yell at me about something he doesn't know because he didn't show up on time. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2021-04-07-5	An important change has occurred since the last meeting: the fact that opposition party leaders have been inoculated in a lot of rows. So, after weeks, months of unsettling campaigning, your protection was considered important. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Sometimes the events of politics can be described simply, and what happened here is that others have been dissuaded, but they have been submitted to you. Oh, yeah. Even a few days ago, you claimed that Fidesz fraction members were inoculated. [[Szabó Timea: No, I didn't say that!]] That was as much a lie as before. If that were true, one of our fellow Members wouldn't be on a ventilator. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Then another fellow Member wouldn't have spent weeks in intensive care. But you are completely insensitive to these facts, just as you are to human dignity. Typically, when they went to the injection point to arrange their own vaccination, they did not dare to claim that there was no vaccination plan that it had all collapsed, as they had previously said. That's because then you should have said that to the eyes of those who have done the whole thing, and have been fighting the hardest fight for months and protecting people's lives. Now, we're not going to wonder why you, who a few days ago asked why the older people didn't get the vaccine, should have the chance now. I'm telling you, the opposition party leaders got it. Instead, it is noted that you may have received it because the vaccination plan is working and the government has acquired vaccines. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Everyone will remember that their own safety was considered very important, but they would have refused to do so to others, other Hungarians. And anyone who would weaken the security of Hungarians in a case would also do so in other cases. Unfortunately, they didn't stop at the anti-vaccination campaign, it wasn't enough, they put a shovel on it, because a left-wing strategist in the last few days talked about the causes: he said that a specific targeted campaign should be launched for the left-wing families. He thinks it could affect up to 200,000 people. What a soulless calculation that is! [[13.20]] On one thing, his analysis was inaccurate, in fact, you started this campaign, this soulless campaign months ago. That's what they do at practically every parliamentary meeting. It doesn't matter about human dignity, it doesn't matter. [[Szabó Timea: Put on the mask instead!]] If you don't add a gram of help to this, this country will still overcome this epidemic. We have exceeded two and a half million inoculated, and this is also two and a half million evidence that left-wing policy is not only a mistake, but also a moral failure. Don't be proud of him. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-6	Now it's time for LMP Group Leader László Keresztes Lóránt.
u2021-04-07-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I will also start today by thanking everyone who is working to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people at such a difficult time. As a reaction, the Secretary of State just let me say that one of your influential State Secretarys said at the beginning of October, he accused a virology professor of alarm on television and said at the beginning of October that the numbers had stabilized. I think that, on the basis of this one fact, we can expect much more modesty from you here in the work of the Parliament, honourable Members. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] It is very important to discuss before the agenda what a series of despicable things you are preparing for during the critical period of the epidemic. But what is happening here in three days before the National Assembly is nothing more than the outsourcing, shoveling, and unpacking of a significant part of the public wealth instead of a meaningful crisis management to the figures and politicians close to you. You want to create a whole range of trust funds, and obviously you have extremely loyal people under the control of various powerful assets, and you give them powers that must always be in the power of the government. I would like to mention, as a very, very bad example, that the presentation of the MOL New Europe Foundation has been formulated by you as a huge public asset coming into the foundation here as well, that it has not even been written that the public funds thus assigned to the private foundation must then be used for public purposes. That's a pretty amazing and brazen attitude. You set up the so-called Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, and here you also want to outsource government functions. Tobacco product trading, gambling market supervision, judicial enforcement and supervisory authority over liquidators are being removed from government power and given to people loyal to you who, according to your intentions, will have these powers irreparably and irretrievably for nine years. Everyone who follows the work of the Hungarian Parliament must know what you are doing in such a critical epidemiological situation. We can say that what they are planning to do against Hungarian higher education is perhaps the meanest step. You are lying that the development of higher education requires the outsourcing of universities to private foundations. This is an obvious lie, the best, most respected universities in Europe are typically state-owned. It is also quite clear that what is happening now is the outsourcing and political direction of universities, university wealth, university property and university decision-making. It is also a lie, which is often said that university leaders, the university senates, have volunteered for this so-called model change, because we can see that you have practically blackmailed universities with EU development resources. At the committee meeting, one of your politicians said in particular at the meeting that anyone who misses a model change would also be left out of development resources. So this was an open blackmail. But you do not want to explain, do you, my honourable fellow Members, honourable members of the Government, that we must give to those who are loyal to the government, to members of the Fidesz, to ministers of state, to the right of decision over Hungarian universities, which is irreparably your intention? On the basis of the proposals before us in Parliament, not the university senates will appoint the curators, but the government, only the government. In your intention, these curators cannot be recalled, they can take all the important decisions, from the university budget even the terms of the rector's application, and in the organizational and operational regulations they can detract and delegate the powers of practically all university bodies led by university citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you really want to lie to the Hungarian people, or do you also lie to them, or do you want them to believe that Péter Szijjártó, Judit Varga, István Bajkai, János Lázár has to give irreparably the rights of decision over the Hungarian universities? Is this the development of higher education? This is an outrage, fellow Members. I do not know if they have any idea, for example, of the significance of large rural universities in addition to their central, direct higher education functions. They are typically the largest employers and most important economic operators in the cities concerned. These are universities with tens of thousands of students, such as the University of Debrecen, and obviously the largest economic operator is the university. Do you, by the way, want to hand these universities, which play an extremely important role in the centre of the 20 poorest regions of the Union, into the hands of unrecallable Fidesz curators? ! This is quite simply a robbery and an outrage, and this is aggravated by the fact that you want to do this in a serious epidemiological situation. But I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not a national policy, do not lie that this is a national policy. This is the future of the future, this is the future of the young Hungarians, which is a disgrace. I think that, in addition to the fact that we will, of course, present our opinion on this in the debate on Friday, [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] now, every opportunity and every means must be given to university citizens and employees to express their protests, even at the cost of a strike. Thank you.
u2021-04-07-8	Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has the floor.
u2021-04-07-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to join you in thanking you for all your work and for every minute of your time helping the defense, the doctors, the nurses. Speaking of higher education, allow me to thank those students, those young university students and young Hungarians who are doing their part in the fight against the virus. We're proud of them. Allow me to say this here, too, we are proud of the students who study health, who are on the front line and help Hungarian people. We also have to say that while these young people, young girls and young boys are on the front line, fighting and saving lives, the left is endangering the lives of Hungarian people with its anti-vaccination campaign. As a result of fear of vaccines, there are those who do not get vaccinated and can die. Honourable Congressman, You have raised a number of questions that we will be able to discuss in substance and in detail this week. But let us be clear, and let us be clear, that these debates are worthy of taking place on the basis of facts. Honourable Congressman, You know perfectly well that you know that the aim of the historic university development is to provide modern training for young Hungarians and to become the winners of the future. This is Hungary's strategic goal, however, that these developments, these model changes, these new opportunities will also contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of Hungary and the sustainability of the economy. Honourable Member, do not do the world of universities... Don't make the world of universities a field of party politics. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Honourable Member, more important question... [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Honourable Congressman, The future of Hungarian youth is a more important issue, and the success of Hungarian youth is more important than you want to make a party policy out of it. You don't want to keep finding topics where you can start over with your element of existence, the incitement to war. [[Gergely Harvester: Oh!]] Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian university sphere, our higher education institutions, is indeed one of the most important bases of Hungarian knowledge, defining the country's future. Therefore, it is particularly important to see and make clear that they need to be treated with caution, taken care of, and at the same time [[Gergely Harvesto: Oh, boy!]] It's time for a change after all. [[Gergely Harvesto: You take care of her so much, you take her home! Deterioration in opposition benches.]] the time has come for the development of these institutions. [[A voice from the opposition: Ooh!]] Indeed, in the development of higher education, it is particularly important to increase domestic knowledge, innovation on the base of talent, the creation of a model, an institutional system where higher education institutions can become key players in a given region, the region. [[13.30]] And, honourable Member, it is indeed necessary that people who have a local identity, who have a commitment to the institution should be included in the Curatorium of these foundations for higher education institutions. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman to Fidesz. Interjections, disclosure in DK's ranks.]] who have Pécs, Szeged, Debrecen, and could be added to what kind of commitment who... [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Brenner turning to Koloman:]] Mr. Congressman, I don't usually call you my little friend either. [[Interjections, publicity in the opposition's ranks.]] So, honourable Parliament, honourable Member, allow me to finish the sentences. [[Péter Ungár: I look forward to it!]] It is about the need for the Curatorium of these institutions for people who have a local identity, consider the region important, consider the institutions important, and are with the professors, the key actors of the Academy [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and can develop strategic goals together with companies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjections, publicity in the opposition's ranks.]]
u2021-04-07-10	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your patience. It's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Congressman, Mr. Group Leader.]]
u2021-04-07-11	Thank you for the President's kindness, I'd be honored...
u2021-04-07-12	I didn't mean to. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Is this really what you want?!]]
u2021-04-07-13	... I'll return the favor. So, for the Spring Feast Circle, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Easter!]] The most important message of all is life. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's called Easter!]] The Passover is about life, it's about deliverance from slavery, and the resurrection is about life winning over death. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Starts from afar!]] The question now is that, when Hungary otherwise provides the most scandalous death data in the world, life has actually succeeded in winning death with the help of this government. I'd like to tell you something that you're going to make a scandal of, and I suspect you'll be jumping on me in the next few weeks, but while I've been thinking about what to tell you, I've stayed with myself to tell you. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Calm down, colleagues, calm down. My father was in prison about four or five times in his life who wanted to know. He wasn't much of a scoundrel, he was small, but he did that right. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] For a relatively low level of abuse, my father's been thrown in jail a number of times. Meanwhile, Hungary has a government, many members of its government and a leader who is responsible for the deaths of the hundreds who have left in the last few weeks. These are not statistical data; they were parents, they were children, they were missing. You know, you're worried about your own, I think you're worried about friends and relatives, someone's worried about them, too. It's called reckless endangerment in the workplace, or perhaps even more. My father was arrested a few times for ten thousand forints for a few months. I remember my mother woke me up when I was five or six, that we were going somewhere, so far away from Pope, I was an adult when it turned out that we went to Vác prison to see my father, who had a sin, no doubt. The question is that you have a sin. I think you do. The question is not, I say to the secretary of state, that I think we are doing well with the vaccine now, and I, too, who was vaccinated, can say that it went flat, the question is what they had done before, how dare you take the risk of defending Hungarians, if necessary, with restrictions or fear of this political risk, and hundreds of people have gone away, just as there are more than three hundred today. You killed them. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] My father went to prison for a few thousand forints, and all you can talk about is that two and a half million were inoculated. Oh, thank God. It's okay, by the way. What I see is that everything works when you don't interfere, and nothing works when this government tries to do something because you're incapable of steering. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's right!]] The fact is, please, that today in Hungary for much less than what you do, people will be taken away and locked up. I would like to say something to you: you will be taken away, not so long, in a year and a year and a half, because you did not protect the Hungarians, but you have contributed to the death of hundreds, and you will be responsible for this, and we will take account of this responsibility. Do you know when? When we win. [[A statement from the ruling parties: "Never then!"]] And you know when we're gonna win? Next year. And there will be no mercy for you, I'd like to say. Goodbye.
u2021-04-07-14	I would like everyone to take a ten-second break while everyone swallows what's going on in their throats and give the Secretary of State the opportunity to respond calmly to this rare tasteless comment. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Gergely Arató: That's what the Secretary of State is famous for!]]
u2021-04-07-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not at all competent to know why your father was in prison, so I don't want to comment. But what I do know is that you seem to consider your most important task in the middle of an epidemic to threaten me, threatening me in the middle of an epidemic, and this is a direct sequel to the fact that a few weeks ago you threatened other thinkers by making them runaways. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And those words don't usually remain unanswered, because his men are coming, James Peter is coming [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The party of Christmas is coming, and the same threats are being heard. Notice your own responsibility. And the thing is, we can't be surprised enough that he hasn't changed since your Balatoness. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Now I can't remember what DK's logo looks like, but I suggest you replace it with rubber bullets, because they're still pursuing the same policy. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] He was a party to the threats, and he was a part of the threats that he made, and he's still a part of it. And as for the question of how many people we injected, you may have said that that is not the question, but that is the question. In the middle of an epidemic, when we're in the third wave, the most important question is how many people we've vaccinated, and I can see that they're trying to deny that they've been conducting an anti-vaccination campaign for weeks, months. We remember everything very well, there will be no room for hundreds of tricks here, there will be no place here, because we remember how they attacked the licensing authority's decision, we remember how they started a petition that they tried to cover up these days. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] We also recall how their previous candidate refused to give vaccinations on the spot, and then a mayor in Budapest claimed that there was no demand for vaccinations, so that the local residents did not even know that vaccinations could be requested otherwise. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The left has to be left with one thing: they have a tremendous experience in overwriting the past to remove evidence, but here it is not going to work, they cannot deny what they have done. We have set many examples, but allow me to bring up another one, because there has been less talk about it. A few weeks ago, a group of opposition leaders presented a resolution proposal to have a committee of inquiry [[Gergely Harvesto: That's right!]] on Chinese vaccines. It can be seen from the presentation that the elderly would have been deprived of the opportunity to receive such a vaccine. [[Gergely Harvester: You're lying! You're lying! That's not true.]] , and the justification is that such vaccines cannot be vaccinated at all without the approval of Brussels. From that point of view, it is not surprising that in the resolution published on their website, they openly demanded that these vaccines be banned. Do you know whose name is on this resolution proposal at the beginning of the list? I think they'll figure it out. For you, Ferenc Gyurcsány. And you can play your own role in slack-off videos, but it doesn't make it happen that you've been involved in the darkest campaign in recent years. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] We've seen a lot of things on our own, but they still have something new and worse to show us. [[13.40]] Without the need for completeness, we note that this vaccine proposal has been signed by Ágnes Vadai, Péter Jakab, Lajos Rig as paramedic, István Hiller this surprised me, Lajos Korózs this did not surprise me, Timea Szabó, Bence Tordai and many others. So that I don't miss the LMP, Erzsébet Schmuck signed it. So what happens next? The fact that he had a nice shot in the shadow of the resolution proposal. What kind of vaccine? With the Chinese! [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No, no!]] That's what he used to inoculate himself. We have no further questions, but we have further questions because you were not alone when you were vaccinated as opposition leader. Since then, Ferenc Gyurcsány you have also referred to it, Gergely Christmas, Péter Jakab, Timea Szabó, and who knows how many other opposition leaders. Others were dissuaded, but they gave in to you under the gardens, like the mayor of Gyöngyös, who, according to the vaccination program, based on the vaccination program that was denied here and elsewhere. I think the heroes of the fight against the epidemic will be able to erect a statue and an imaginary deterrent statue of hypocrisy and irresponsibleness, and on the pedestal will bear the names of the left-wing representatives, directly under your name, or in the order that this anti-vaccination resolution has been signed. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you could have been on the list of those fighting the epidemic, but you have chosen the other way to bear the consequences. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-16	Now it's time for Tamás Bellozó, on the part of the MSZP.
u2021-04-07-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, It's heavy. We are living in a time when the Hungarian Parliament should be concerned about what it is doing. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's the way it is again! Intruder from Fidesz: Come on!]] What is the job of the Hungarian Parliament, a representative body of any kind? I don't think it's even the most important thing at the moment that you're making accusations about each other. [[Moore from the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you speaking against Gyurcsány?]] I'm sure you've read it somewhere, but basically, the Parliament is a meeting point of Members of Parliament representing voters and people with different beliefs and attitudes, where in such a situation everyone should tell everyone what should be done, in order to be better for people, to argue, to suggest, to convince. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Have you told Gyurcsány?]] But there's no sign of it here. I tell him, too, but I tell you most of all, those who have received this week's written text again, I suppose, from the Rogán Ministry, which cannot be dissented, are forbidden to think, to answer in substance, and may even forbid your feelings to be actually spoken here in Parliament. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] My fellow Members and, above all, Government Secretarys of State, the genre of Parliament is not just about us talking to each other here. In recent times, one would feel that it is a pity to do so, but the Hungarian public is watching what we are talking about, so I would like to make some very specific suggestions, including on the basis of what we listened to last week with experts, virologists, paramedics in the opposition inquiry committee. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] Don't yell at me, grow up to do the job a little bit, for God's sake! [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks.]] The first one. Now, if you'll be so kind as to start organizing contact research slowly at the end of an epidemic, not in the middle of it. Be kind to give people a free test, because these two things can make a big contribution not to be a fourth wave, just as there was no mention of the third wave, when Viktor Orbán played wrestling carpeting with the second wave at the beginning of January. Be kind when the millions of shots arrive, we'll know very soon, and you'll be sure to, because you'll see the contracts, the mass vaccinations will be rigged. There are very good examples, including stadiums in the United States, Western Europe, and car vaccinations, so that as safe as possible, as many people as possible, as many as tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands per day can be vaccinated in such a situation. Three. Be kind enough to review the opening of schools with the date of the 19th. All experts say that there is a very serious risk of this, taking 1.5 million children back to school with their parents when several people said that two and a half million injections are not even two and a half million protected people. A million people got their second shot, and they're still two weeks away. You know it's a gamble, especially if you don't take the first two steps. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of new rules, thanks to God, this isn't an opening that the Prime Minister announced yesterday. 311 people died yesterday, 12,000 in the hospital, more than 1,400 on a ventilator. A sane man wouldn't even open up at a time like this. It's nothing but a review of stupid and harmful rules that we've asked of you since February, among other things. We did not ask for an opening, but a review of foolish and harmful rules, such as the fact that millions of people were forced to go shopping every day between 5:30 and 7:00 p.m. It's right that you've changed. But what hasn't changed is your policy to leave people without money, that there is no 100 percent sick pay, that they don't give 80 percent wage support, that they don't give money, that they don't give money to Hungarian companies to survive, but that they are given credit. We think they're not okay, and, yeah, we, as left-wing parties, wouldn't let that happen. But from the very first minute, we told everyone to consult with their home doctor and have him give you the vaccine that your home doctor is recommending. So much for anti-vaccination. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-04-07-18	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-04-07-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian Parliament would not be the venue for accusations against each other. It is not as if we heard Ference Gyurcsány a few minutes ago, who, after proclaiming the language of love, and that the politician should speak in the name of love, this programme, then the entire government side, everyone who was part of the fact that twice as many people in Hungary received the vaccine as in the European Union, threatened to put everyone in jail, honourable Member. Then you spoke of the left, that you should not be concerned with accusations against each other, while Ferenc Gyurcsány did nothing but threaten, threaten, and threaten for five minutes. That's what he's done to right-wing intellectuals, right-wing artists, churches, and who knows who's against everyone. In Hungary, as you know, almost all infections are now given by the British viral mutant. This is why the numbers are much higher than in the first and second waves. We call this the third wave, but perhaps, as many experts say, it is worth calling the first wave of the British mutant, or we hope to call it the first and last wave of the British mutant, because it is a completely different virus mutant with much faster spread, much more attacking everyone and with much more serious consequences than that which attacked the Hungarian people's organization in the first and second waves. Therefore, it is particularly important that we hurry with the vaccinations. Every day here, every hour counts, honourable Member. When you talked about it for months, and I will also bring you quotes about it, when you talked for months about the fact that neither Russian vaccine nor Chinese vaccine should be imported into Hungary, Hungarian people should not be vaccinated with Russian or Chinese vaccines, and you would have launched a petition, banned, and submitted a parliamentary resolution proposal, which also meant that Hungarian-licensed vaccines other than the authorisation of the European pharmaceutical authority should not be administered, then you campaigned to allow the Hungarian people to get a slower vaccination. Now we can see the difference, half the speed. Today there would be about a million fewer people who have been vaccinated, and the British virus mutant is not counting on your watch, honourable Member, but is spreading, it is spreading much faster in Britain, Hungary and the Czech Republic, and it is spreading much faster in every country to which it is included. That is why it is extremely irresponsible, and that is why you are putting human lives at risk when you campaigned against Hungary getting a Chinese and Russian vaccine at all, and then you asked people not to give it to you, because you said that this is a human experiment to become Putin's laboratory in Hungary; the government started campaigning with the Sputnik vaccine with the Chinese, and people refuse to submit it to your organization. I understand them, I wouldn't do that. [[Zoltán Balczó: Who said that?]] András Fekete-Győr said he wouldn't submit the Chinese vaccine, and he agrees with the people who wouldn't submit it. [[13.50]] But if the yelling came from Jobbik's benches, Jobbik's announcement: "The Chinese vaccine, like the Russian vaccine, has a completely opaque development. Or from the lines of the LMP: orbán do not force the Chinese vaccine. What does that mean, Congressman? It means that people should be vaccinated as soon as possible when the British mutant spreads much faster than any other coronal virus, honourable Member. That actually means putting people's lives at risk. This is the real irresponsible thing to do when they slow down vaccinations, when left-wing mayors stand up and ask that Chinese vaccines not come in their districts, in their cities. It's part of being irresponsible. Part of the hypocrite is that afterwards, out of the way or out of the way, they go away and inoculate themselves because they know it's the vaccine, the vaccine, that's what's gonna help. You said no fourth wave. What can we do to prevent this, honourable Member? By giving as many people as possible a shot. What did you talk people out of? Asking for a vaccine, asking for a Chinese vaccination and asking for a Russian vaccination. That would have put people's lives at risk. If this strategy of the left had been implemented in Hungary, we could unfortunately talk about a lot more dead people. And what did you say from MSZP, István Újhelyi, when the third wave started? It's too strictly limited by the government, it should be opened. The Momentum also said: let's reopen the country, it is time to announce the relief of the restrictions. From the Jobbik, Peter James said at the beginning of the third wave: "It must be opened, or we will be closed for good. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You would have opened everything at the beginning of the third wave to spread the British mutant freely and killed much slower, which could have cost much more people their health and lives. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-07-20	I give the floor to Peter James.
u2021-04-07-21	Thank you for the floor. First of all, allow me, fellow Members, to thank everyone who is carrying this country on their backs with their work. You are not among them, I add, because you are not concerned with the country, but with yourself, and not in any way. You know, I have the video that the Prime Minister recently shared on his Facebook page. The video shows that the Prime Minister looks at himself in a mirror, orbán quotes are written on the mirror with the impression that these are the laws of Hungary. How sick of a character does that take? To have someone look at their own quotes in a mirror, saying that these are the supreme laws of the country! The main law of this country is that every game lasts as long as we don't win. Or, we only have what we can protect. Very nice thoughts, but believe me, we'd be out of this crisis much sooner if it were written on this mirror that you didn't steal, cheat, lie, don't take away what belongs to someone else, don't build stadiums, don't urinate hospitals when the people are miserable. Instead, the Prime Minister figures that in the middle of the crisis, it is time to build an airport in Felcsú, so that he can fly from the back of the garden to the Maldives or Dubai or Uzbekistan, right, to inaugurate the first Uzbek-Hungarian potato research institute. Or when tens of thousands die in hospitals in this country, hundreds of thousands lose their livelihoods and salaries, the most important thing for you is to find out the new potatoes in Uzbekistan. Congratulations. Colleagues, domestic is no longer good, homemade potatoes are no longer an option, are they that bad? Meanwhile, a hunting exhibition will be held here for 67 billion forints. The government spends 52 billion forints all year on the National Rescue Service, but to present Zsolt Semjén's hobby, we will simply beat 67 billion forints, plus for tens of millions they will build a gate from deer antlers, saying that this will represent the unity of the nation. I'll be damned, fellow Members! You know what would represent the nation's unity? If this government finally gave back 80 percent wage support to troubled workers, entrepreneurs, if they were to raise the unemployment benefit, if they could keep the executives in check if health workers finally got all the financial help they needed to fight it. Now, that would mean national unity. But no! You spend 52 billion dollars on saving lives, 67 billion forints on showing deer ants. Well, I'm sorry, but this country hasn't had such a fucked-up government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Hey, how are you talking?!]] I'm not the only one saying this, so make no mistake. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: How do you speak?]] [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: How do you speak?]] One of the founding members of Fidesz (Dr. Bence Rétvári: How do you talk?) You admitted that neither the Prime Minister nor the Chief Officer are fit to handle the situation, and you're right. He's right. Or do you think it's normal for Muller Cecília to go on public television and encourage the Hungarians to do their best to get infected? And two days later, the Prime Minister goes into the public radio and tells us to take what Muller Cecília says because he knows what the truth is. Or do you think it's normal for the Prime Minister to shut down a hospital in Budapest in the middle of an epidemic because he wants the property? Or is it normal that while hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are waiting for vaccination, you are handing over Pfizer vaccines to other countries? Or is it okay that while health workers now send out a cry for help every day that there is trouble, Minister Kásler lies in our faces that health care is so strong that we are not shaken? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] Of course, you're not shaken, I can see that. They're constantly urinating, squirming, enjoying the heat from the Maldives, and humiliating those who still run this country for you. Have you managed to get 5,500 medical personnel out of the hospitals in one day, who have survived, and are you going to piss them off in a pompous manner? ! Is that what these people deserve? People who save lives day and night? Or do teachers deserve the government to get into them just because they wanted to get inoculated in time so they could welcome our children protected in schools? Is that what teachers deserve? Take a look at yourselves. You're gonna kick a pair of feet into everyone who's gonna keep this country alive instead of you. But they are so pleased with themselves, but so satisfied that they voted for millions of rewards for themselves. After more than 20,000 Hungarians died in this country, nearly half a million Hungarians no longer have jobs, more than two million people are crippled under the minimum living standards, businesses are failing every day, prices are out of control. But you don't care about all that. He doesn't care! The point is, let's build a deer daddy and find the Uzbek potatoes. The valets are gonna take care of everything else at home, isn't that what this is about? Colleagues, after that, I have one question: how can the Prime Minister look in the mirror in his study? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-04-07-22	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2021-04-07-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, He clearly had a serious problem with his speech as to how Ferenc Gyurcsány could tromfol about his threat to the jakobinus dictatorship. But I respectfully see that you've managed to jump this bar, because you've managed to get involved with Officer Müller Cecília and question her work. Allow me to reject this on behalf of the Government and on behalf of Hungary. For you, of course... [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Of course, you have the right to criticize politicians, of course you have the right to take a different position from the government, but I think that in the middle of a pandemic, health and public health workers who have been working hard for a year against a coronal virus epidemic, to attack in this way, are irresponsible and unacceptable. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Peter James: You have a text understanding problem!]] The height of Ferenc Gyurcsány and the depth of Ferenc Gyurcsány you managed to continue. There's a saying that a lie produces a hundred, and that's how it was in your case. You have lied before in connection with the introduction of an extraordinary legal order [[Gergely Harvestó: When does the government report here in Parliament?]] They lied about death statistics, lied about economic data, lied about vaccinations. And these lies will come back to you in a row. He spoke long enough about the economy, but if he looks at economic data, he can see that Hungary has done better in comparison to the European average in terms of both unemployment and economic downturn, and according to European statistics, the Hungarian economy will perform better in the coming years than the European average. This is obviously not independent of the wage support, credit moratorium program that we have launched, the reduction of the VAT on new housing, the renovation programme, the unprecedented increase in wages by doctors, the retirement of the 13th month pension, the tax relief of under 25 years and other tax reductions, the zero-percent loans to the smallest enterprises and the municipal development programmes, which operate with more resources this year than during the pre-poverty period. What hurts Jobbik in this context and in the defense is that I can see in your communication that the vaccination program is successful. In his February radio interview, the Prime Minister specifically said that by April two and a half million of the people who have so far registered will be vaccinated. [[14.00]] With a 0.5 percent margin of error, the Prime Minister found out exactly how many people we're going to inoculate, and you're attacking it with false news on social media. So it is clear that, while you are receiving the vaccine, you are still not supporting healthcare workers, but you are also attacking the vaccination program in which tens of thousands of health workers, general doctors and government officials are once again saying: not politicians, not politicians like you or me, simple, two-handed workers, health workers, professionals, while, if you knew, there is a responsibility in the world as a Member of Parliament, even if it were not legal, but political responsibility, hundreds of thousands of people would be less vaccinated in Hungary. Let us recall that you told the Prime Minister that you were acting like an African quack, like a Chinese pharmaceutical agent. In other words, if there's some Chinese stuff that a few millions of people have received, it'll certainly be good for the Hungarians. It's human experimentation and extortion. Do you understand, Mr. Group Leader? Do you understand? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's how you talked! Dr. Pál Völner: That's what you said!]] The voters of Jobbik, the voters of the MSZP, the voters of Fidesz would have died if the Government of Hungary had listened to you because the virus was not selective. The virus doesn't choose. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It's not the pro-government voters, because the pro-government voters don't believe what you're asking, it's your voters who look up to you. Now, that's what you would've talked me out of this vaccine. [[Péter Jakab: Is there a Pfizer?]] Do you think this is the responsible political attitude? And given the attitude of the opposition, I think it's the unity that you're all in, but it's the doubt that's gonna take you all to your grave soon enough. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. Gergely Harvesto: Jesus Christ!]] because their oath is to act in the interests of Hungary [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And you are using this responsibility, this political position, not to support defence, but to bake your own political bake. [[James Peter: What are you threatening? There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] And it's not potatoes, it's political fries. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The Hungarians will never forget this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are responsible for everything! Will you do it?]]
u2021-04-07-24	István Simicskó, leader of the KDNP faction. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-07-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are living in a difficult time, many families lost, many are worried about their loved ones in the hospital, and the pandemic is woven through our everyday life. During difficult times, Easter's celebration may be more important and more important than usual, perhaps more people are looking for the true meaning of Easter and their real message: the resurrection of Christ, the defeat of death, brought the message of rebirth to all men. Ladies and gentlemen, Ady puts it this way in her beautifully beautiful poem, "The Beautiful Easter": "Oh, Spring, Oh, Easter," an ancient promulgator of people. During the third wave of a pandemic, this encouragement to overcome this deadly virus is especially important. We can achieve this victory by uniting together, relying on human knowledge, strengthening our faith, and acting with a will to act and, of course, by vaccination. We all know this, and we are pleased to note that the vaccination plan established and established by the Hungarian government did not stop during the holidays, and thanks to this 2.5 million Hungarian citizens received the vaccine; this is the second place in Europe, a huge achievement. Mr. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that we did nothing, the government did nothing. Well, these vaccines, these vaccines didn't come into the country on their own, they didn't walk in through the borders of Hungary themselves, but the Hungarian government ordered them in time, preventing many other European countries, and, yes, it was very right that they also ordered vaccine, Chinese and Russian vaccines from the East. We wouldn't be here now, many have already said, and the Prime Minister of State Orbán, before me, said that yes, many more people would have died if the Hungarian government hadn't done so. All life matters, but I think we all see and know, and so do the experts who claim that vaccination can bring victory against the virus, against the epidemic. In this spirit, the government and all our health workers are fighting and working, and a special thank you for the health care workers during Easter Day, the volunteers fought the whole time, worked the whole time, the people went away and got themselves vaccinated. This is a serious result, and it is such a serious result that we can hear and see every week, every day, the attitude, opinion and criticism of left-wing politicians; while they are being vaccinated themselves and others are being talked out of vaccinations. Ladies and gentlemen, On Easter, I have prepared a quote from St. Paul, and allow me to say this in the name of KDNP:, It is time to destroy all malice and all evil. I would particularly recommend this to those speakers who have spoken here from the left, threatening, shouting, making noise, in an unworthy way, even to the spirit of the place in an unworthy way and to the spirit of the situation. In such cases, it is necessary not to yell, not to lecture, not to accuse, not to threaten, but to help people, to help the government to do their job, and to stand up for health care workers. I would like to draw your attention to this, ladies and gentlemen, we are responsible for our country, for our fellow citizens, and we need help. I'm asking everyone who hasn't registered to register to have as many of you vaccinated as possible, since vaccination can bring victory. The key to winning can be vaccination against the plague. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-26	Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-04-07-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Here's an update, let me start with this, but before I get to the news, a few left-wing statements on the Russian vaccine: the Gyurcsány Party said that the Russian vaccine is a human experiment; András Fekete-Győr said that the vaccine coming from the East is unreliable; DK also said that it is harmful and dangerous that the Hungarian government is housed by the Russian dictator flattering the Russian vaccine by examining the Russian vaccine; Péter Jakab also said that the Russian vaccine is a human experiment. I would like to quote the recent news that arrived just a few minutes ago:. The press conference that was held just now is Prime Minister Markus Söder Bajoran. Markus Söder announced that 2.5 million doses of Sputnik vaccine have been pre-contractually contracted today and that a factory that would produce the Russian vaccine in Bavaria is being negotiated. This is the case, therefore, Mr House, Honourable Group Leader, after Slovakia and Austria Bavaria is the third, which follows us as a whole, the fourth, if we count our first place, who would like to buy, use and even manufacture the Russian vaccine. With special respect, I would like to draw the attention of left-wing politicians who no longer honor us with their attention. I would also like to refer back to what you rightly pointed out, that 2.5 million vaccinees give us the opportunity to start a gradual reboot, and this is also linked to the fact that we have Eastern vaccines. All vaccines are good, we welcome all vaccines, Pfizer, Moderna, all of them equally, but we cannot correct the mistakes in Brussels without Russian and Chinese vaccines. Hungarian grafting is currently more than 24 percent, around 24.2 percent, and the EU average is roughly half, 12.7 percent; one million fewer vaccinees would be vaccinated in Hungary today without Eastern vaccines. So far, 2.2 million Russian and Chinese vaccines have arrived in Hungary, 1.1 million Russian and 1.1 million Chinese, but the majority is still to come, 4.8 million more, and by the end, the Russian and Chinese vaccines will protect the lives of 3.5 million Hungarians. Madam Szabó Timea is wrong, let me refer back to her earlier speech when she says that even vaccinated people are not protected by the vaccine. That's not true. It protects the inoculated, and many others, as it protects others besides those who are vaccinated. I would also like to point out with respect, as we have often said, that the left is against vaccination. Now we have seen such a Hollywood B movie, a left-wing performance of such a poor quality, or rather a Hollywood ZS cinema, with the title of erasing the past, but the past cannot be erased, the past should be taken responsibility for the past, for those who have launched a petition, who have talked about human trials, must take responsibility for their anti-vaccination behaviour. [[14.10]] By the way, the presence of the left is exactly the same as his past, because a few days ago, Katalin Cseh, the politician of Momentum, because, if I understand correctly, Ferenc Gyurcsány is the big boss, the Momentum and the politician of Momentum, and then I did not want to offend Mr. James, his position is difficult to identify in the coordinate system. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So, even a few days ago, Katalin Czech said that he was not happy and that it was wrong to use a Russian and Chinese vaccine. That's what Momentum politician said a few days ago. Mr. James, since I mentioned it, as Balázs Orbán referred to it, he called the vaccine that 70 million or maybe more than 70 million people have received worldwide. And in closing, I would also like to point out that left party leaders have been vaccinated, and that they were able to immunize themselves is due to the Chinese and Russian vaccines. They were either vaccinated in Russia and China; they were given either another type of vaccine, but they could only receive another type of vaccine so quickly because of the Russian and Chinese vaccine in Hungary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The rate of vaccination is twice as fast as elsewhere in Europe. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-28	I give the floor to Lajos Kósa, on behalf of Fidesz, the last in the line of comments before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-07-29	Mr. President. Dear House, After all, the end of the forest in Burnane goes up to Dunsinane Castle. Even though the unscrupulousness of the protagonist, despite all the horrors of his wife, Macbeth will end up failing. True, in Shakespeare's history and in his wonderful interpretation of Lőrinc Szabó, we can see this, summarized, but we can see how the protagonist goes crazy, how the hero goes crazy about wanting power at all costs, how he goes crazy about kicking everything up, crossing every line, and yet the forest in Burnane goes up to Dunsinane's castle, the impossible will be fulfilled. At this time, as Easter, it is safe to say, because the order of the world is that good overcomes evil and love conquers evil. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: That's right!]] Now, when we're at the top of the third wave of the plague, you can see it more clearly than anyone else, the only way to overcome the epidemic is by vaccination. Anyone, whether out of ignorance, calculation or just because they demand it, talks about vaccination, wants to talk the Hungarians out of it, or simply want to dissuade them, is committing a crime against their own people, their own nation. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: Yes!]] What we have seen here is the realization of the policy that we have read from Péter Krekó or Tibor Attila Nagy, who advised us to advise the Left that the failure of the government can be ensured by dissuading the Hungarians in the vaccination, by speaking against vaccination, because this will be good for left-wing candidates as political capital, pointing out to the government that the government has not done everything. By the way, they used petitions, signatures, declarations, advertising to talk Hungarians out of vaccination, and the Hungarian electorate will forget about it anyway. There's been signs of that. We may recall that our fellow Member Arató on ATV regretted, not a slip of the tongue, that there were few dead people, and this, by the way, supports the government's defence measures. The good news is that the vaccination program is successful. Compared to the number of vaccines received, Hungary is the second most effective in the world with regard to vaccination. The Czech Republic is leading the field by 7.09, Hungary is the second with 8.06. By the way, countries such as Germany 24 percent could not inoculate 24 percent of all vaccinated vaccines. The Netherlands is 34%, Sweden is also. By the way, Hungary's performance in the European Union after Malta is the second in terms of vaccination, and it is also 11th in the world, as a country which, by the way, does not yet have its own domestic vaccine production. But there will be, because the government has decided to build a vaccine factory in Debrecen that is a real help in such and similar situations. The only option is to get the vaccine as good as possible. Two and a half million have already exceeded the number of vaccinated people in the country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much, everyone, for helping us defeat the virus. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-30	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I quote the statement made by DK's MEP on 21 November last year. The Democratic Coalition calls on the European Commission to prevent the Hungarian government from experimenting with the Russian vaccine on the Hungarians. For six months, the representatives of the European Parliament sent to Brussels on the left have been dealing with the usual significant style of the European Commission to reduce the number of vaccines that can be given in Hungary. The representative of the Left said that they would not work to ensure that joint procurement in Brussels is as effective as possible, and that Hungary will have as many vaccines as possible, but that it will work to ensure that Hungary has as few vaccines as possible. It does not call on the European Commission to understand why it has entered into a bad agreement, why Europe has the United States, the United Kingdom or Israel on the roadwards in the field of vaccines. He is not talking about this, he is not talking about why the European Union is more effective, he is not talking about giving Hungary more of the EU's stocks, he is going to be working to prevent Hungary from obtaining either Chinese or Russian vaccines. The left feels that he is in Brussels to prevent this through the European Commission. And we could list the quotes, László György Lukács:. Hungary is not the Russian lab, Szijjártó and Orbán stop experimenting with Russian vaccinations on Hungarians! We do not need to experiment with Russian vaccination for our own safety, we do not want to put the Hungarians at risk. Says the representative who, by the way, helped Hungarian doctors to get to Ireland and who knows how many places in the world. Márton Gyöngyösi, who wanted to list our fellow Members here, is talking about the fact that he has been experimenting with Russian and Chinese vaccines, so he spoke about the Hungarian vaccination program. András Fekete-Győr, President of the Momentum: The government started campaigning with the Sputnik vaccine with the Chinese, and people refuse to include it in their organization, and I understand them, and I wouldn't. So he said openly that no one should give themselves the Russian and Chinese vaccine. Zoltán Varga said about the Chinese vaccine: "This is obviously dangerous and irresponsible. Also László György Lukács:. Orbán seems to have second-class concerns about the safety of Chinese or Russian vaccines. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's how they campaigned against them. Co-president of LMP: Do not force the Chinese vaccine in Orban. As President of Jobbik, Péter James gave the vaccine expert the opinion that the Chinese outdated technique, who knows the origin of the vaccine, because he seems to know this better than the pharmaceutical authority. [[14.20]] András Fekete-Győr:, Do not take a Russian vaccine from the government, because it is a waste of money. András Fekete-Győr was refuted by his own brother when he said, as a doctor working in England, that the Russian vaccine was effective. It seems that it may be better to listen to a brother with a doctor's education. Anna Donáth: The Russian vaccine so far only produces question marks and doubts. And DK's petition made it clear that the Chinese vaccine should be banned. Also DK's Facebook campaign:. We must protect the Hungarians from Orbán's human experiment. Or when the DK mayors came out to the public, they said that we do not support the use of Chinese vaccine in our districts. Peter Jakab: "This is nothing more than a human experiment. Ferenc Gyurcsány about the Chinese and Russian vaccine: I do not want the Hungarian people to be there as guinea pigs in this experiment, said the leader of the left, that he does not want the Hungarian people to receive Chinese and Russian vaccines, because they believe that it is not to protect life and health, but to be an experiment. Zoltán Komáromi, the health policyr of the left:. I argue that any vaccination is better than the disease. Zoltán Varga, also from the left: The government is trying to inoculate the Hungarian population with untested, collected, perhaps falsified, Eastern vaccines. In addition, vaccines are called false here. All you've done for months is talk people out of administering vaccines. Unfortunately, it seems it was one of their own DK politicians who was convinced to reject the Chinese vaccine. It is possible that this has had a tragic result, honourable Members. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai's death! Shame on you. The president's ringing the bell.]] You should have been more responsible in the last few months. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Shame on you!]]
u2021-04-07-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. This also applies to yelling at people. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-04-07-33	Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; János Bencsik, independent; László Horváth, Fidesz, Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Anita Kőrösi Potocsáné, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK; László Varju, DK; Anett Bős, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Antal Csárdi, LMP; László Varju, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP; Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz; Félix Farkas, solo of Roma ethnicity. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Kárpát Z., Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz. On Friday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik.
u2021-04-07-34	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the office of State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the content of the transcript.
u2021-04-07-35	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 204. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that this mandate of Dr. Barnabas, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, was terminated with effect from 15 March 2021. Sincerely: János Áder
u2021-04-07-36	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of your voting machines' buttons and make sure it works. [[Attendance check: present 144, away 55.]] Thank you. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the appointed Economic Committee to: B/15394 on the operation of entities exercising ownership rights on behalf of the State in 2019, on the development of the stock of state assets, on the processes of government wealth management. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the motion by 108 votes to 37, with one abstention. Coming up next in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon H/15257 adopting a report on Hungarian military engagement Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the House to accept H/15257. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The resolution proposal was adopted by 145 votes to two, with no abstentions. Dear House, Now, at 2:27 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. We're taking a few seconds of technical break. I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quickly and quietly if they have any other work to do. [[It's a short break.]] Dear House, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. The congressman has the floor.
u2021-04-07-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Here under the aegis of the epidemic, agricultural affairs have gathered well, and I would like you to try to answer them honestly and correctly. Around 2010-15-16 more than 200,000 hectares of public land were privatised. I do not want to go into the details of this now in the absence of time, and we will not agree, because it is quite clear that this is a 180-degree turn in comparison to their earlier promises and their previous policies, since they promised that the state would play a significant role in property policy, and they have privatised these land compared to this. But there's still a few acres left, and we have some pretty disturbing information about that. What do you say, Secretary of State, that the remaining areas of state land are now rented by companies who are closely linked to you and, on the other hand, pay a third of the market price for these land? How correct, competitive, and competitively neutral do you think this attitude is to expect a market-based farmer to know the same performance as a farmer to whom the same quality of land is given for a third? I do not understand why they keep secrets in this area, because, for example, I consider similar contradictions to the acquisition of state land. A region, such as South Somogy, where an older Hungarian countryman offered the land to buy the land for the state, offered him a ridiculously low amount of money, for which they would be willing to buy this land from him, while the Hungarian state offered three times the usual price to a foreign farmer next door with the same golden crown value. [[14.30]] I suppose it's because a former secretary of state could have fired a bull worth 5 million forints in this hunting area. I feel a connection here, though. So you manage national wealth in this way. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Unbelievable!]] How do you view this attitude as fair and honest? Or, for example, in support policy, we should hear a few words about the promised and missed turn of events. How do you normally consider that 80 percent of agricultural subsidies in the country are bought by 10 percent of farmers? In other words, the Hungarian State is helping the majority of the subsidies, both by law and by property policy, to be carried out by the most able, the most wealthy, and those with the largest land. What do you think of this, Secretary of State? How do you account for your own conscience? What do you say to your voters? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Who would expect you to have a farmer-friendly policy in Angyány? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-07-38	Mr. Sándor Farkas has the floor.
u2021-04-07-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Only part of the questions you asked were in the written line of thought, but it is natural for me to try to respond to that. I have to say this very strongly, and perhaps also in the spirit of today: your constant doubts and accusations concerning agriculture, I would like to reject it very much, because over the last decade, the land is for farmers! The program was one of our most successful programs, where more than 30,000 people, 30,000 people, could acquire land from state lands. At the same time, I could say that compared to 2014 we have ten times the number of landowners compared to the pre-10 status. About 8,000 people have gained new land ownership over the previous few hundred privileged ones. At the same time, I have to say that the government has consistently set and marked land policy goals today, in which it gives farmers, owners and land users considerable help and tries not only to try, but also to do everything to exclude speculation and foreign investors from the sales of national land assets. At the same time, I have to say that the Parliament itself asked this question in its original writing, when closing the sales program, about HUF 270 billion of revenue from it was translated into tax reductions. In this context, I would like to ask the honourable Member for a thorough review of the National Earth Fund Act, as it has definitely achieved the objectives of buying land, eliminating undivided common land, indemnifying those with unpublished share ownership, developing irrigation infrastructure. As regards lease agreements, I must say that the Agricultural Ministry, together with the government, confirms its commitment to extend the land use potential of farmers, with a uniform set of rental fees to ensure competition neutrality, while also strengthening the agricultural positions of small and medium-sized estates. Honourable Congressman, I'll have one more minute to answer the two questions you've asked me. Thank you.
u2021-04-07-40	Mr. Secretary, you have one more minute. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-41	Excuse me, I'll tell you more.
u2021-04-07-42	Yes, you have four minutes.
u2021-04-07-43	Excuse me. [[Zoltán Balczó: That's instant!]] Pre-2010 applications were launched in both back doors and in back-closed areas, the sale of land that is now completely transparent and clean. I would like to note that we are currently talking about a uniform rate of 2500 HUF/golden crown, which is a land lease fee of 80 to 100 thousand HUF per hectare, which you are asking as a question. So there are uniform rates on the land market. The notion of secrecy on public land is simply incomprehensible in the light of the public, uniform technical tender system, and therefore, on the Internet site of the National Earth Management Centre, it complies with its obligations to disclose public data in the public interest on a continuous and complete basis, in accordance with legal requirements. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-44	In return, the congressman has the floor.
u2021-04-07-45	Secretary of State, perhaps I'd like to correct a slip of the tongue: land for the rich! A programme should have been said instead of farmers. [[Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] You are not arguing with me, Mr Secretary of State, the Constitutional Court has declared independent that 300 billion forints might be needed to be turned back into agriculture. And is this program transparent? Then we wouldn't be in a lawsuit, Mr. Secretary. The Mansion has our case because you refuse to release public information. Don't be ridiculous. How can you even talk about transparency in this case? ! Then we wouldn't have gotten this far. It would have been nice to hear how the corruption scandal across the Ministry is now, at least what the investigation allows. We would have been happy to hear about this or how much it cost the Hungarian taxpayers the Üzbég-Hungarian Potato Research Centre, while the seeding area of the potato fell to the tenth of its peak, so there would have been something to develop here, if nothing else, through the development of the Potato Research Centre at the University of Keszthely or through the support of irrigation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But we could talk about shoveling Mezőhegyes. That's what I'd like to hear, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-07-46	And we wanted to hear about you accepting the answer, but I've come to the conclusion that you're not. And if the Member does not accept the answer, the decision will take place today, in accordance with our agreed agenda. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, With the corona virus epidemic and the epidemic, the economic crisis has put many Hungarian families in a very difficult situation. And in the meantime, we see that the government politicians are stealing public money in an immeasurable way, and billions are going to go to very strange projects in Hungary. I would like to draw your attention to something quite strange, to which I have already submitted a written question: in Hungary, there has been a very drastic increase in the number of people's kitchens since 2010. I would like to begin by saying that we fully agree that if a government and a government at all times strives to feed the most needy to the extent that they provide those people with a meal once a day, whether they are retired, children or even families, so that they can eat cooked and warm food once a day. There's nothing wrong with that. The only thing we have seen for years is the government's communication, and allow me to quote from Bence Rétvári's reply on the written question:. The difference between the capacity mentioned by the representative and the average daily turnover suggests that, thanks to the government's social policy, citizens who need to use the public kitchen service are less than the capacity available. And here, Mr Secretary of State, the measures after 2010 serve to strengthen Hungarian families. Compared to 2010, the number of people with significant difficulties in spending higher than expected has decreased by millions, and inequality has also increased in Hungary. Compared to this, there were 44 people's kitchens in Hungary in 2010, we spent about half a billion forints on this purpose, then in 2018 the Orbán government spent 13 billion forints on the folk kitchen service. 494 folk kitchens operated in Hungary, in 2019 503. Surprisingly, while the number of people receiving social meals has increased from 146 thousand to 186 thousand in ten years, we have seen more than thirty times the increase in the folk kitchen in recent years. Mr. Secretary, which is why I have noticed this meal: Kaban, where I live, has just been established, the folk cuisine is being cooked at 800 doses a day. There's no need. They get this once-a-day meal with a home address card, a farm number; and Kabán 800 people. And trust me, it's not the ones that line up for a one-time meal that need food. In fact, they were recruited because the criterion was that if they could not provide the 800 doses, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then they won't get it. [[14.40]] Secretary of State, tell me what indicators are used to allocate these folk cuisine services and what criteria must be met. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-04-07-48	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-04-07-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is quite surprising that the left is asking the government to deconstruct the services opened and extended for those in need, why it gives tens of thousands of people every day the opportunity to eat. Of course, we remember when the socialists were in the government: they stopped the interest-supported loans for home creation, instead they chased the Hungarians into foreign exchange loans; they doubled and tripled the price of electricity and gas; they organized a hunger march under the leadership of Gábor Simon, while they had a hundred million bank account in their pockets; and as Zsuzsa Ferge said, in 2008, you were the only government that, despite the social crisis, did not cross a single match in order for something to happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. It seems to you that your goal is not to help people in need, but to keep them dependent on aid and to benefit politically. As their fellow politician Csaba Lackner said, anyone who doesn't earn 100 million forints a year in municipal politics is an idiot. You therefore consider the purpose of the policy to be different from helping those in need. This was also seen in their votes: last time they did not vote for an extension of the emergency on 22 February, they voted against sectoral wage subsidies, they voted against tax and contribution reductions, they voted against rent waivers, they voted against general health pay increases and the home renewal programme. Not to mention that they have not, and have not, supported, the maintenance of the credit moratorium or the extension of the period of family protection, Madam President. That's the picture of you attacking the folk kitchens. We sought that, in addition to minimal administration, as you have said, we should provide the farmhouse number in addition to the basic name data, and we had to sign it; obviously, in an epidemic situation, we do not ask for a signature, as it would increase the risk of the epidemic for those who are most at risk, for those who need it, to enter these people's kitchens and receive daily hot food. We believe that the support provided in nature is more targeted; if one receives lunch or dinner, it will certainly help to sustain his life. I'm not sure that the aid you're handing out in an uncertain way is so targeted. And not only in terms of the people's kitchens, but also in terms of social food, we have said that what you have provided is not enough. We have broadened the range of right holders so that as many as possible can have this. You spent 29 billion forints on this, this year's budget includes more than 80 billion forints to provide children with free or discounted meals for hundreds of thousands of children. Like we've given them textbooks for free, you've done it for money, for an annual increase. That is the difference, honourable Member, you are talking about helping the poor, we are acting, we are providing budgetary resources for this. You always started with the poorest when restrictions were implemented: you took a month's pension from pensioners, you took a month's wages from those employed by the state, and you reduced social support. On the other hand, we believe that everyone should be given the conditions of a decent life, and that we can best provide it with support in nature if we provide food for those in need or provide a free textbook package or something for families. I would ask you to reconsider your position and to support that everyone who needs it should be fed through the services of the People's Kitchen. Congresswoman, believe me, no one comes to a luncheon out of a pass. Let's support them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-07-50	The floor is once again for Congresswoman.
u2021-04-07-51	Mr. Secretary, I'm sure you need a 40-million-dollar SUV to stand there for a once-a-day meal every day, but allow me to do that. And the other, Mr. Secretary, you're lying. Let me quote your words. In terms of population as a whole, the proportion of people in severe material deprivation in Hungary has decreased by about two thirds more than the EU average. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] You wrote that down. Then what is the reason why the number of kitchens in Hungary has increased 30 times the number of guests? Then you're lying about something every day because you're not doing something... then you're lying about less needy, while the daily rations are drastically increasing. Secretary of State, there's no need-to-know investigation. These canteens were created by not examining whether the needy would receive this service or not by the needy. We do not want them to be the ones who are sorry, but we want those who are most in need of this care to be able to take advantage of it, and not everyone who comes to it, because that is how this service works in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who else would go there? Millionaires going to the People's Kitchen, really, do you think?]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't accept it.
u2021-04-07-52	Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. László Varju, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I give you the floor.
u2021-04-07-53	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Here, in the midst of their bashing battle against an epidemic threat, some things are forgotten. In fact, I would like to draw your attention to this, which is what my question is about, how do you really want and how do you use the available resources, because they are accountable in this respect. In terms of the fact that you do not say a word about how much money the European Union is helping and supporting the fight against epidemic risk, you will forget to talk about how this will help us out of the crisis. Of course, we know and you know that it is not the Union's fault that most people in Hungary die in proportion to the number of people in the world, or that the whole Union cannot help it, that Hungarian businesses have received the least support, and that the Hungarian families have received the least support from the Hungarian government. By the way, EU support also means that they could have used the amount of money they had not used before, from which they were likely to buy machines and even masks for hundreds of billions, but they did not help families and did not help businesses. It is billions of euros that Brussels will contribute to the next period here. A total of EUR 50 billion, HUF 17 000 billion, which you know for sure is less than the total budget budget for today's spending page for the whole year, and with this support we can plan the next years of the country. The plan must be submitted to you by 30 April and it must be stated what it will be used for. Over the past few weeks and months, we've been demanding that you put a plan on the table on this table, because it hasn't worked so far. So here we are, yelling snakes and frogs at the European Union that you are constantly scolding, while you are living on your money here in Hungary. But Hungarian citizens know little about what they are simply spending on, what they are spending on the source they are destined for. The Spanish wall facing the failures of crisis management, the propaganda of Fidesz is what we see here in Parliament today, it is not enough, and here you have to account for what you intend to use this resource for. Secretary of State, what are you up to? Report to the Hungarian people! Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply.
u2021-04-07-54	On behalf of the Prime Minister, Balázs Orbán, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with responsibility and competence will respond to the interpellation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-07-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'll try my best to accept my answer, but I'm afraid my efforts will be accompanied by failure, but I owe it to you. [[László Varju: Don't give up on him, Mr. Secretary.]] Indeed, there are various programmes in the economic context of the European Union. There is a programme called SURE, a EUR 100 billion loan, protection measures for jobs. Hungary has received a loan of EUR 500 million; this is not a gift money, but a preferential loan. There is a REACT-EU programme, with HUF 400 billion available to Hungary for economic development, health and other expenditure; this requires a modification of the. 14-20 programme, which is unfortunately not a simple process. The preliminary discussions have been carried out, and we are waiting for the Commission, so please, if you or your MEP have lobbying powers, help the Commission to approve the changes to the programmes so that Hungary can get these funds as soon as possible. From the solidarity fund, this is what you have been talking about, we have received EUR 40 million, which is an extremely high amount. Of course, it is dwarf compared to the resources used by the Hungarian budget to control the epidemic, but this amount is here. [[14.50]] There is also the 2021-27 cycle and the EU recovery fund. Indeed, a total of EUR 51.6 billion from the two programmes is the support that goes to Hungary. We also believe that this programme is crucial for the future of Hungary. Allow me and here comes the point with which you will probably not agree to draw attention to the fact that this is the programme that you were trying to prevent in December when the European Parliament and the European Council were negotiating on this issue; you were trying to prevent the related negotiations from succeeding and these resources being available to Hungary. Their MEPs have done everything in their power, and you have done everything in your power to keep these negotiations going and to make Hungary even less available. With reference to what? The political bot: the rule of law mechanism that Brussels wants to use in an interesting way only against right-wing governments with Christian Democratic inspiration and political philosophy. The good news is, however, that there is an opportunity for you to improve, because, in the context of these resources, we need to take a decision on so-called own resources to the parliaments of the Member States, which is also here in front of the Hungarian Parliament, so that you, as Members of Parliament, can decide whether, in the context of your own resources, the contribution to this package will be granted. I would like to ask you to support these programmes at least now. He missed the debate, which I regret to hear, because there was a debate here in the Hungarian Parliament not so long ago on the programmes. It was a political debate day... [[László Varju: What the opposition initiated!]] Undoubtedly, we are very happy, and we have held the political debate day, and we want to wait for as many of these initiatives as possible. Otherwise, the negotiations are also under way here, so at the moment, the programmes are still being developed. The consultation on this is ongoing with civil society organisations and other actors, despite the fact that your political allies, for example, claim the opposite in Budapest, City Hall or other settlements. So if we want to place ourselves on the same reality base, then now the false communication that the government is not consulting others about the preparation of these programmes, I would very much like to ask you to stop. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and support the Commission's adoption of these programmes as soon as possible, so that the funds arrive in Hungary as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-56	It's László Varju again.
u2021-04-07-57	Thank you very much. I'm warning you, Mr. Secretary, I can't accept your answer. There are many reasons for this because I find it a lie that there has been substantial consultation on the use of this source. We are basically talking about a Marshall plan of this magnitude and its impact on Hungary will be enormous, provided that you want to make good use of it. I believe that, since you hide how this is planned, what you really want to spend it on, and the political debate that has been held there at the initiative of the opposition is not to be written for your benefit, because, by the way, there is essentially only the opposition. And that doesn't mean that you put it on the nation's table, what you would otherwise want to use it for. You want to continue building the stadium, you want to continue the hunting exhibition? And what else do you want, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
u2021-04-07-58	Péter Ungár, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. On behalf of the Prime Minister, State Secretary of the Ministry for Innovation and Technology, János Schanda Tamás, will respond to the interpellation on the subject. I give you the floor.
u2021-04-07-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the corona virus epidemic, in addition to human lives, it is very important to talk about how many existences have ceased, how many businesses have been destroyed, and how many people have lost their jobs. There is no doubt that we are in a crisis in the world economy that you did not cause, which Hungary was not involved in because of your fault. At the same time, how much money you spend to mitigate the impact of this crisis is your sole responsibility. The fact is that there is so little support in Hungary today that there are a lot of jobs, there are a lot of entrepreneurs who have actually received no help from the state. It is possible to raise those who are self-employed... and do not speak here in reply only about the release of the burden of the cata, because specifically what assistance they have received, I would like to ask you this question. The other is the help that has been given, for example, to those working in the beauty industry. What help they have given to Hungarian people who have basically lost their jobs, their livelihoods, and who have had very little opportunity to reserve them in the past. I would like to raise two numbers, two figures that I would like to add to the statistics at the end. I think they'll recognize the source of all three, because all three come from your government. The first is that the government is, by the way, on the Ministry of Finance website, this figure has paid HUF 51 billion in wage support so far. Just to compare this 51 billion: sight sports received 289 billion, churches received 154 billion. And I wouldn't go on with that because I think that these comparisons are still sufficiently outrageous. If I go further to Eurostat data, which the Hungarian government also recognises as reporting: 60% of the workers in Croatia, 30 percent in Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Germany received some kind of additional wage. This number is in Hungary 2. [[With his fingers, he shows:]] Two! So it can be said that Croatia has a higher rate of tourism in the economy, so there is a higher rate of wage subsidies, it is okay, but this does not justify the difference between 60 and 2. Third: according to the famous liberal and serialist Hungarian Telegram Office, only 28 percent of Hungarian workers were not involved in the economy in any way, so who was involved in this crisis either partially or by reducing wages or losing their job and income. And according to the survey published at the Hungarian Telegram Office, 12 percent of people lost their jobs, and only 6 percent of them were able to find another job. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] All I have to ask is what you've done.
u2021-04-07-60	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2021-04-07-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If it were up to you, you wouldn't have gotten anything from the businesses in trouble. And you personally have a certificate that you joined the left-wing choir and wanted to take the subsidies away from Hungarian companies and Hungarian families. If it were up to you, there would be no support for firms in difficulty. Last spring, the Crown Virus Act was rejected, thus slowing down the defense, and in June it did not vote for transitional rules, including the maintenance of the credit moratorium, and in October it did not support the tightening of quarantine regulations. The left, therefore, still does not help the defence, because last time he voted against the extension of the emergency, which means that if it had been up to you, honourable Member, then not only the rules for protection would have been abolished at the end of February, but there would be no wage support and no credit moratorium. And this measure, honourable Member, protects 1.6 million retail customers and half a million businesses; temporarily, no repayments are payable after 42 percent of the total loan, or HUF 4300 billion. Honourable Congressman, You have pointed out a single form of support for your own purposes among the many possibilities, but also this number, allow me to make a substantial correction, since you did not talk about wage subsidies, but only about the sectoral wage support programme, and in this context, we can say today, and we have also told the media that you have applied for aid for more than 155 000 employees of 25 thousand companies, and that only HUF 62 billion has already arrived at the accounts of companies in difficulty due to the coronal virus epidemic. Honourable Congressman, In fact, it would be worth your personal attention to the fact that, in many cases, we have found that as soon as these subsidies arrived, Gergely Christmas, your mayor, your old-new friend as a vulture, struck down the businesses in distress, and in several cases gave them the industrialisation tax advance from their account, with the money that the government provided as a wage subsidy. [[15.00]] In addition, this was deducted by the government reducing the trade tax by half in order to support local businesses in their precarious situation. This facilitation, by the way, honourable Member, concerns some 800,000 businesses and meant savings of HUF 150 billion. Honourable Congressman, You deliberately forget that, in the context of the economic re-launch action plan, the government is helping businesses in difficulty and the re-launching of the economy: wage support, wage support for R &amp; D workers, which is still available, a number of investment support, growth promotion programmes, or even a programme to help young people to work. We can say, and we have already said, that the economic measures taken by the government have helped those affected, and today almost 1 million 660,000 Hungarians have been helped by these measures, which you have never supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-07-62	I'll ask Congressman, he'll take the answer.
u2021-04-07-63	I do not accept the four minutes of agitating propaganda that you've given me as an answer. The only data we managed to extract from it was the 62 billion that was spent on sectoral wage support, which is always interestingly related to the 154 billion that were spent on churches and the 289 billion that were spent on visual sports. The ratio is still pretty bad. I would like to point out one thing: he said very good things, but to the beauty business operator in Saturday, who received zero forints from the government in a situation where he did not lose his job because of himself, that is not an answer. This is not an answer for those whose existence has been ruined, and those who, despite opening up, will not return to tourism as it was, will not be able to live on what they have dedicated a life to. It's not an answer to these people, it's propaganda.
u2021-04-07-64	Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Property Management without a wallet. I give you the floor.
u2021-04-07-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Why do they want to shut down a key hospital during a devastating epidemic for the sake of Árpád Habony's friends and business partners? The title of the question would have been addressed, but Mr President did not make me read it. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) So the question is that when we are here in the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic, the second highest in the world is the death in Hungary, not in view of the city states, the government is late, taking weak, inadequate measures, and then it puts more than one shovel on it, such as when it takes 10 billion forints away from the Buda clinics, or now when it wants to shut down Szabolcs Street Hospital. So, in the middle of an epidemic, they want to evict a unique, great work hospital that was opened 132 years ago. Then Mór Wahrmann, who was the first Jewish Member of Parliament, said that the hospital should, above all, be a place of refuge for poor patients. Eight years ago, this hospital was renovated from hundreds of millions of forints in order to provide hundreds of elderly, sick and homeless people at the same time. Sixty-five excellent health workers, nurses, nurses and doctors do their work there day after day, and their work is responsible for the absence of an epidemic among homeless people in Budapest. They are the ones who provide care to people who would often have no place else to go, who would overload other health institutions when they are already fully stretched out in health care, and people who cannot be allowed home during recovery because they have nowhere to go. They want to shut down a hospital like this in order to replace it with the OGYÉI, the Institute of Pharmacy, who also has an amazing amount of extra work during the epidemic, and you think they're fit to get them out of their headquarters. And why is that? In order to finally make use of the valuable OGYÉI headquarters in the city centre, the investors close to Habony who bought it at a low price in a corrupt way. So, with all due respect, I would ask the Secretary of State that they still insist on acting according to the profits of the Oligarchs near Fidesz, hauling out the Institute of Pharmacy, shutting down this unique institution, this great hospital, or abandoning the plan, and finally leaning to a sober word, and at the request of Gergely Christmas, until they can offer a better building, a more suitable institution in exchange, stand aside from this insanity. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-04-07-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2021-04-07-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Thank you for your interpellation to give me the opportunity to point out, in part, factual matters and partly moral questions. The first is who bears greater responsibility for the fallen of society today and who bears greater responsibility for the homeless. The government considered the provision of homeless people an important task from the beginning. For comparison only: in 2010, this supply system managed by around 7.5 billion, representing more than 12 billion in 2020, i.e. one and a half times. The number of shelters has increased from 8400 to 12 300, which increases by an additional 1.5 thousand in winter. For those in need of long-term care, there is a home for about 200 rehab facilities and 456 homeless people. The Hungarian Maltese Charity Service and the Budapest Methodological Social Centre with the support of the EMMI HUF 110 million operate the first reception space. The Baptist Integration Center has received financial support. The Public Foundation for the Homeless puts out applications for programs to help and provide care for homeless people in between HUF 360 and 380 million each year. So far, the government has supported the housing of homeless people with HUF 1 billion and HUF 850 million. It provided more than 700 million forints for the development of other metropolitan and rural homeless institutions. In 2012 István Tarlós, the mayor of Szabolcs Street, opened the current institution as a capital institution in a building complex whose rehabilitation needs have been known for decades. In June 2020, almost a year earlier, the government informed the Mayor that the renovation of the building complex would include a building for the homeless hospital. In a large city of 23 districts and 15 of them under opposition leadership, operating at a total of 525 square kilometers, the Mayor did not find or seek a suitable building for this institution. It has launched a political attack on the government to cover its nine-month inaction and omission, against the government which, in addition, has negotiated with it several times, and has allowed it to act several times, with a deadline, as last amended until 30 June 2021. To sum up, the government has taken responsibility over the last few years and has done a lot for homeless people. The current mayor spoke a lot, and when he had to do nothing, he remained inactive. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] The Mayor did not, then or now, wish to act; he does not really care about the fate of the patients and employees of the homeless hospital; he only cares that you can say the one and a half sentences for which he said all this. It's not the first time we've experienced this. In important matters involving the capital, the Mayor did not act. I would ask my fellow Member and the public in this country to compare the actual help that is acting with the false Patros, with the hypocritical sentences with the hope of political gain. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[15.10]]
u2021-04-07-68	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I'm asking the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-69	Unfortunately, that reply to the Secretary of State was unworthy. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] This hospital, Szabolcs Street Hospital, is maintained and operated by the capital on a state property. If you thought it was so important to pull the soil out of the hospital during the outbreak, the least you could do is offer me a replacement. Yes, the capital city is not in a financial situation after you bled it out, and nearly HUF 100 billion was taken from them annually to buy a new property, and there is no suitable real estate in the existing real estate stock. So far, the state has provided the property for the operation of the hospital, and it would still be the State's responsibility. We don't want a few months' delay, we want the hospital not to be evicted or provided with a suitable replacement, because it is, as it has been before, the responsibility of the state. Don't hide from responsibility, don't pass on responsibility, just answer to him. I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, István Bajkai, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: the responsible municipality is the one who financed a lawyer with a troubled past from public money? It's an address. István Bajkai has the floor.
u2021-04-07-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In DK-led Erzsébetváros we learned that during a pandemic, filling the pockets of lefty buddies, criminals and their circles, such as the well-being of citizens and the support of district citizens and businesses, is a priority. A hundred million-dollar contract is being concluded, from which the citizens of Elizabeth will probably never see a penny again, as these funds are likely to disappear in the black cassava of Ferenc Gyurcsány and his mob party. For this reason, I would like to ask with respect what kind of municipality is one of the most important problems in the worst weeks of the epidemic, with a convicted lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, who is at the top of his criminal career. A bird of his pen, a man of his friend, says the saying. What could be the real function of Csaba Czeglédy, who, with his life-long career with criminals, has demonstrated how to put lawyer and legal expertise in the service of circumventing the law? Is Csaba Czeglédy filling DK's party fund with the money of the citizens of Elizabeth? Are you acting on various party orders while obtaining legal and financial secrets? What is a moral deep flight for the municipality is the real opportunity for the left to unscrupulously shovel money out of Elizabeth City. The Gyurcsány family's domestic lawyer and confidant, along with 22 of his associates, ran a criminal organization and is still one of DK's innermost circles. I wonder what plans he's making there. What future does this symbiosis lawyer intend for Hungary? In my opinion, DK is a community of criminals and extremists hungry for power and wealth. It is no coincidence that Erzsébetváros is today the preferred workplace of the convicted Csabac Czeglédy and the electricity thief Tamás Borka-Szász, and, as it turns out, even the 12th accused of the Czeglédy trial is working in the building of the Erzsébetváros municipality, where Czeglédy operates a law firm, an office manager accused of committing a criminal crime of fiscal fraud, particularly a material disadvantage, and of continuing to use a false private document. Have you ever, Mr. Secretary of State, ever had a responsible municipality talk to a lawyer with such a past? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Is it your responsible municipality that funds public money to a lawyer convicted of economic crimes and currently charged? This is outrageous, and a blow to the face of the idea of local government! [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you, and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Can we talk about responsibility in the case of a municipality whose head said one day that he would never tolerate anyone in or around the municipality stealing or committing lawlessness, and then the next day he claims that he did not conclude a contract with the previously convicted Czeglédy, but with his lawyer's office? Why, though, would this attitude be a stranger to a Member who, before the municipal elections, said that he would be unfit to occupy such a position and then took his seat without a care in the mayor's seat? But could we expect anything else from a politician who, even during an epidemic, lists churches, who considers white heterosexual men and women to be terrifying creations? According to his own declaration, Péter Niedermüller seeks to create a Hungary that sees enrichment and opportunities in migration. Looks like it's number seven. After the collapse of the DK Bitcoin mine in the district, DK representatives had to look for new options, for example, to move on to legal fees. Dear House, Ferenc Gyurcsány's party partner did not break up with left-wing traditions, and apparently continues to work to get the money of the people of Erzsébetváros to a good place, such as Csaba Czeglédy's law firm or one of the current NGO organizations of György Soros. It is a very interesting phenomenon that while a lawyer is usually employed to help comply with the law, in the DK-led municipalities such cases are contracted with the lawyer's office of the person who has committed crimes or is in criminal proceedings. But that clearly describes the attitude of left-wing leadership. The case of Tamás Tóth, who used Gyurcsány's street as a toilet in the days, in the company of the Kulcsár broker scandal, is a quite obvious example of the fact that the red octopus is still in operation, the liaisons are still present among them, on the other hand, the irrefutable evidence of left-wing primitiveism on the other hand. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the fact that Péter Niedermüller said that justice and moral principles apply to all, we can be sure that there are always exceptions on the left; this is confirmed by the autumn speech. In the last two years, the municipality has allocated more than HUF 90 million of the money of the Erzsébetváros taxpayers to Czeglédy, which is precisely the public money theft against which Ferenc Gyurcsány has recently protested fiercely. Don't get any illusions. If the former Prime Minister was really interested in stealing public money, he wouldn't be protecting Czeglédy. After all, as he wrote in his Facebook post at the end of February, only those who do not want to steal from my mother and others like her want to govern with us, because we will chase them to the entrance of the prison, including those who are now stealing. In the Sukoro case, you have already proven that you did not pursue him, but you have accompanied your own friends to the entrance of the prison, and you are also enthusiastically escorting Czeglédy to court negotiations. Does the case of Gyurcsány's prison lawyer testify to clear evidence of left-wing credibility or lack of credibility? Let's make a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-74	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. I will ask the Member to accept the reply of the Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much, I accept your answer. Indeed, as the Secretary of State pointed out in his speech, the fact that today, in 2021, here in this holy place, in the most sacred place of the legislation, we must say that there exists a party that belongs to the most inner circle of a person who, by his way of life, has demonstrated how to violate the laws, how to pursue a criminal life, how to make a party career, how to fly to a local government's so-called wealth, in good Hungarian terms, how to interpret the idea of local government at all. [[15.20]] They think it's about power, it's about wealth, it's about robbery, and in our understanding, the local government just means that it's about service and service for the people living there. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] service to our country. That's the most important difference between us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: the free local bus service in Hódmezővásárhely has been stopped. NER's luxury machine, however, continues to fly smoothly to Dubai. Do you think that's okay? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2021-04-07-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There have been times in history that political powers have shaped transport policy at their own convenience and at their own convenience, not according to the real interests and needs of the people. According to the anecdote, once in Russia, the Tsar became angry with the experts, who couldn't decide which way the St. Petersburg-Moscow railway was to go, and then, in his rage, he grabbed a ruler, drew a sudden line on the map, but his finger hung in it, so that a strange corner was formed on the part of which no one dared to account for him. However, we are asking the government to take action that we believe will go against the interests of the Hungarian people, when you build a completely insane project on Chinese credit for a thousand billion dollars, in the case of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, or the insolence in which the NER's luxury machine flies undisturbed and carries the great parasites of the system to Dubai or even the Maldives, while you are working with a large artificial mind to destroy the bus transport in Hódmezővásárhely. It happened that the city started this service at the beginning of March, which people loved very much, but the competent government office intervened. This service could otherwise have been used free of charge by those with a settlement card, which, according to the present position, was nothing since the whole company was suspended, even though the mayor made it clear that the company had the permits on which the company was suspended by reference to the operation of the company. What's this about? The mayor says that the bus licenses were in order, and that they do say that they are fit for public service, which was later withdrawn by the Fidesz authority, and its entry into force is highly debatable. The suspension of the operating licence was not only outrageous, but it was clearly a political order. The extremely popular, free-to-hour flight was increasingly tested by more and more people and gave enthusiastic confirmation; this was probably the reason why this party-state impossibility could have happened. The mayor believes that transport savings of HUF 54,000 will be deducted from those working people who are adversely affected, and there is also a question about what will happen to the 130 students who would have used these buses if they had reopened schools on 19 April, which we could not agree with, since we can see that the most people are now dying in proportion to our population due to the misguided crisis management. My question is, when will they finally stop making it impossible for the municipalities, political actors or businesses that refuse to submit to you and then do this to them? It's outrageous, it's unacceptable! I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2021-04-07-78	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-07-79	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Why aren't you writing your message on your side? You're a great teacher who has his own thoughts. Why do you have to quote someone who doesn't? And Andrea Varga-Damm said on your message board that she was always liking Peter James, giving out her message. As I understand it, the Congresswoman has asked that you have an independent idea, and your party president does not. Now my question to you is that you don't have your own thoughts here either, or you mean Péter Márki-Zay, and you're quoting the mayor. But before I get to that, my honourable fellow Member, let me at least correct the historical error. The railway, built by the finger of Tsar Miklós, was built arrow straight, and was rebuilt only after the Tsar's death, because the steam locomotives could not withstand the strong grip. Second, Queen Marie Antoinette's famous statement of encouragement for cake was also proven to be based on a misconception she described in her interpellation. The words attributed to him came from Rousseau's work on Confessions, who wanted to discredit the royal family as part of the anti-king propaganda after the revolution. There is a Rousseau quote, honourable Member: I think we should use this instead. But why are you and Mayor Peter Márki-Zay wrong on this matter? This service was not launched on 1 March, but between 1 January and 31 December 2017, there was already a road, public transport and bus transport service, which Volánbusz Zrt. His predecessor, South Lowland Transport Center, served me. In order to ensure a public service even after the service period expires, the municipality received a winning bid for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2023, with a budget or cost contribution of HUF 50 million per calendar year. That's true! For some reason, this contract has not been definitively concluded, but it is also true that, after the municipality had paid it all along, it has paid this fee for the past months, and therefore continued the relationship with a binding attitude. I would like to continue with the arguments on the outcome of the procedure, because a procedure was written out, i.e. in November of last year, to carry out the service from March 21st, so this service was already in place, only a new one was written out, so Péter Márki-Zay did not invent that now for free and that they would somehow support the Beaver Fairs, because there was no bus there so far. But let's see what this company looks like. It is hauntingly similar to BKV tender, where they were punished by the Public Procurement Decision Committee for HUF 120 million. Why? Because the winning company didn't have buses until then, he didn't pay rent, he won it with an incompetent company on his own terms. I don't know if the winner is Jovány Busz Kft. In this sense he did not meet the requirements, but it is clear that he did not have buses; it is clear that he brought buses into Hungary that were already scrapped hundreds of thousands of kilometres in Belgium and then in Poland. It is true that the Transport Authority made a mistake, but immediately indicated the error to the mayor or to the city, it was corrected and therefore not licensed; it is not licensed because it was tested in the wrong place, it is not licensed because they then brought these buses to a place in Pest County to be tested for such an authority permit. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] do not issue the examination site (The President bell rings.) So it had to be withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr. Mayor, If he were here. I take it that's what you're [[The president's ringing the bell.]] A great teacher should always quote someone who speaks the truth and tells you the truth. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-80	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[Zoltán Balczó: We ask for half a minute more!]]
u2021-04-07-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was talking about Anecdote, not for nothing, if you've been paying attention. Then let me tell you the facts. When this company was informed of their suspension, this message arrived at 6:47 p.m. from the government office, otherwise they work there until 16:00 p.m. And then a little more interesting, which sheds light on the reeking concept of the whole case, which is that six minutes later, on the local government-friendly news portal, an article about this was published, a ten-page professional paper was sent, a ten-page professional paper that appears to have been processed in six minutes. Therefore, there is great suspicion that it was all written in advance. You wanted to create a case against the mayor, against this company, even though you work cheaply and well to the satisfaction of the locals. That is why I cannot accept that answer. It would be nice to get off the local governments, politicians and companies that are facing you. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, DK and MSZP.]]
u2021-04-07-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the government do to reduce the pandemic in Hungary? It's an address. It is for Congressman István Hollik. [[15.30]]
u2021-04-07-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It has been more than a year since we received worrying news from China about the Crown Virus, the new type of Crown Virus. The Hungarian government reacted quickly and exemplary at that time, which led to a very low level of infection and death in the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic, while in many European countries health was at the limit of its performance or, unfortunately, it exceeded it in one or two countries. However, during the second wave of the epidemic, it became certain that the pandemic can only be controlled by government health measures, but can only be overcome by the vaccine. The Government of Hungary therefore quickly contacted all potential vaccine manufacturers and sought alternative solutions in order to achieve the greatest possible vaccination as soon as possible, as the government also felt that the purchase of vaccine was spoiled by Brussels and that we cannot expect enough vaccines from Brussels, which would be sufficient for short grafting. Therefore, the government has repeatedly stressed that in Hungary only a completely safe, non-complicated vaccine can be authorised and that the preparations will be fully tested. The purchase of the right vaccine is therefore not a political issue, but a health and professional issue, and that is why the government discussed in the East in order to provide the Hungarian people with a reliable and effective vaccine as quickly as possible. It's a shame that the left even made a policy out of this and started an anti-vaccination campaign to dissuade people about the Eastern vaccines, which certainly cost people lives, and these lives are on the left. The third wave of the coronal virus epidemic has proved to be stronger than before in Europe, because of the drastic increase in the number of patients, the government has maintained protection measures, and from today only a step-by-step opening is possible, but this is possible because the vaccination process has accelerated. On this basis, I would ask the Secretary of State what the government is doing to reduce the pandemic in Hungary, and the purchase of vaccines is successful and where we are and how the vaccination plan will continue to be implemented. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we look at where we stand and how we can stand, if the European Union had done at least the same work as the vaccine suppliers outside the EU, we can see how much further ahead we can go. If we look at, and if we look here, say, about a week ago at the percentage of EU purchases, then we can see that this is about 9 percent, so it is less than 10 percent, while the vaccine purchases outside the EU, which Hungary did itself, were already, a week ago, well above 30 percent, so it is below 10 percent, above 30 percent. If the joint EU vaccines ordered by negotiations which had already been launched much earlier had also arrived at the same pace as the separate, individually ordered Eastern vaccines ordered by Hungary, then the number of vaccines from EU procurement would not have been more than 1 million, but it would have to be 2.4 million more, with enough vaccines to inoculate 2.4 million people, because those outside the EU would be much, much faster. How much easier the situation in Hungary would be if the EU procurement were to move as fast as the EU supplies were to move as quickly as those outside the EU, because now there would be more than 2 million people to feel safe, but not so. We have been able to say in recent weeks that more Eastern deliveries have already come from joint deliveries in the EU because the European Union and Brussels have ruined this procurement. It seemed like a good idea to get the vaccines together, but it seems that the European Union has left this to the wrong people, and they have admitted it themselves. Mrs Von der Leyen said that the European Union was somewhat delayed in the process of authorising vaccines, and that it was too optimistic about mass production, and that perhaps we were too confident that what we ordered was actually being delivered on time, obviously, should have been subject to stricter conditions in the contract. But his predecessor also criticized his successor, Jean-Claude Juncker said that the EU's supply of vaccine was a very slow process, I think, and it was not in favour of full transparency. Hungary was therefore able to act more effectively, and it was also more effective in entrusting the health of Hungarian people not only to the Union. This is clearly a good decision now, just as it was a good decision, when we not only entrusted the security of the Hungarian people with immigration to the Union, or entrusted it not only to the Union to boost the economy, but also to stand on our own feet here, not to listen to the advisors of the Union and the IMF. The Hungarian left had full confidence in EU procurement. We have now brought dozens of quotes in which the government has been constantly attacked because not only has it imported vaccines into the country in EU procurement, but we have also brought Russian and Chinese vaccines after authorisation. If the Hungarian government had listened to the left, today there would be one million fewer people with antibodies, and one million fewer people would have been vaccinated. This would be the price of left-wing governance, one million less vaccinated in Hungary, and obviously this difference will only increase in the coming weeks, in the coming months, at a time when it counts every day, because the British mutant is spreading at a much higher rate than the previous coronal virus, and therefore there are a lot more numbers and proportions of people with serious consequences, so it is extremely important here that shipments of vaccine arrive quickly and in time. But we know that the left could not be expected in this case, even though the WHO has said that the vaccination campaign in Europe is unacceptable and, moreover, Hungary has been congratulated on the fact that it is indeed one of the most effective countries in the European Union, and even if we look at the countries of the world, Hungary has a very prominent position in view of grafting. The most important thing is vaccination, since in the long term only vaccination can protect Hungary and the Hungarian people from the coronal virus. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-86	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-04-07-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I accept the answer and thank you for the information. I think that all sober Hungarian people should be thanked to the government for not relying on Brussels, and also negotiated in the East in order to ensure that more safe vaccines can arrive in Hungary as soon as possible, and we should all thank those healthcare workers who have already protected the health of Hungarian people. The left should be ashamed, because he wanted to talk people out of these Eastern vaccines, and now they want to tell us the facial toaster lie and the Hungarian citizens that they were not anti-vaccination. But they were! Here is Congressman Varga, who was on ATV this morning, asking you a very simple question, supporting him at last, when Hungarian experts say that the Eastern vaccine is safe, supporting the Eastern vaccine, and to this very simple question they cannot yet answer, and they do not want to give a simple answer because they are anti-vaccination. Shame on you! Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the government do to fight cancer? Who is responsible for preparing the domestic anticancer plan? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-07-89	Thank you very much. Dear House, Two weeks ago, I dealt with this matter in the form of a question, and I was unable to get a satisfactory answer on behalf of the wallet. I would therefore like to present it in the form of an interpellation, because it is much longer and there is more opportunity to talk about this matter. In February 2020, the European Commission adopted a European anti-cancer plan, and in this plan, to be more precise, in its communication, it was asked Member States to prepare their own anti-cancer plan on the grounds that EUR 4 billion is the amount the European Union intends to use to finance this programme. [[15.40]] But this can only be used if the Member States draw up their own anticancer plans and, through them, finance it from the European Commission. It is well known that cancer diseases are unfortunately very common, and are the most common in addition to cardiovascular diseases, unfortunately our country is at the forefront of cancer in the European Union. Last year 2.7 million people in the European Union have been sick of cancer and more than 1.3 million have unfortunately died. Of course, where there is such a great loss, this has a very serious social impact and has a very serious economic impact, while, we also know, about 40 percent of cancer diseases could be prevented. That is why I asked Mr Secretary of State about this two weeks ago and I am asking now, because in this anticancer plan there are very important focuses, such as what kind of program a Member State is developing on prevention, on early detection, on diagnosis and treatment, and on quality of life improvement and rehabilitation. I would like to mention this mainly because the European Commission has also set specific requirements for each point. For example, in the context of prevention, it is said that within about a decade it is necessary to achieve that among citizens living in the Member States of the European Union, the number of smokers should be below 5% and that cancer caused by infections should be drastically controlled. Summa summarum: I ask who is responsible for preparing the anticancer plan at the Ministry, when it will be presented to the general public, and I ask you to involve civil society organisations. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, you have already received an answer to your question, but I would be happy to repeat it if you wish. In 2006 your government announced in the election campaign a national anticancer programme through the Minister of Health of Ferenc Gyurcsány to implement it, only the campaign has passed, and its implementation has not been implemented, no progress has been made, even though there have been raging announcements. Therefore, your concern that when a program is announced in their own time period and one step has not been taken is not credible, and then anyone should be called into account. Of course, then it was a visitation fee and a hospital allowance, and it was a reduction in medical and nursing wages. Hungary has had a national cancer control programme since 1993 and for the first time in Hungary, which was accepted by the WHO at international level. The Government adopted Hungary's five national health programmes from 2019 to 30, one of which is the national anticancer programme. This is the document from which we can start. The general objective of the anticancer programme is to implement, using international and domestic experience, a national programme of professional and social action, which is expected to reduce cancer mortality by at least 10 percent by 2030, despite the constantly rising incidence. That is, therefore, the purpose of this programme. The main elements I have already mentioned to you: prevention, screening and early detection of disease, anticancer treatments, rehabilitation, palliation and hospice, dissemination of knowledge at professional level and at social level, social communication, national oncological structure, and eighth, identification and monitoring of indicators. So that's the structure. The specific objectives are to improve the health of the population by increasing the efficiency and quality of the oncological care system, and to ensure a chance and territorial balance in access to health services at the appropriate level of care, and, thirdly, by improving diagnostic conditions with modern infrastructure development, and ensuring quality care by developing synergies between modern and efficient instruments, and, fourthly, increasing the number of healthy years. There are not only papers, government decisions, not only policy declarations, honourable Member, but also concrete government decisions, besides previous screening programmes, the creation of personal and infrastructural conditions for cervical cancer screening, the introduction of HPV vaccines. This voluntary, free-of-charge vaccination has now been extended in the last year for girls from the age of 12 in grade 7 of primary school. Also, the initiation of organized colon and rectum screenings, precisely because of the fact that there was unfortunately a high number of deaths. More than 260,000 people have already taken over the unit package, 88 percent have returned the sample, 229 thousand people, 87 percent of which were fortunately negative, but the results of the screening were 9.4 percent and 20 834 people. That's why the second study, the colonoscopy, followed. During the second stage, a precancerous condition was identified in 4600 people and malignant lesions were detected in 1349 patients based on histology. Here we can talk about thousands of people, for whom, precisely through the screening studies carried out in the anticancer program, we hope that this change has been found in time, and perhaps also their lives, because that is what all programs are about. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-07-92	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't accept the answer, Mr. Secretary. Here I asked the Hungarian equivalent of an anticancer plan adopted by the European Commission, which was decided in 2020. So in 2018 some document was created [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Not something!]] and a government decision was made public about this, yes, I understand that I am not stupid, of course, but here after 2020, Member States should have forwarded an anticancer plan to the European Union in order to enable the European Commission to finance the Member States' programmes in this new anticancer plan. From now on, yes, I understand that there have been screenings at some point, but I can only see that these are usually stuck. This programme includes, among other things, the need for interconnected cancer centres to ensure equal opportunities for access. From now on, I think there's plenty of work to be done, but unfortunately, there's no responsibility. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-94	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What about this year's graduation? Teachers and students in danger? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2021-04-07-95	Dear Secretary of State, If you don't mind, I'd like to focus on the substantive issues of the interpellation, and I'd like to leave some of the rhetorical elements in it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I'd love to.]] And I would ask that, if possible, Mr Secretary of State do so in his reply. I would like to ask you about matters that affect and interest thousands of students, parents and teachers in Hungary today. We've got our graduation exams ahead of us. From this point of view, the government has not been sure for a long time what exactly is going to happen in these graduation exams. We understood that they would like to hold the graduation exams, and we all want them to be safe and safe. We are also pleased that their position has been changed, and contrary to previous ministerial declarations, the government has decided that the vaccination of teachers is necessary before re-opening. I would like to register that it is a good thing that this has happened, and we think it is important, and we see that it is important that teachers will be given at least some sort of partial immunity in this regard when they re-open schools, and especially at graduation exams. I'm saying only partial, because it won't be that long, especially from the second shot, which is necessary for full immunity. There are minor errors in this, for example, I recommend that you be examined and improved, that a number of teachers, due to the protocols, were given the date for the second vaccination on the scheduled day of the written graduation exams. [[15.50]] I think it would be worth correcting this in consultation with the experts, because if we want them to be able to take the final exams again, then it is unfortunate that they receive the vaccine only then or afterwards. It would be worth examining if this is technically possible, and I do not want to take a position on this, that they cannot receive the second vaccination a few days earlier in order to be able to take part in the completion of the graduation exams. Last year, there were special rules for graduation exams. They remember that there were no oral exams, and there were many other restrictions on graduation exams. This year, those preparing for graduation do not know what special rules there are for this graduation exam, they do not know whether they will be oral or not, they do not know what protective measures will be taken, parents do not know that they can safely let students graduate, and what is very important is that they do not see the extra help they need to prepare for graduation in this situation. Don't forget that high school students have been home since November. It would be very important to allow intensive, small group preparation of graduates for exams with a variety of tools, including a special course. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Prior to the re-opening of the schools, the teachers are still being vaccinated: 78,000 people have been invited, and 66 685 of them have appeared. In the past, some 34,000 school workers, educators, had been vaccinated for other reasons, age and illness. This means that more than 100,000 educational workers are now vaccinated, and it will obviously take place in the next few days so that new teachers will be able to receive their vaccinations, and then education in schools will take place. We strive to ensure that, just like last year, graduation exams do not go away this year. Last year, the left also demanded that there should be no graduation, making 80,000 young people insecure about their future. It is fortunate that the country does not have a left-wing government, because these young people have now been able to move on to university, college, and move on in life. We also remember your words, Your Honour, when you were tuning against vaccines. I would like to quote you literally: "The 133 brave people are thinking of us here, and the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, please feel free to give yourself an uncontrolled Chinese vaccine, which is not authorised by the European Medicines Agency, if you have so much confidence in it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's how you tried to get not only teachers, but everyone else against vaccination. And in January this year, he demanded that teachers be vaccinated and that secondary schools reopen, honourable Member, and now I feel his concern about re-opening in your words, even though that is exactly what he proposed in January. And the extra vaccination of teachers, as you may have heard, is taking place and has already been done in a large proportion. You are talking about vaccination chaos when Hungarian vaccination is twice the European average. As you know, with body temperature measurements and other security measures, we have sought to avoid the development of focal points in schools, and when the epidemic spread, we first ordered digital work schedules or breaks in high schools and after that in all schools and kindergartens. In addition to body temperature measurement, there were several mass tests in educational institutions. This year, too, we strive to give the vaccines to teachers as soon as possible, to re-start education safely, and everyone can graduate. In recent months, it has been possible to prepare for graduation in schools as part of small group sessions; obviously, this has happened in many schools, where teachers have personally been able to help young people prepare for graduation. Obviously, the previous years were also about getting ready for graduation, but it is important to review the part of the curriculum regarding graduation. This could be done, the school provided a framework for this, and we also tried to provide every means in digital education to enable those who for some reason do not have their own tools at home to receive these tools so that they can prepare for graduation as much as possible. Last year, when you demanded that graduation be postponed, we saw that not only the future of 80,000 students was threatened, but the predictions that were related to the average were not real either, since last year's graduation result was 3.61, which was roughly equivalent to the average of the previous five years, and the number of repeats decreased by 40 percent. I also urge you to support the inoculation of teachers, to support the return to normal life as soon as possible through grafting. Do not upset people against vaccination, and we hope that, in addition to increased security measures, we will, of course, be able to keep this year's graduations the same way we managed to keep them last year. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We hope that both in the case of graduation and in the case of combating the epidemic, we will succeed again. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-98	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-99	Dear House, Unfortunately, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply because the Secretary of State has not answered the fundamental questions about the rules under which graduation will be completed this year. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: I told you!]] And the students, parents and schools should know that, and the special help they provide to prepare after months of students at home. I'm sorry, but there were schools where training worked well, and some where it didn't work well. It would be your job to help those who have not been properly prepared. At the same time, Mr Secretary of State has said in a dynamic way the untruths. Some of these: the opposition never said that there should be no graduation, not last year, we told them to postpone a month, but it could still have been kept in peace. That's what you're saying, and you're telling the truth, that we've called attention in January to the need to put out teachers. That's how much we're anti-vaccination. And we said then that they should be vaccinated with the vaccine authorised by the European Union; now you will be vaccinated with it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It's okay that they took our advice, the problem is that it's too late. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance. It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Innovation and Technology, László Palkovics, who is responsible for the subject, responds to the interpellation on behalf of Mr János Schanda. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-07-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The government likes to explain its success by misinterpreting data, but even more so to hide its failures, so it does with regard to employment. In recent weeks, Viktor Orbán has stated that he is only interested in the data that shows how many people are working in Hungary now, and he believes that 4.5 million people are working now, so that is okay. However, this figure is false in many ways: it does not show how many people are forced to suspend their businesses, it does not show how many people are working part-time, nor how many have been forced to go to a job that is not suitable for their qualifications, and they are bringing home much less money than before. Minister Varga said at a conference last October that the share of part-time work had increased spectacularly: while at the end of 2019 there were 700,000 people in part-time work, in August 2020 they had increased to 918 thousand, and, by the way, he also showed that in August 2020 the total number of employees had already fallen to 3.6 million. These figures are completely different from the data expressed by the HCSO and Viktor Orbán, that 4.5 million people have worked and are working now, and 230 thousand of them are part-time. Since it doesn't matter to the families that someone gets full-time or part-time wages, I asked the competent wallet how many people work part-time and why Viktor Orbán and Mihály Varga say otherwise. I received a strange answer, namely that few people work part-time in Hungary, and the viral crisis did not bring a lasting turn. This means that the government has introduced a new unit of measurement, and this is the one with few. [[16.00]] Compared to this, the representative survey of the Institute of Economic Research in February now confirms that due to the virus, the share of part-time employees has increased almost tenfold in one year. If the government and the Ministry are not so competent, no wonder crisis management isn't going well. Dear Secretary of State, Please answer my question, what is the reason for the difference between the numbers communicated by KSH and Viktor Orbán and the numbers presented by Mihály Varga, and finally tell me how many people are actually working part-time.
u2021-04-07-102	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation. [[Noise.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are coming in, to take their seats quietly, and the basic noise in the room is very high. Thank you for your understanding. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2021-04-07-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is difficult to navigate again on the left side, often with a hat, there is no cap, there is no case of cap. One left-wing opinion against the government's employment policy in the last decade was that the Hungarian labour market is not flexible enough and very few people work part-time in international comparison. Now, if I understand it correctly, the problem is that you're trying to make part-time employment look bad. It is regrettable, honourable Member, that you do not have a strong employment policy strategy and concept for the management of the epidemic in the labour market, and that you are expressing different points of view based on your interests at the moment. Right now, not just a few, but too many people work part-time, according to you. We can't be surprised at that, of course, because if we look at the last year, we have often seen where the problem is, where the problem is. The problem is, there aren't enough ventilators, and then there's too much. The problem with the left is that we don't open, and then why we don't close sooner. They say we shouldn't use the Eastern vaccine, because the West is the only thing good, and then they tell us they got themselves vaccinated. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As is known, the coronal virus epidemic has also redrawn labour market processes since spring 2020. During the first wave, players in many sectors had to temporarily suspend their activities, reorganize their production and services. Unfortunately, there have been and there are also Hungarian people whose jobs have been destroyed by the virus, much less than elsewhere in the world, but it may not be about the number, because we believe in it and say that if there is work, then there is everything. That's why we've been working on it, and that's why we've been working for the last year, so anyone who wants to work and support their family can do that. That is why we have undertaken and that is why we now undertake to create at least as many jobs as the virus will destroy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The economic protection action plan was an important measure, even if you do not remember or support it, to ensure part-time employment. Entrepreneurs employed their colleagues part-time, paid part-time wages for them, and the remaining part was paid by the government, honourable Member, which is why the number of part-time workers increased significantly during a period of last year, and some of the businesses themselves decided on part-time employment to deal with the virus crisis. As a result, there was a temporary increase in the summer months, but by the end of the year it was virtually restored to the level before the outbreak. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On average, 250,000 people worked part-time in the last year as a whole, representing only 5.7 percent. The annual average number of part-time employees increased by only 20,000 compared to the previous year, while government measures contributed to the overall improvement of the situation of more than 1 million 660 000 workers. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-104	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-105	No, thank you, I don't accept the answer. Minister of State, Mihály Varga is probably not your boss, but the Prime Minister, so you said the number communicated by the Prime Minister that it is true for part-time workers while Mihály Varga talked about 900 thousand part-time employees. There's a big difference, and you haven't answered why there's such a difference between the two. I would also like to tell you that it does not matter at all whether someone has to go part-time or volunteer for part-time work. You know very well that wages are completely different when a person is employed full-time or who may be forced to work for two, four, or six hours a day. Prices have risen tremendously in recent years, and it is hard for families to make a living, and many can't buy the right amount of food at the end of the month because they can't get enough food on the table. Secretary of State, a responsible wallet should know exactly what these answers are.
u2021-04-07-106	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken on this day, in accordance with our agreed agenda. Dear Parliament, In line with our adopted agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[It's happening. Present: 150; away: 49.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, I/15385. No response to interpellation was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 48 against and 1 abstention. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of MSZP, I/15674. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 104 votes in favour, 48 against and 1 abstention. László Varju, representative of DK, I/15664. No response to interpellation was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 106 votes in favour, 49 against and 1 abstention. Péter Ungár, representative of LMP, I/15656. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 106 votes in favour, 49 against and 1 abstention. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman what kind of vote she gave me. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai's plane didn't work. [[In response to Dr. Gurmai Zita:]] [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman what kind of vote she gave me. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai's plane didn't work. (Dr. Gurmai Zita's reply: ) Excuse me, you cannot hear it. (For signal: ) You did not cast a vote, please record. Thank you. [[16.10]] Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, I/15675. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote. On Dr. Gurmai Zita's mark:]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 107 votes in favour, 48 plus 1, with the vote of Ms Zita Gurmai, 49 votes against and one abstention. Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, I/15662. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament replied to the interpellation by 107 votes in favour, 51 against the vote I ask the congresswoman, her machine worked; [[For signal:]] Yes, so 51 votes against and 1 abstention accepted. Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of MSZP, I/15301. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 107 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Gergely Arató, representative of DK, I/15657. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 107 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. [[István Szilárd Németh reporting.]] Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of LMP, I/15661. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's response to the interpellation by 107 votes in favour, 51 votes against, with one abstention... before I give the final answer, I ask Mr.Szilárd Németh State Secretary...
u2021-04-07-107	[[No sound.]] Mr. President. Since the beginning of the votes, the name of State Secretary István Szabó has been mentioned, and my name is supposed to be on top of it. That's when I had a vote where I had a vote, and I hope they accepted it. The last three had my name on them, but I couldn't vote. I can't explain it any easier than that.
u2021-04-07-108	Thank you, Congressman. There's no signal on our way. The necessary correction will, of course, be taken into account. Dear Parliament, So I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the response to the interpellation by 107 plus 1, i.e. 108 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision. We will continue our work with immediate questions. I am ordering a two-minute technical break so that our fellow Members who do not wish to remain inside can quietly leave the Chamber. [[It's a short break.]] (In the notary seat, Dezső the Believer Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer. You don't have a voice, Congressman. [[György Szilágyi: Thank you, Mr President. We'll wait for Viktor Orbán.]] The congressman indicated that he would wait for Prime Minister at the next meeting. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-04-07-109	Thank you very much. I'll wait for Minister.
u2021-04-07-110	I would like to inform the Member that the Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "How long are they pursuing anti-rural policy? It's an address. Mr. Minister, because of his absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas has given him the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-04-07-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and for the opportunity, but I will wait for Minister.
u2021-04-07-112	I would like to inform the Member that the Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-04-07-113	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. I would like an answer from the Prime Minister.
u2021-04-07-114	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I'm asking you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.20]]
u2021-04-07-115	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In February, registered for vaccination over 60 years of age, they received a letter from the competent government office that said:. On the basis of the vaccination plan, all our countrymen over 60 years of age, who are registered, will receive the vaccination until Easter. That way, you'll be able to take that chance soon enough. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Easter's over, and let alone those over 60, but those over 70 years of age, months ago, didn't get the vaccine. In parentheses, I'm one of them. Yes, I know that the European Union has concluded bad contracts, so the expected volume of vaccine has not been received. Therefore, the government ordered Eastern vaccines; it was right and right. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: The first swallow!]] As a result, it can be achieved that there is a large percentage of society grafted in Hungary, which is not the only parameter for the reason for the larger opening, but is a very important result. At the same time, I have to add that the large numbers of young people, not at risk, have also been vaccinated, which is not a problem in itself, but the statistics say, for example, today: 311, who has passed away, are predominantly elderly and chronically ill. Orbán told us not by accident months ago that the order should cease on the basis of registration, but that it should take place on the basis of age. Well, that means, Mr. Secretary of State, that you have failed to comply with this vaccination plan. My question is not only on my own behalf, of course, but I would not say why they could not do so and what new promise they could make, which they will keep, so that the elderly citizens who have registered will have access to the vaccine. I'm looking forward to your reply. And all I'm asking is that if you quote from others, it's against vaccine, it's against Eastern vaccine. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] comment from Members, quote me if you can find one! Thank you.
u2021-04-07-116	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you have heard in the last few days at the press conferences and press releases of the operational tribe: the grafting of people over 65 is, of course, above 85 percent. Over the last few weeks, we have focused on the fact that our most exposed countrymen are the elderly, that we have accelerated their vaccinations, so that they can get as much of the vaccinations that you have actually referred to as limited. If vaccines purchased by the European Union had been obtained in the last few months in the same proportion as the vaccines purchased by Hungary on its own, there would be 2.4 million vaccines suitable for the vaccination of more people in this country. After all, while the share of commonly purchased and delivered vaccines is about 10 percent, the delivery rate for Eastern vaccines is more than 30 percent. Therefore, all European countries would be in a better position, including Hungary, if joint-acquired vaccines in the EU were to arrive at the same speed as the vaccines purchased by Hungary on its own. In these days, too, honourable Member, in addition to the extra vaccination of teachers, we are focusing on giving priority to older people, so that as many older people as possible have protection. It is clear that the coronal virus is primarily attacking older people, although the average age of those in hospitals is lower than before because of the British virus mutant, because here we can talk about a new virus, a more rapid, aggressive virus, which, unfortunately, brings much more people to the hospital; but if you look at the average age of the deceased, it is still very high up among older people. That is why it was important for the government to make it clear that the vaccination of older people should be accelerated, so the result is that we are at 85 percent in this circle. And for older people who had received a letter before, but had not registered for vaccination, a new circle of letters was sent, so that anyone who had not registered in a letter was not registered on the Internet would be given another opportunity to register, because their health and their lives were important, so the government accelerated the administration's vaccinations. If you look at the daily vaccinations of other countries, you can see that Hungary is at least twice as high as the EU, so the elderly in Hungary are safer than the elderly in Europe in general. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-118	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-119	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. You confirmed what I'm saying, what's written here, is that vaccination of the elderly is the most important thing. Here's the promise: for people over 60, they'll fix it by Easter, which I told you about. Müller Cecília said that 10 percent of people over 80 years of age were not vaccinated. So you confirm that yes, the elderly must give the vaccine. That's what I'm saying, but the question is why it didn't work. It's very good that young people are getting shots, but I hear they get them by the mass, by the hundreds of thousands, and they don't understand why they've been called in, when and when I'm talking about people who registered in advance, months ago, that's why they got this, and they didn't get organized. The GPs are just getting the full list, so they might be able to put him on the list. So the question is, where did he get stuck, what was the problem with not being able to follow their vaccination plan? Thank you.
u2021-04-07-120	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You were talking about vaccination chaos the weekend that 190,000 people were vaccinated. You are talking about an inefficient vaccination when I mentioned 85 percent of people over 65 have already been vaccinated; I do not know how many other EU countries you will find where the vaccination of older people is so advanced. This is due to the fact that Hungary has more vaccines than most EU countries, i.e. there must be more and better progress. After Malta, we are the second, honourable Member. Therefore, it is important that after the first vaccination of health workers, which occurred in the first round, after the vaccination of residents of social institutions and residents who are in the same community and who are obviously in a more unstable state of health, the government said that the most important thing is to protect the health and life of our elderly countrymen. And indeed, we have reached Easter, where 85 percent of registered elders have already been vaccinated, and we will be working to get the rest in the next few days. I think it's an important achievement. A Hungarian elderly person may feel more secure than in other countries of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-122	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "How is that?" It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-07-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Welcome to Parliament, Madam Secretary. I suggest that you come among us more often, and then you may be able to better follow up on the debates and suggestions that are being made here, because what you do in the media seems to be beyond the government's reach. What would I like to talk about? Last year Hungary was shaken by a serious scandal, and this was the Kaleta scandal when a Hungarian diplomat was caught collecting pedophile images and committing crimes related to it; unfortunately, it was not the Hungarian authorities, but foreign authorities. In fact, at that time, this man was smuggled home, rescued from his foreign service, and listened to by the government, the State Department, and the Fidesz politicians. Then, when the scandal broke out, because it turned out that there was an irresistibly mild judgment under the laws in force, then my fellow Member László Szakács and I presented a parliamentary resolution to the Parliament, in which we initiated and called on the Minister to do something, to tighten up the legislation so that it would not happen again. It is perhaps not surprising to the Minister that Fidesz voted off this draft resolution, even though at the word level there was a strong consensus that against pedophiles, against child abusers, we should act with the harshest rigor of the law. Máté Kocsis spoke about a working group in the press, the Prime Minister promised to amend 12 laws by September last year, which would have meant an amendment to a comprehensive Child Protection Act. This law didn't get in. We discussed a lot of things in this House, we had to discuss all sorts of crazy things, but the government didn't have time to act against pedophiles, and the court and the investigative bodies had the right means to do so. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] at the level of the law. So I'm asking the Minister why she sabotaged what the Prime Minister promised for September. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[16.30]]
u2021-04-07-124	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Judit Varga. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It is an honor to have waited three weeks to answer your question personally. Although such questions, which are....how is this? They will be put on the agenda with a title, perhaps "the God of God," such as the God of God! And if you would have honored me by giving me more detailed information, I might be able to answer your question in more detail. But let me put so much forward. [[He's taking off his mask.]] If you understand it better, I will also take off the fact that in Hungary the courts are independent, and according to the division of powers, the current Minister of Justice can be a maximum witness to justice. So it's not my place to judge the court. However, I would like to confirm that, of course, it is absolutely right to disturb society as a whole if any form of sexual exploitation of children arises. Lawmaking in the Ministry of Justice is ongoing, the enforcement of the existing strict criminal code is ongoing, and the review of the practice of the application of the law. For this purpose, I have also recently appointed Mr István Kónya, former Deputy President of the Curia, who will be responsible for this precisely in the Ministry. So we are constantly working and I have also appointed Minister for Family Protection Zsuzsa Wopera as Minister for former civil litigation in the whole topic of family protection. So we are working with all our might to ensure that Hungarian legislation is the highest level of protection for our children. However, let me add that this legislation cannot be hasty, since the penal code has a very fragile internal system, internal dogma. If we move a thread in a strong emotion, this hasty, incompetent approach can result in internal incoherences and disproportion, and therefore we must act not at political pressure, but at absolute level according to the expectations of the profession and society. So this work is being done, honourable Member. If further information is required, please ask the question in writing or even in a letter to me. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-07-126	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in return. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-127	Excuse me, Madam Secretary, I assumed you were prepared to fight against pedophiles. I was probably wrong, and that's what I found out. I thought it was a subject for a minister of justice to wake him up from his sleep at night, so he had to know the answer to how they were going to cut off the pedophiles. Matthew Kocsis sat not far from himself, who also wanted to sanction the idea of giving his head to pedophile thoughts or such things. It was you who promised immediate action that we were voted down because we also asked you to be your prime minister, who said that by September this comprehensive amendment of the law should be prepared, and I am surprised to hear that you have suddenly become so thoughtful about the legislation and refer to social expectations. Interestingly, in any other case, you don't care about social expectations, you don't care that you have to hurry, just point and only when you have to act against pedophile, mean bastards. Well, that's your job, Madam Secretary, not to teach me how to ask the question here in Parliament. That's popsucka, come into Parliament more often, then maybe you'll know the answer. Thank you very much. (Professor Dr. Vinnai takes his place) in the notary seat. )
u2021-04-07-128	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Madam Secretary. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-129	Honourable Congressman, Perhaps that is the reason why this style is unacceptable to me, so I think you can learn the right lessons from it. As I stress, this work is in progress, and let us not forget that we are in the middle of a pandemic, where the government is working day and night to save human lives and health. This is also the reason for this extraordinary result: in Europe, 25 percent of the population in Hungary is already grafted. It is also confirmed that, on the one hand, a very strict criminal code has been in force in Hungary since 2013 and that we have been working to tighten it continuously with respect for internal coherence, and such a regulation will be put in place. So wait a minute. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-07-130	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Anett Bősz, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Why are there no clear rules for the vaccination order? It's an address. Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-07-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Today, a colleague of mine from the opposition indicated to you that there was a disturbance in the order of the vaccination plan. In February, chronic patients under 60 years of age were started to be vaccinated against Covid-19. Unfortunately, however, this is also covered by the turmoil surrounding the management of the epidemic and the vaccination process. We do not know, because the citizens have not been informed of the chronic diseases in which the vaccination of our suffering compatriots under the age of 60 has been pre-classified by the plan. The first question of the consent statement that can be downloaded at the same time as the registration and must be given at the time of vaccination is whether the candidate has a chronic disease and, as an example, lists diabetes, high blood pressure, asthma, cardiovascular disease. You might rightly think, on this basis, that these are the chronic diseases with which a person under the age of 60 is ranked first. However, the National Health Insurance Fund Management website mentions only high blood pressure, diabetes and a certain type of heart disease and certain combinations of these in connection with the coronal virus vaccination. However, it does not discuss what is going on with patients with kidney disease and asthma. On the other hand, it addresses the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD, which the declaration does not ask about, and the symptoms of which may be confused with asthma, but have nothing to do with each other. To make the confusion complete, Mr Secretary of State, it has been found in practice that those who suffer from high blood pressure, both in the declaration and in the information provided by NEAK, but who do not suffer from any other chronic illness, do not enjoy any advantage. Therefore, I respectfully ask Mr State Secretary why they do not make clear rules and why they do not inform the stakeholders, that is, all citizens of our country. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-04-07-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me to offer you, honourable Member, three references from abroad and three from home. On the one hand, the Director-General of the WHO said that the Hungarian vaccination plan produces a very convincing result, unlike the performance of the European Union; you seem to be in a dispute with the Director-General of the WHO. Within the European Union, Hungary is the second most effective vaccination programme, since we have vaccinated our countrymen in the second largest proportion. This does not seem to convince you that the Hungarian vaccination programme is effective. According to the New York Times data, Hungary is the 11th most effective country in vaccination, but you seem to disagree with the WHO, the European Union's CDC and the New York Times article. But then I'll give you some examples at home: your new party president, since he transferred to DK, Ferenc Gyurcsány told us not to beat around the bush, went like a hoop, so he talked about his own vaccination. Szabó Timea:. the whole process went flat, wrote about its own vaccination. And even your mayor, Gergely Christmas, said that everything was well organized, everyone did their job. Thus, fellow politicians who have received vaccination and international statements examining vaccination practices in other countries show that this is going much faster, more smoothly and more efficiently in Hungary than in many other countries and the second most effective in the European Union, honourable Member. Exactly who has a disease, who can be given a vaccine, depending on age, disease, can be decided by their own doctor. The doctor knows exactly the different health conditions of the patient or the elderly who are not sick, or the characteristics of the vaccine. This is how the doctor can determine who should give the vaccine first and who should be put back. This is a health decision, and it is not for parliamentary politicians to decide, honourable Member, but for practitioners and general practitioners. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-07-134	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, we can agree that you didn't answer my question. Today I have referred back to a colleague from the opposition who has just told you that many elderly people do not understand why they have not yet taken place on the basis of the vaccination plan, because you have promised that they will be vaccinated by Easter. I also asked, Mr Secretary of State, why they are not available, in a detailed list, the chronic diseases that allow people under 60 to assume when they will be around, since this is of great interest to citizens. [[16.40]] So, Secretary of State, I do not have a problem with the organisations you listed, but what my opposition colleague has already indicated here is that many young people do not understand why he took place in the order of vaccination, when he does not have a chronic illness, and otherwise he is about the beginning of his 30s, while several of our countrymen over the age of 70 are still waiting for vaccination. So, is there a vaccination schedule or not? I think that's what needs to be answered, not that politicians decide what the right answer is. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I don't want to decide the right answer, I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-04-07-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: This is unbelievable!]]
u2021-04-07-137	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have told you several times today, but I would be happy to repeat to you that 85 percent of all registered older people aged over 65 who are about to be vaccinated have already been vaccinated. I do not think that there are many countries across Europe that have such a high rate, and we are, of course, striving for the last 15 percent to be vaccinated as soon as possible, and we are publishing new calls for more of the elderly to register, as they are in the greatest danger so that we can inoculate them as well. However, I can say for sure that if it were up to you, there would be a million fewer people in Hungary today, because you have been dealing with nothing else since November last year. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: That's right!]] rather than prevent the introduction and authorisation of Chinese vaccine and Russian vaccine in Hungary, and people were convinced, and they gave money and time not to ask for either Chinese or Russian vaccine. If it were up to you, the elderly, the young, the middle-aged, the men, the women, the chronic patients and the non-curricular patients, I'm sure they'd all be inoculated at a lower rate. Madam President, you have been pursuing an extremely irresponsible policy in recent months. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-138	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, gave him the right to reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding, or she asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-04-07-139	Thank you. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2021-04-07-140	I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister without a wallet for families an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Róbert Zsigó was entitled to reply. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-07-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Under the Government Decree of 6 March, educational institutions will be closed from 8 March, which will now be opened on 19 April. The aim of the provision was to control the epidemic, which, unfortunately, put workers with children in an impossible position. By staying home, they fell out of work, so many were forced to take unpaid leave, if, of course, they no longer had freedom. It's a 27-day period, which could be a huge cut for families. In any event, it would be necessary for parents as workers to establish a regulation allowing them to stay at home with the child, if necessary, in the event of institution closure, without creating an existential risk. Last spring, the same thing happened, many took all their days off, their vacations, and without state aid, the families were left alone. The above are exponentially true of single parents. In this case, it would be crucial that parents receive an allowance corresponding to their daily average income, since children under 12 years of age are generally not large enough to be alone for a longer period of time. Therefore, I would like to ask you how the government plans to compensate parents who are forced to stay home with their children for more than one month of institution closure. I ask this in particular for those who have been forced to take unpaid leave or those who have lost their jobs and, let's say, do not qualify for aid. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-142	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-07-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In contrast to what you said, the families were not left alone, the government did not abandon the Hungarian people or the Hungarian families, unlike before, before 2010, the left-wing governments at that time. The time frame for immediate questions is scarce to list everything, all the measures we have taken to help Hungarian families, let some of them be listed. We have introduced a credit moratorium to help families, otherwise 1.6 million families are currently using this option. Free internet access is available for those who participate in home digital education. But for example, helping families, parents, is also the fact that the Parliament has decided to increase the amount of the family to 100 percent of the mother's previous gross salary. As a result, mothers will receive a higher income in the six months following the birth of their child than their net income before. We also provide a number of support during the emergency and, in many cases, it will be simplified to use them. Under the Regulation extending the rights to certain health insurance and family benefits associated with the care, education and care of the child, the rights of children, children and children should continue to be regarded as existing. Under the general rules, entitlement to the law laid down is based on student status, in the case of foster parents, grandparents and children on a fair basis, as well as in the case of children. No special request shall be made to the client for the extension of the entitlement, as it shall be automatically established on its own initiative. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-144	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2021-04-07-145	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary, thank you very much for the reminder, and I am aware of these provisions. No one has said that these are bad, and this may be weird, but I think they're good, but this doesn't make up for the family's loss of income. A credit moratorium is a good thing, and any family policy measure that serves the interests of families is very welcome, but it does not replace the loss of income that arises when a parent is forced to stay at home with a child. I know that there are schools and schools that provide an opportunity for the child to be taken into custody by the parents, but thus the risk of infection is higher. Therefore, many have to choose to stay at home, especially when it comes to more children. So I ask you again, plan to compensate these parents for their loss of income. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-04-07-146	Thank you. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-07-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am willing to believe that you are speaking to him with good and helpful intentions, but I must say with due respect that your new allies did not set a good example of crisis management when they were in the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government period, before 2010, during those crises, they did not help parents and families, but they were restrictions. The home creation system was abolished, the tax relief of families with one and two children was taken, the duration of the child was reduced, the 13th month pension was taken from the elderly, and Ferenc Gyurcsány promised the young people that they could leave. This was the system of the then Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments to support families. On the other hand, we stand by families. The government's goal is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. In this crisis caused by a coronal virus epidemic, families can count on us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-148	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio and Szabó Timea, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, gave him the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-04-07-149	We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-04-07-150	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. [[16.50]] Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Due to the urgent absence of the Prime Minister, Mr Gergely Gulyás, the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks for the answer in person. [[Sándor Burány: Yes!]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-07-151	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, I am now addressing a question to you for the sake of two layers of which it is important to speak out in order to protect, including teachers and social workers. In the case of educators, you finally had a hard time accepting the demands of the profession and opposition politicians, preempting teachers in the vaccination order and starting vaccinations. In connection with them, however, they were exposed to a serious danger, namely that they would be sent back to their workplace, to the children, days after the first vaccination, in the exact emergency that they would have to receive the vaccine. We all know that within a few days of the first vaccination, only Viktor Orbán does not know that immunity is not yet in place, and in the opinion of the experts, according to the manufacturer's opinion, full immunity will only depend on what vaccine we are talking about, and it will occur weeks after the second vaccination. Yet you do not remain silent at the request of the profession, and open schools without the full protection of teachers at risk. In the second case, your failure is even more serious, because, in the case of social workers, in a controversial way, but in essence, a large part of social workers have been excluded from the possibility, to this day, that they may receive the first vaccination, for example, social workers working in the competence and responsibilities of the local government, who do not work in a closed institution. So my question to the government is when to pull off the consequences, when to finally protect teachers in substance, and when to preempt social workers in the order of vaccination. I look forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2021-04-07-152	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-04-07-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, To your question about teachers, I can say that we did not last and very hard, but first we took the request for the temporary closure of schools, for the transition to online education, and then the operational tribe decided that we would be able to inoculate teachers in this period as well. Since this was done with Pfizer vaccination, I would like to point out that without going into a virological dispute with the Member, since neither of us is a specialist in the field, that the US pharmaceutical authority has already published it in de-cember and confirmed this last week, and the Balliberal media has given him a surprisingly large space to see how good the American vaccine is, that the immunity is in a large part already after the first vaccination. This is also quite clear on the basis of mortality statistics. Therefore, the difference in immunity occurs not after the second vaccination, but after the first vaccination. This does not mean that it will not increase after the second vaccination, there is no dispute between us, but the protection will be effective after the first vaccination. Since we agreed within the walls of the House to protect life from stopping, the economy, as far as possible, should not lose its job, it is obviously also directly related to the school, so we said that two weeks after the first vaccination, in some cases almost three weeks after the first vaccination, there is protection that many people still work in Hungary, with much less protection. Therefore, we do not see a serious risk of restarting schools, and we even see that the continuity of life can be better ensured if schools open their doors on 19 April. Our hope, as a single answer to your second question, is that by the end of this month, we can inoculate more than four million people. So at the moment there are 3 million 950 000 registered, so I think that this is also the answer to everyone's turn. If the number of registrations increases, they'll still be there for May. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] But until the end of May, we can get everyone vaccinated. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-154	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. What you said in your answer to the first question, there are also debates between us, but you said almost nothing about vaccination of social workers, while I asked you about it. We know that social workers... and he said that people work on average jobs without vaccination and without the first vaccination, yes, but these are not ordinary jobs. So it's not an ordinary workplace where you have to meet hundreds of people in need from week to week, whether it's a food distribution or a personal assistance or an administration, like going to work with colleagues in an office. It's not the same thing. It's not the same situation, there's a lot more exposure for teachers and social workers. So I ask once again, just like the first time they resisted the vaccination of teachers, Minister Kasler said to wait for their turn, and I'm just saying that there was no mention that they couldn't wait to ask you to inoculate them, and then, okay, we'll order them, so there was a government resistance that had to be broken first. Why are they resisting the vaccination of social workers now? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-07-156	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-04-07-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, There was no resistance that had to be broken. There's a vaccination schedule. In the order of vaccination, it was the older, the oldest, who appeared to be the most at risk from the mortality data. When we were past them, and the majority of the oldest age groups were vaccinated, then the government decided to vaccinate the teachers. And to his second question, I answered that it is, of course, difficult to say at the moment what kind of risk is in which job it is, and in the territorial administration too, there are very many people who are dealing with matters right now. The representatives of the three historical churches came to the Minister of the Interior, who are burying, visiting hospitals, pastors, and for understandable reasons, they also require vaccination, and it is difficult to argue with the extraordinarily, but it is difficult even for a cashier working in a store, so he meets many. Therefore, there is a good solution: despite your opposition, we managed to obtain an extremely large number of Eastern vaccines, about one in two Eastern vaccines. Thanks to this, there is a good chance today that we will be able to release more than four million people by the end of this month, with about three weeks left of the month, with more than four million people, up to 4.4 million people, and currently 3 million 950 thousand registered. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] We hope this number is growing, but it is clear that in a few weeks everyone will be able to get vaccination in Hungary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-158	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Despite the legal restrictions, how can Ákos Hadházy continue his veterinary activities? It's an address. Due to the absence of the Minister, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Yes, thank you, Mr. President.]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-07-159	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, According to news published in the press, Ákos Hadházy violated the rules of conflict of interest regarding the status of Members of Parliament, as he continues his veterinary practice despite the fact that he has been suspending it since his mandate in 2018. Based on official information from the National Food Chain Safety Office, a pet passport was issued between 2020 and 10 March 2021 for 101 microchip-marked pets with the veterinary seal No 2762 of Ákos Hadházy. But the same seal appears on a medical report from Szekszárd Central Animal Hospital dated February 20, this year. I went to the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber to find out how Hadházy could carry out veterinary activities when he paused it according to his declaration of property. The Chamber informed me that the veterinarian who paused his practice should not use his chamber stamp or apply for a single European pet passport from the Chamber. In addition, the Chamber's Rules require that any person who, in the present case, is restricted to the pursuit of his work under the parliamentary law, must apply for the cessation of his practice. The question arises, however, of how Hadházy can use his veterinary seal. But what is even more worrying about this is how ethical it is that Hadházy, who paused his practice, despite the legal restrictions, pays for the issued pet passports. [[17.00]] On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State how Ákos Hadházy continues his veterinary activities despite the legal restrictions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Pál Völner, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2021-04-07-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly Law 17 clearly states that the mandate of representatives is incompatible with any other state, municipal or economic office or mandate. A Member may not, except in some cases, engage in other gainful activities and may not accept remuneration for his other activities except for the intellectual activities of scientific, educational, artistic, literary, editorial and legal protection and the activities of foster employment in the context of a legal relationship. Congressman Hadházy's veterinary practice is not one of the legal exceptions, although it is an art itself, as he has been trying to conceal this activity in the last few days. By the way, we know Mr Hadházy's relationship with regard to compliance with the provisions of the Act on Parliament, we should only recall his obscene, pub-style manifestations when he considered Parliament a circus. Nothing is sacred to the left, we remember the pious death video he shared during the pandemic when people died. According to his statement of assets, the Member pauses his veterinary practice, but, as the Member mentioned, according to the press reports, the use of the chamber's numbered stamp is on the market. It makes me think that while he himself is doing money-making activities, he can be relieved of the chamber membership fee while he is taking a break in his practice. We can also be sure that Hadházy-Vet Kft. As its owner, it can also take out appropriate dividends from its business, and in 2019 its net revenue exceeded HUF 39 million for luxury flying, so we know that it is here that the sky is above us, and that it is happy to film the film reports of others that have turned their personal life upside down. As a whole, it cannot engage in such activities. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-162	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai.
u2021-04-07-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ákos Hadházy is not arguing with Gyula Budai and not with Fidesz-KDNP in this case, but with the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber, of which Ákos Hadházy is a member. On 26 March 2021 I initiated an ethical procedure against Dr. Ákos Hadházy on the proposal of the president of the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber. Based on the response of the chairman of the Ethics Committee, the ethical process against Ákos Hadházy will be conducted by the Tolna County Veterinary Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-04-07-164	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, and with respect to my fellow Members.
u2021-04-07-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, we must add so much to his activity that, in addition to the fact that he may be practicing illegally, he takes the time to speak out against human vaccines, against Eastern vaccines; he will, of course, inoculate himself, like other prominents on the left. Where would the country be without the Eastern vaccines be able to ask the question? However, it is also obvious that if a Member so clearly violates the rules of conflict of interest of the Parliamentary Act, it may also be appropriate to initiate a procedure against him at the Committee on Exemptions, where the procedure for the existence of a conflict of interest can be conducted, the Member is willing to terminate it, and if he does not comply with it, it may have serious consequences, even the termination of the mandate of his representatives. Ákos Hadházy can't be above the law. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-166	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. The Minister asked Secretary Bence Rétvári to answer the question. I ask Congressman Lajos Rig to accept the identity of the responder.
u2021-04-07-167	I'll take it, thank you.
u2021-04-07-168	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-07-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to remind everyone here at the beginning of my speech that today is World Health Day. Although this world day is about prevention, prevention, we cannot go without saying and thank you for the sacrifice of health workers who have been fighting the virus in an epidemic for over a year now and have protected hundreds of people Our countryman's life. On the other hand, Mr Secretary of State, allow me to ask you a few comments and questions regarding the relaxation announced by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. The Prime Minister said that if we reach the two and a half million inoculations, we can relax. But what we've seen from today's data is that 311 people have been killed, which is not very promising, unfortunately. On the other hand, György Vejkey, Director General of Bethesda Children's Hospital, said that what we see all over the country is that in the third wave, the virus is basically spread faster, there are a lot more children, so there is no reason to reopen schools, at least not that I say it twice again at present: there are twice as many children in the hospital as at the previous stage of the epidemic. We can also see, and this is the strangest thing, that there is a date coincidence in terms of football-Eb decision points and the milestones of domestic relaxation. By 7 April, UEFA had to indicate to UEFA the data requested and the final decision on 19 April on how many viewers they could receive at the matches, and Monday 19th, the date on which schools could open during such an epidemic and against an inoculation that even epidemiological experts could not interpret. Calm us down, Mr. Secretary. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That the fads of a soccer-loving prime minister will not be the next victims.
u2021-04-07-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-04-07-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, respect and respect are owed to all health workers who work in hospitals, work on rennet points, work on weekends and work on Easter. Obviously, the government is trying to acknowledge this, as we have opened a budget of more than HUF 6 billion for those general practitioners who put out on weekends, so that we acknowledge that if they put out on weekends, it is important that vaccinations continue to take place on holiday days. Thank you, too, for volunteering to fight the corona virus [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]] Using his own paramedic medical degree to do this. So everyone should be thanked and respected, and our fellow politicians who, on the other hand, are attacking health workers on the grounds of Németh Athina or something else, are doing something unworthy. The government is trying to give financial recognition to health workers. Our ancestors know that a month's wages have been taken from all Hungarian nurses and all Hungarian doctors, and we are, in contrast, the greatest increase in medical wages for this generation or this period. In the case of nurses, we can talk about a multi-stage, 72-percent wage increase, and in the case of doctors we can also talk about a more than double increase in wages, which started in January this year, and will continue in the years to come, thus continuing to increase the wages of doctors. As far as opening is concerned, honourable Member, your group leader, Peter James, said on 15 February, during the opening period of the third wave, that it must be opened, or we will be closed for good. At the threshold of the third wave, your party leader demanded that the restrictions adopted last November be lifted by the government. Your fellow Member Tibor Nunkovics said a few days ago that it was time for a regulated opening, when the numbers increased from day to day. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Róbert Hondas, your groupmate (The President bells.) also a few days later:. It's time to move towards re-opening. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That would have been...
u2021-04-07-172	Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-173	...then it's irresponsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-07-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Rig Lajos in return.
u2021-04-07-175	Thank you very much. I've had very little response, Mr. Secretary. Because of what my fellow party members have said here, they were thinking of opening up to catering units or things like that. [[17.10]] Let us remember that after the first wave and before the second wave, sports events were allowed to be attended by viewers in a certain number and in compliance with the epidemiological rules. Usually these were the football matches where the number was set, but unfortunately, the epidemiological rules were not respected. When it knocked out, the second wave began, and the second wave had already entered the third wave, the result of which was the increase in the number of people infected daily and the daily dead. The next question now is how we have 2.5 million inoculated, but you know that 1 million of those 2.5 million inoculated are sure to have the protection to face this epidemic, and the 1.5 million, unfortunately, have not yet gone through the first vaccination, so you consider it justified that the schools open on 19 April. Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-04-07-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2021-04-07-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is even more shocking, as you explained the expression of the party president and his fellow Members. So on the threshold of the third wave, you were not talking about opening schools, you were talking about opening up restaurants and pubs by Jobbik politicians a few months ago, actually just a month or two ago. [[Lajos Rig: There are thousands of people involved in schools!]] when the British viral mutant entered the country and the numbers increased with much greater intensity than at the time of previous waves, honourable Member. We have sought to provide vaccination for as many people as possible. We encourage everyone to register for months and take on the vaccine, honourable Member. Unfortunately, there is no identity between the left and the right, as the left has been constantly trying to agitate against vaccines and registration over the past few years. Teachers will be inoculated immediately, precisely so that by the time the schools restart, all registered teachers will be able to be vaccinated. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Next is László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, who wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. In the absence of the Minister, Bence Rétvári will answer your question. Will you accept it? [[For signal:]] He'll take it, Congressman. You have the floor, Laszlo Szászfalvi.
u2021-04-07-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the coronal virus epidemic, Hungary is experiencing dramatic days, there are still many patients, and many of our countrymen are victims of the virus. This is why the Fidesz-KDNP government has previously decided to tighten restrictions and implement an excellent vaccination programme in Europe. In addition to the heroic struggle of our healthcare system, doctors and nurses, our vaccination program has not stopped even during the holidays, especially thanks to health care workers. Digital working arrangements outside the classroom have been in place in education since 8 March, and although teachers and the digital education system perform well under pressure, this situation clearly cannot trigger education based on personal presence. That is why the government decided to restore presence education in our educational institutions from 19 April. Our common goal is that the teaching should finally continue in person and that the parents of young children can go to work. This requires, on the one hand, the organisation of institutional conditions and, on the other hand, safe education, the main support of which is the extra vaccination of our teachers. With the government's decision, he complied with the request of teachers and their representative organisations. I note here that the Teachers' Union had previously considered that if workers in the sector were to be vaccinated after closing, the institutions could reopen with strict epidemiological standards. The union is now trying to coordinate teachers against the opening of schools on April 19th. Dear Secretary of State, After health care, social workers, registered elders, soldiers, police officers, there are more than 400 emergency vaccination facilities for teachers. I respectfully ask where this emergency vaccination is going. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-04-07-180	Thank you very much, Congressman Szászfalvi. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-04-07-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can see the complete irresponsibleness of the left, because, on the one hand, they were opposed to the purchase of Russian and Chinese vaccines, which would have meant that we would have been able to inoculate 1 million people less today, and, on the other hand, they were constantly demanding an opening at the threshold of the third wave. So Péter Jakab said that it should be opened, otherwise we will be closed for good, István Ujhelyi said that the government decision in force is too strict, we need to open it, we need to think about it, and András Fekete-Győr said that it is time to abolish the meaningless rules and start reopening Hungary. This was said when the British viral mutant began to spread in Hungary much faster than previous versions of the coronal virus. If we are talking about the vaccination of teachers, to which the Member has asked, we can say that 78,000 people have been invited in the last few days, of which 66 685 have appeared, an 85 percent appearance. Already before the extra vaccination of teachers, 34,000 school workers had already been vaccinated, so that means that more than 100,000 teachers and school workers had already been vaccinated. Therefore, in the next few days, you will be given the opportunity to receive the vaccine, and we will try to organize it, even on weekends, so that the date of your graduation does not conflict with the date of your vaccination. So the teachers are being vaccinated. This is also due to the fact that Hungary is the second fastest in terms of vaccinations within the European Union, and we have achieved an outstanding worldwide result in grafting. If we had listened to the left, if we had only injected vaccines from European joint procurement, then this result would be much lower, the health of much fewer Hungarians would be safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Szászfalvi.
u2021-04-07-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Clearly, education and education of future generations is one of our most responsible tasks, so I think that vaccination of teachers and vaccination of school workers is particularly important and, of course, supported by KDNP. And the government has now created the preconditions for this, because the vaccination of teachers has not only taken place during the week, but also during Easter, even during the holidays. Thank you again for the sacrifice of health care workers. We also know that even after the first vaccination, protection against the serious course of viral infection will increase significantly, giving the possibility of safe re-opening. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-184	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-07-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What we saw in the vaccinations of the residential social institutions, where the workers and caregivers were vaccinated after the health care workers, were the second round, that the first vaccination had been able to stop the epidemic, and since then, of course, the second vaccination was given, almost everyone who recorded it, and there, obviously, was a complete grip on the epidemic. So even the first vaccination in social institutions has been able to significantly stop the spread of the epidemic where caregivers and caregivers were locked up, and we can also talk about people in weakened health. In the second round, vaccination will take place for school workers registered on the government website between 24-29 March. We hope that this vaccine will go as smoothly as the vaccination of the previous days. I think Hungarian teachers can also see that they are among the first to achieve immunity in European terms. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-07-186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The time for immediate questions is over. We will move on to the next agenda. A general debate on the proposal for a European Citizens' Initiative Minority SafePack will follow up until closure. Submitted by the Committee on National Inclusion H/15586. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as a minority and EU agenda item by the Parliament. [[17.20]] First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Panczél, the president of the Committee on National Inclusion, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in 30 minutes' time.
u2021-04-07-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Welcome, Mr Secretary of State, to my fellow Members. In connection with the proposal for a resolution on the Minority SafePack initiative, the National Assembly Committee unanimously supported the Parliament's support, support and rejection of the European Commission's decision in the form of a proposal for a resolution. I would also like to thank the members of the committee present, because we have been able to bring this proposal for a resolution to the House with the same votes in favour. Dear House, Standing up for indigenous national minorities and national communities is not only a Hungarian issue, but a European issue, as it affects 50 million citizens of the European Union. The number of Hungarians affected in the divided parts of the country is about two and a half million, a fraction of this 50 million number, the 50 million European citizens who live their days as a national indigenous minority in the EU. To date, there has been no comprehensive EU legislation on minority protection. The rights of national minorities native to Europe are guaranteed to varying degrees in their homeland. While in some countries the language and culture of these communities are treated as a fact that strengthens the country, elsewhere they are interested in the quick integration, violent assimilation or emigration of minorities. In many cases, their language, traditions, culture, and symbols are the target of ridicule, and violence is not unprecedented. They are European citizens who need special protection. Dear House, In the European Union, the Lisbon Treaty sets out the possibilities and rules for citizens' initiatives. At the time, almost a decade ago, it was triumphantly announced that, as of 1 April 2012, a brand-new instrument has been available to EU citizens, allowing them to participate in shaping the European Union's policy. The Lisbon Treaty allows one million citizens to propose legislation. According to the rules, signatures must come from at least one quarter of the countries of the European Union, in this case at least seven countries and the number of Members of the European Parliament must be multiplied by 750, the required number of signatures from each country. This is 14 800 signatures for Hungary. I highlighted this because in the last two citizens' initiatives on the protection of minorities, this is part of the initiative of the current Szekler National Council on European regions and what we are talking about, the Minority SafePack, in both cases the number of signatories in Hungary was well over 500 thousand. To sum up, therefore, the legal environment provides an opportunity for citizens' initiatives in EU legislation. However, let us look at the facts. The FUEN, the Federative Union of European Nationalities and the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Romania, the DAHR launched the initiative in 2011, then the President of FUEN was Hans Heinrich Hansen, and the former and current president of RMDSZ was Hunor Kelemen, their joint initiative. In 2013, the European Commission even rejected the intention, so the initiators turned to the Court of Justice of the European Communities. In fact, the trial took place in 2014, and Slovakia and Romania joined the case alongside the European Commission, and Hungary joined the FUEN, the initiators. In April 2017, the time to register the case and the collection of signatures may have started after a favourable court ruling. After a year, on April 3, 18 the collection was closed, more than 1 million 100,000 signatures were collected, so the initiative became valid. On 15 October 2020, the organisers, with the lead of Mr Vincze Loránt, President of the European Parliament, were able to present the initiative at a public hearing and, on 14 December 2020, in the resolution of the plenary session of the European Parliament, supported the initiative by a three-quarter majority, calling on the European Commission to legislate. Then there last December, at the European Parliament's meeting, it was said that regional languages should be supported and protected, where other languages are spoken in addition to an official language. The protection of linguistic communities must respect fundamental rights. I would like to say once again that the European Parliament has supported the citizens' initiative with 524 yes, 57 no and 103 abstentions, i.e. a very large majority. It has also been said that indigenous national minorities are indeed threatened with strong assimilation and the loss of their language can mean a linguistic and cultural poverty in Europe. After all this, we were looking forward to the meeting of the European Commission, and on 15 January 2021 the European Commission decided, unfortunately not to start legislation at the 9 points in the European Initiative on the Protection of Minorities. In doing so, the European Commission has turned its back on over a million signatories and has turned its back on Europe's 50 million minority citizens. I would just like to highlight one member of the committee, Věra Jourová, who actually spoke nicely about the initiative. This is the fifth successful European Citizens' Initiative, which shows that European citizens want to make their voices heard and participate in the public debate on shaping EU policy. He talked about the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities as a fundamental value of the Union, and then rejected the initiative without proposing legislation. That, please, is cynicism. The European Commission has become uncredited. It also discredits the institution of the European citizens' initiative, as 60 of these citizens' initiatives have been launched in Europe, with 5 valid and effective signatures being collected so far and all five have been rejected. This could be a tool for European participatory democracy, but once again, five successful initiatives have been rejected. Can we talk about European values after the decision of the European Commission? Is there a community of values in the European Union, in the European Commission, or is there only one community of interests in the European Union? Because it works: free movement of goods, relief from customs, free movement of labour, new markets, cheap labour from Eastern and Central Europe, collecting and distributing money. But it also shows that the value of the European Commission doesn't matter, that man doesn't matter, and that it doesn't matter to the indigenous European citizen. [[17 .30]] However, in order to protect the interests of immigrant minorities widely, the European Commission often plays an active, proactive role and threatens to impose sanctions. Dear House, We can conclude that there are no rapid and spectacular successes in minority protection, especially if that minority is an indigenous nationality, but we must keep the matter on the agenda, respecting the initiativers, respecting those who collect signatures and respecting 50 million European citizens. There are two further mutually reinforcing paths ahead of the initiative: a legal and a political path. The legal path started: on 24 March, the initiators launched an annulment procedure against the decision of the European Commission at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. Hans Heinrich Hansen and Hunor Kelemen have asked for the annulment of the European Commission's decision on the grounds of legal deficiencies already mentioned: the Commission has failed to fulfil the legal obligation of a majority of the European Parliament in three quarters. They also highlight legal shortcomings, they refer to procedural errors: the Commission did not sufficiently justify rejection, and seven out of nine proposals did not provide any justification at all. The other way is by law the political path. We must keep the matter on the agenda with solidarity actions and decisions. Recently, the Presidents of the Chambers of Harghita, Kovasna and Maros County, as well as the Mayors of the Szeklerland cities, Marosvásárhely, Csíkszereda, Székelyudvarhely, Szováta, Barót, and I could list the other settlements in common opinion to improve the rejection decision by the European Commission and ask others to join the Carpathian Basin. But after I said that this was not just a Hungarian matter, he recently discussed the Minority SafePack case, its fate, the Commission's negative cynical behaviour in Frisland, the Government of the Åland Islands, the Parliament of South Tyrol, the Parliament of the regions of Veneto and Friuli-Venezia in Italy, the province of Valencia in Spain, protests and deals with rejection. Denmark's Minister for Foreign Affairs called and agreed with his German colleague, as the Bundestag had previously supported the Minority SafePack case in a consistent manner, and the Dutch House of Commons supported it. This European solidarity must be a force for the future. Dear House, Once again, I would like to thank those who collected the signatures in 17 and 18 spring. Thanks also to the signatories; thanks to those who organised all this. The Rákóczi Association was the government's strategic partner in the collection of signatures in Hungary, but it was collected by churches, the Chamber of Agriculture, civil society organisations, parties, enthusiastic activists. And we also need to speak to those enthusiastic activists who, in the spring of 18 years, visited houses, associations, friendly communities, and collected signatures, trusted them, and hoped that each signature would bring us closer to the solution and that legal protection would be established in Europe for indigenous minorities. They are now desperate, and they are experiencing this process as a failure. At the committee meeting, it was also considered a success or failure in the Minority SafePack case, and I am sorry to quote my fellow Member, Mr Balczó, who said that the signing collectors were successful, that Hungarians were also successful, and that the failure should be the European Commission's. Dear House, This is a European matter and I believe that national diversity is not a threat in Europe but a resource. The legal protection of indigenous minorities would bring security, social stability, economic development, prosperity and survival in the homeland. The initiative also strengthens Hungarians and strengthens Europe's national future. I ask for your support both in the debate and in the final vote. Let this matter also be a national minimum that we can agree on. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-07-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Péter Sztáray on András:]] Yeah. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Sztáray.
u2021-04-07-189	[[No sound.]] Mr President, Honourable Members,
u2021-04-07-190	The clip, I don't know if it's up.
u2021-04-07-191	Yeah.
u2021-04-07-192	Your card?
u2021-04-07-193	[[He's managing his microphone.]] Can you hear me now?
u2021-04-07-194	Perfect!
u2021-04-07-195	Yeah, it's working now. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to quote the slogan of the European Union:, In varietate concordia, i.e. unity in diversity. Under the founding Treaty, I quote: the Union is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. However, EU values have so far been unable to prevent cases of discrimination, restrictions on the rights of minorities, harmful effects on the language and culture of the minorities concerned. We know and understand that persons belonging to national minorities should be or should be protected primarily by the Member State in which they live, but the European Union is increasingly responsible for legislation, policies and activities affecting the lives of persons and communities belonging to national minorities who speak regional or minority languages. This conviction guided the Federation Union of European Nationalities when it called for action by the Union to protect national minorities as early as 2013. Its initiative was to regulate the issue also in the areas of language, education and culture, regional policy, the presence of minorities in the European Parliament, anti-discrimination, media regulation and support policy. However, the registration of the European initiative was rejected by the European Commission, as we know. It was argued that the proposed legislation does not fall within its legislative competence and should be implemented at Member State level. On 25 November 2017, however, the initiators challenged the negative decision at the Court of Justice of the European Union, and their efforts were crowned with success when, in its judgment of 3 February 2017, the EU court annulled the previous decision, and on 29 March 2017, the European Commission adopted a favourable decision on the partial inclusion of the European Citizens' Initiative. The success of the signature collection campaign is widely known and more than one million valid signatures have been collected in Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Spain and Italy until April 2018. In the light of the foregoing and the EU Court of Justice's position, the Commission's new rejection of the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative was even more startled. [[17.40]] According to the Communication of 14 January 2021, the Commission considers that the existing rules are sufficient to enable Member States to support projects promoting the rights and culture of persons belonging to national minorities. Although it continues to offer guidance to Member States in the event of difficulties in reconciling measures to support the rights and culture of persons belonging to national minorities with the state aid rules in force, the Commission considers that there is no need for further acts. However, more than one million European citizens have signed the EU citizens' initiative to regulate minority protection in the EU, and the European Parliament has voted by a large majority in favour of the resolution inviting the Commission to launch the legislative process that has taken effect in the initiative. All this has been ignored by the European Commission, with 1 123 422 European citizens and the European Parliament's resolution not counting. In this situation, the question arises of what democracy means in the European Union. Rather, we can talk about democracy deficit and the fact that the European Commission has lost credibility on this issue in the eyes of its citizens. It is difficult for the Union to be taken seriously in cases where it calls for a lack of democracy in some Member States, but it itself does not listen to the request of its citizens. The initiators also share the view that the Commission's decision is wrong in several respects. It discredits the institution of the European citizens' initiative, the only instrument of European participatory democracy, by rejecting legislation as early as the fifth successful initiative. Instead of getting closer to citizens, the EU is ignoring proposals from citizens in a series of ways. At the same time, the Commission also ignores the European Parliament's call for co-legislator, adopted by a three-quarter majority, and rejects legislation despite the fact that the majority of all the groups in the European Parliament supported the initiative. 10 percent of the population in the European Union are members of an indigenous national community. We believe that their interests and rights should be taken into account, not promises, but opportunities for enforcement. Ensuring and enforcing the rights of indigenous national minorities should be an integral part of democracy. In recent years, it is increasingly recognised that there is also a need to establish legal bases for national minority protection at EU level, which should be incorporated into their national legal systems on a mandatory basis by the Member States. In many cases, the EU tends to focus on new challenges for the EU, while the old ones, such as ethnic tensions and the rights of national minorities, are being put in the background. However, conflicts that have been ignored do not resolve themselves, can start at any time and could jeopardise the unity and stability of the Member States as well as of the EU. In the context of the above, we propose support for the proposal for a decision of the Committee on National Inclusion, and regional partners have already raised their voice against the Commission's decision. Dear House, Mr President, We also consider it important to stand up for foreign Hungarian communities and other indigenous national minorities in Europe by adopting a decision on the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative. We therefore support the adoption of the proposal for a decision by the Government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-07-196	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Péter Sztáray. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-04-07-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The institution of the European Citizens' Initiative, as has been said, was introduced in 2012 by the Lisbon Treaty. According to the new legal institution, in the case of the collection of one million signatures from at least seven Member States, the European Commission is obliged to launch a legislative process on the subject proposed by citizens, but before the collection of signatures, the proposal for a subject should go through the legal examination of the European Commission, which analyses the integration into EU competences. The Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative is the most important political project of the FUEN, the Federal Union of European Nations, initiated by the FUEN, the DAHR, the People's Party of South Tyrol and the Youth of European Nations. You're not alone. One million signatures for a diverse Europe! The motto document proposed to the EU eleven measures and legislation to protect and protect indigenous national and ethnic minorities in Europe in the following areas: regional and minority languages, culture and education, regional policy, public representation, equal treatment, audiovisual and other media, regional state aid. The minority proposal package was submitted by the initiating committee to the European Commission in 2013, which rejected it. This decision was challenged by the initiators in the EU court. During the course of the process, Hungary was on the side of minorities, and it was talkative, and Slovakia and Romania were on the side of the European Commission. The hearing took place on 16 September 2016. In its judgment, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg finally annulled the Commission's decision. The annulment was due to formal reasons because the ECJ did not sufficiently justify the rejection of the initiative and did not specify exactly the proposals that fall outside the competence of the EU. At the end of the deadline, at the beginning of April, the Commission finally accepted nine of the eleven proposals of Minority SafePack, which were covered by the one-year collection period, so the signatures could be collected until 2 April 2018. The collection of signatures officially started at the FUEN Congress held in Cluj-Napoca between 17 and 21 May 2017. The ceremony was hosted by the Bánffy Castle in Bonchida. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to border changes and historical events in the past, there are tens of millions of people living in the territory of the European Union, 50 million people living in their own homeland as citizens of an EU Member State, nearly two million Hungarians living in Romania, Slovakia, Croatia, Slovenia, Austria. People belonging to these Hungarian communities are members of the European Union, like a Frenchman from Paris or a German from Frankfurt or a Hungarian born in Budapest, but they do not live in the same way: they encounter obstacles every day when they want to use their mother tongue and national symbols when they want to pass on their culture to their children; often even the name of the settlement does not indicate that they exist, in many cases they do not have the right or the right to enforce a city name sign in Hungarian, if this is written property, even though their ancestors have lived, worked or built the settlement. The European Union is not only an economic community, but also a community of interests. This can't work in the long run if the people who make up for it don't feel safe. It is disappointing and outrageous that it still does not appear in the official European public address, the importance of protecting and supporting traditional European minorities in EU legislation. However, if I called on the general principles of the Union, such as diversity, diversity and non-discrimination, then the situation of national minorities could also be understood in a European perspective, because they are valuable, because they are at least bilingual citizens and knowers of two cultures. If they lived peacefully, protected, safe in their homeland, this extra knowledge and their energy could be used entirely to increase their community and their place of residence. They have enormous potential for the role of catalysts for the economic and cultural life of the region, and their role can be decisive for building relations between neighbouring states, for regional cooperation and cooperation. Dear House, Hungary raises its voice in defence of Hungarian minorities across the border whenever we know about the violations they face. However, the leaders of the country can rarely be better understood, acted on their perceived or real internal political interests, mostly to the detriment of Hungarian communities. Issues of concern can be taken to European forums, but as long as there is no uniform EU legislation to protect minorities, they are multi-faceted, multi-turned, in many cases windmill fights. Once again, the European Union cannot leave 50 million EU citizens unprotected, the EU cannot leave two million Hungarians without legal protection. The basic condition of European stability, as Mr Secretary of State stressed, is that peace in the Union should not be burdened with local tensions in the alliance facing increasing external challenges. The condition for European growth is that individual regions work well. Each region can function well if all European citizens are happy where they live. If there are internal conflicts in a region, it is an obstacle. [[17.50]] The last quarter of a century has shown that Member States cannot and do not want to treat their minorities as equal citizens. In many cases, it has been proven that national conflicts cannot be dealt with in an internal political perspective, because the stronger majority does not recognise that they are interested in settlement and that the temptation of nationalism is usually stronger in political space. Minority groups are targets of the systematically manipulated majority public opinion, constantly at the mercy of active political interests and regular sufferers of the local nationalist forces. There are no institutional brakes for attacks against them. Minority protection must be ensured at European level in order to create a clear legal situation. Clear guidelines should be drawn up for the Member States, not to fight for each Hungarian class, school or anthem, language use, not to remind the leaders of the neighbouring states of Budapest to respect the fundamental rights of Hungarian minorities. Dear House, Hungary strives to make sure that all Hungarians in its homeland thrive across borders from here and beyond. As long as a Szabadkai or a Hungarian secondary citizen in Cluj-Napoca feels like a second-class citizen in his own homeland, there is a great temptation to leave it or even to assimilate it. Hungary is standing next to Hungarians from abroad and is doing everything at international level to recognise minority rights. Today, a strong Hungary begins the next hundred years in a situation where the Hungarians once again found each other in the Carpathian Basin, the public-law unity was realized in the form of citizenship, and with the exception of an extremist party, Hungarian society now thinks in a nation, and does not wonder if a Hungarian from Szabadkai, Košice, Lendva, Osijek, Marosvásárhely, Beregszási speaks Hungarian. At the same time, it is important to stress that the hundred years of loneliness have ended, today we have allies, we have successes. The relations with Serbia have never been as good as they are today. We agree with Slovakia in the V4 framework on a great many issues, although there are issues to be resolved. The Serbian example proves that it is not up to the Hungarians that we do not have good relations with Ukraine today, for example. We sincerely hope that Romania and I can work things out, that the new government will offer us new opportunities, and that hasn't come to pass. Dear House, In addition to the bilateral settlement of relations, international institutions are important, and we can only achieve success if we Hungarians act together in front of international organisations. There is also a national consensus on the national minority protection initiative and we consider it important to preserve it. It does not serve unity if one of the parties outside Parliament or parliament on the left is arguing against Hungarians from abroad or against the interests of Hungarians from abroad for Romanian parties. An example of the national unity was the adoption of the final declaration of the 16th meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference on 10 November 2017. The document states that the member organisations are treating it as a priority to support as many people as possible the national minority protection initiative "Minority SafePack for a diverse Europe" in the mother country, in the Carpathian Basin and in the diaspora, aimed at protecting the rights of minority communities in the European Union. According to the closing declaration, member organisations welcome the contribution of the Rákóczi Association to the collection of signatures in Hungary. And indeed, everyone was involved in the action, although not equally and enthusiastically, but did the task. I would like to highlight the role of the Rákóczi Association in addition to our party, Fidesz, but I should like to thank the national minorities, churches, state companies such as Posta, farmers and farmers. The national cooperation has led to success, and let me also highlight the role of President Vincze Loránt FUEN, as well as the role of all Hungarians across borders. It is no coincidence that as from Hungary, Felvidék and Transylvania, several of the required signatures were received. Dear House, The political statement before us welcomes the national minority protection initiative, the successful collection of signatures and the support attitude of the European Parliament. At the same time, the declaration states that it is in conflict with democratic rules and is shocking that, contrary to the European Parliament's support resolution adopted by a large majority, the European Commission rejected the initiative in its entirety, thus ignoring not only the European Parliament's supportive opinion but also the will of European citizens. I also feel that the European Commission's decision has missed the historic opportunity to demonstrate by concrete measures its commitment to indigenous national minorities in Europe, to support and protect their culture, and has also sinned against the rules of democracy. It would be necessary for the European Union to finally address the rights of indigenous European minorities rather than the rights of irregular migrants. We find it intolerable that, while EU bureaucracy extends its powers without thinking, without asking European citizens, and by interfering with national sovereignty, it establishes rules on the protection of the rights of irregular migrants who are not EU nationals, it sweeps the initiative of more than one million national minorities to protect their own rights off the table without justification. The coordination and management of these issues at EU level belongs precisely to the Vice-President of the Commission responsible for values and transparency, who does not save time and energy if Hungary and its government are to be criticised. Does the European Commission and its President not think that Jourová's position on the matter, including Minority SafePack, is fundamentally detrimental to the EU as a whole and that, instead of representing European values and transparency, it is undermining citizens' trust in the EU? It is now time for a series of conferences to be launched on 9 May at the joint initiative of the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament to outline the future of the EU with the involvement of citizens and civil society organisations, at last, to be able to engage in an honest dialogue on the key issues that will determine Europe's future. One of these is undoubtedly the situation of indigenous minorities in Europe. The Commission should be called upon to seek out the legal solutions through which it can actually address the problems identified in the Minority SafePack, because otherwise, European citizens must conclude that the Commission does not play its role. Now we have to continue to fight with legal and political means. On the one hand, legal instruments must be used, and the Commission therefore requests that the Commission's decision be annulled at the Court of Justice of the European Union by the Committee of Initiators of the Minority SafePack. The initiating committee, led by Mr Hans Heinrich Hansen, former President of the FUEN and Mr Kelemen Hunor, President of the RMDSZ, brought the action on 24 March after the Commission announced on 15 January 2021, does not initiate legislation on nine points of the European Initiative on the Protection of Minorities. On the other hand, we also need to use political instruments, such as this declaration, a proposal for a resolution. Minority SafePack and the Szekler National Council are also ongoing initiatives on national regions, both of which are national strategic issues. It is our shared responsibility to go to the end. For the citizens' initiative launched by the Székely National Council to protect national regions, signature collection is still ongoing, and endurance can also produce results there. Attila Dabis, Balázs Izsák, László Pesty and others stand out as examples that even in hopeless situations it is worth fighting, seeking redress when it comes to community affairs and the protection of fundamental rights. Dear House, We must continue to fight, we must invest energy in bilateral relations, but we must also actively represent the issue of national minorities in international fora. Brussels must see that the will of 50 million European citizens cannot be swept under the rug. From May, Hungary will chair the Council of Europe, and this is also a good opportunity to put the issue of minorities at the centre of international attention, and we will do so, as the main priority of our Presidency is the protection of national minorities. Finally, the Fidesz Group supports this statement. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-07-198	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position in the 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó.
u2021-04-07-199	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, We use the English name of the citizens' initiative we are currently discussing so widely, Minority SafePack, that I would like to say the full Hungarian name for this one time: a rescue package for minorities One million signatures for European diversity. The aim of this is to regulate certain areas of national, ethnic and linguistic minority protection by legislation of the European Union, thus helping to preserve indigenous national minorities. If I hear the word Minority SafePack, then it means two things to me at the same time, and it was an honor that President Panczél referred to this: success and failure. [[18.00]] The success of the initiators, which was demonstrated by the successful collection of signatures after the long legal struggles, was won by the initiative, the initiators of the European Parliament's clear stand. And the fact that this did not happen in the end is, indeed, the failure is related to the European Commission, but I would put it another way: it is, in fact, a shame for them. Not their failure in the literal sense, because they did not attempt to put it in its legal form, but they rejected it in a cynical way, as we have heard before. And they have not only stated that they do not stand for the rights of indigenous national minorities, but they have also issued a certificate of what the European Citizens' Initiative itself is really worth. In the Lisbon Treaty, we heard that this is the opportunity to bring the institutions of the European Union really close to the population, and they themselves can achieve results through legislation. I will not repeat the story, Mr President has given a very detailed description of this whole lengthy procedure, which started in 2011, and should have ended up this year for good. Yes, it took a great deal of perseverance and struggle, and perhaps I should point out that when the European Commission rejected it in September 2013, it referred to the fact that neither the EU Treaty nor the EU's operating contract provides a legal basis for legislation on persons belonging to minorities. That's just not true. On the one hand, it is not true in itself, because the European Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, rejected this opinion and, on the other hand, indicated that there is a legal possibility to legislate, but it is not true in practice. If we look at the issue of migrant rights or the rights of the minority in sexual orientation, then the European Union, the European Commission, will find the effective enforcement of this, so in these cases it does not regard it as personal rights, but as collective rights, and it will find the possibility of enforcing it. The rights of indigenous national minorities are primarily feared by the European Commission and other institutions as well as by the devil of incense smoke. Let me look back on this issue in 2002-2003, when many people remember the European Constitutional Convention, we were still Members, back in 2002, and in this Convention ten countries before accession were given the opportunity to participate in this brainstorming, which would have established the Constitution of the European Union. Moreover, on this issue, the constitutional values of the government side were represented by József Szájer, as in the creation of the Hungarian Fundamental Law. Then he declared and we were pleased to hear that it could be achieved that in this constitution the collective rights of national minorities would be guaranteed. I also took the newspaper article to see what a great result it was. Then they changed, they said that the collective rights of minorities, the national rights, should not be put there, and everyone knows that the national minority has collective rights. Then, after the European Constitution failed, what was left? Rights of persons belonging to a minority. This must therefore be seen how the European Union, the European Commission, is involved in this. Let me just add so much to the process as to who was involved. On his part, I consider it understandable, Mr Barna Sigismund highlighted Fidesz as the party who contributed to this signature. In this case, I think it is better to mention all the parties who have actually contributed, as indicated in the Wikipedia article, so I am not arbitrary in saying: so the May Other Politics was among the signature collectors, we heard Fidesz, the Jobbik for Hungary Movement and the Together. So there were several parties who were actively involved in this. The European Parliament discussed the Minority SafePack initiative at its plenary session and, as we have heard, adopted a resolution with a three-quarters majority. Allow me to quote from this resolution:, it calls on the Commission to act in line with this support and to propose acts based on the EU Treaties, the European Citizens' Initiative Regulation and the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, points out that the initiative registered by the Commission calls for legislative proposals in nine areas. The point is, it calls for a legal act. This is quite rare in the case of the European Parliament when it calls on a co-operative EU organisation in such a specific way, and unfortunately, as we see how the European Commission has decided: it has practically rejected the initiative, it does not initiate an act in any of its elements. This will turn its back on indigenous national minorities and, of course, will also prove that the inclusion of EU citizens in legislation is a slogan without content. It is worth recalling that the court puts the essence of the institution of the European citizens' initiative at the heart of its reasoning, so that citizens have a real opportunity to participate in EU legislation even in the absence of legal knowledge. I think it is very justified that our preliminary Commission decision has been brought in here and we hope that it will become a large majority parliamentary decision. I believe that this is already of such weight that it could be sent to the European Commission, and I believe that the European Parliament could also react to the fact that, if it so strongly, so categorically and with such a majority, it stands in favour of legislation, and this is what the European Commission is looking at, I think it could express. Let me tell you so much, there was indeed the initiative of the Szekler National Council on national regions. That's why we shouldn't let them see that if it happens, we can't just leave it alone and move on politically and legally. That's why it's our duty. Otherwise, of course, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the adoption of the resolution. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-200	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. Next up is Congressman Brenner Koloman, and you have five minutes and 35 seconds.
u2021-04-07-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Allow me to have a personal thought. I, as President of the FUEN German working group, have been involved in the preparation of this citizens' initiative since 2011, and I was personally one of the first signatories to this citizens' initiative in the Castle of Bonchida. So when I can complement my fellow Member Balczó on behalf of this Jobbik faction, we are actually talking a little bit about my child, if I may say so. [[18.10]] I would like to refer a little more to the period of regime change, because when the Council of Europe's Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities was concluded and the Council of Europe set up a language charter before it, from there I date that sedentary EU citational development on national autochtonian minorities, because the EU has effectively outsourced this matter to the Council of Europe. And indeed, precisely because the ideology of some Member States, their national perception, is quite contrary to the case of national minorities, here, let us say, we can name France, for example, to mention a founding Member State. So what I see is that there is a great need for these citizens' initiatives. It is very important that we support these initiatives as widely as possible, such as in this resolution here at Parliament's level. I think that, indeed, in the European Union, we have already included in our 2019 European Parliament election programme the need for a re-buttoning of the coat within the European Union and, of course, the issue of national minorities should be included in this. My fellow Members who spoke before me made the reasons very clear. I would also like to add that, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I intend to submit a new motion, precisely, that the Council of Europe as an organisation is obviously ripe, as President Szili said at the meeting of the committee on nationality, to adapt both the language charter and the framework agreement a little to the new words of the new times, and, most importantly, that the Council of Europe must make the progress achieved so far available to the European Union, so to speak, by saying that there is something to be done here for the European Union. After all, it cannot be that these millions of citizens of the European Union are basically unable to obtain the rights they have invested in the treaties, as State Secretary Starray said. This cannot be the aim of the European Union! I think that all those in this Chamber who are involved in this debate are in agreement. And the resume, as President Panczél said, is that the only way we can move forward on the issue of ethnic minorities is by never giving up and constantly using all the existing tools. That is why it is a great pleasure for me that we hope that a national consensus and a national minimum will be achieved in this matter as well. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-07-202	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has indicated that two speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi.
u2021-04-07-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I think that we would be much more pleased to be sitting here in this House on this crucial issue, on the issue of the survival and future of foreign Hungarians and indigenous European national minority communities, and, in fact, we would not argue, but we would be pleased to note that positive progress has been made. We would have liked the European Commission to have taken a positive decision on this extremely important, vital issue, but unfortunately it did not. And I think that we not only take note of this with a bitter taste in the mouth, but perhaps the previous ones also show that we want to get past this, and instead of bitter taste, we want to do it together and do it together. However, I think that our first word should be the word of thanks, because we have to thank everyone who, in the previous years, either as an initiative or as an organizer or as a signature collector, or as an activist, and I do not want to list the organisations that have already said a lot of things so that this collection of signatures can even get to the table. And we also thank you for the perseverance, the perseverance that you have shown over the past few years, as we have had to overcome new obstacles in this process, while this could have been at the level of the European Union at all. After that, it was very shocking, and I think that for all of us, at least with the exception of a faction or a party, the total rejection of the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, With this decision, the European Commission has denied Europe's values. In a spectacular and repulsive way, he denied the spirit of European basic documents, the often prayer-like European slogan, we heard: unity in diversity. One of the most important European core values is the existence and survival of indigenous national minorities, which account for 10 percent of the EU's population. How is it possible for Brussels to have all kinds of minority issues, all other minorities matter, but not only the indigenous national minority? Secondly, with this shameful decision, the European Commission also, of course, refused to make a decision in the interests of Europe. Not only European values, but also the interests of Europe, because Europe, the European Union, has an interest in ensuring that national minority communities can live safely and remain safe, these communities and their members can preserve themselves and their identity, because this is the only way for a strong and secure Europe to remain. It would therefore be in the interest of the European Union to establish a single national minority protection system. Finally, my fellow Members, the European Commission, with this decision, has also struck its own citizens in the face; European citizens, who are referred to with great power in the Brussels bubble. And not only has the European Commission slapped its own citizens in the face, but it has done so with infinite cynicism and, unfortunately, double standards which are now common today. With this, the European Citizens' Initiative itself has also placed in parentheses permanently. A total of 75 initiatives have been registered so far, of which five have been successful, but there have been virtually no substantive consequences, apart from some pretense measures. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, we have to conclude that the European Commission, Brussels, is not interested in the opinion of its own citizens, its will, and the institution of the citizens' initiative has been fatally and utterly empty. What's next? I think that it is in no way necessary to give up this fight. It follows from these facts that we must continue to fight this fight with doubling force and multiplying efforts, and keep the matter on the agenda. With all possible means available, we must also promote the improvement, security and preservation of the protection of persons and communities belonging to indigenous national minorities in the fields of linguistic rights, education, culture, administrative participation and support. We all have a shared responsibility and responsibility in this. Stand up for our Hungarian communities abroad and the indigenous national communities in Europe! I think it's our moral duty. [[18.20]] In summary, thank you all for your great work and cooperation. The European Commission's decision is shameful and unacceptable, but encouraging and encouraging, we do not give up, we cannot give up this issue of national strategy to us. It's our shared responsibility, let's be united in this. In view of this, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party naturally supports the parliamentary resolution proposal and we ask everyone else to do so here in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-07-204	Thank you very much, Congressman Szászfalvi. The 15-minute time frame remains in 7 minutes and 24 seconds. I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász.
u2021-04-07-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would first of all like to thank the Committee on National Inclusion and the President for bringing this very important proposal for a resolution here. I am convinced that the 21st edition of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The people and nation who are able to fight for their national identity and national identity will be the winner of the century. I think I have heard very important policy contributions from my fellow Members here. Let me personally point out that I have been researching the protection of the rights of national minorities as a doctoral dissertation for many years, and this is a very, very complex area, and I think that this citizens' initiative would have been a historic moment for the European Commission that it postponed. . I would like to add that the essence of why this citizens' initiative, Minority SafePack, means so much: on the one hand, because every tenth European citizen from the 27 EU Member States belongs to a national minority. We have already talked about the fact that the Lisbon Treaty has included the EU legal system in a uniform framework, but, as my fellow Member Balczó has referred to this, there is a very big hiatus to the Lisbon Treaty, given the fact that the Treaty on European Union says that respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities is so much so. The other part of the Lisbon Treaty and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union did not raise the EU's competence to protect the rights of minorities, but there is a Member State, divided and exclusive EU competence. At the same time, the citizens' initiative gave the European Commission the option and exclusive right to decide to initiate the procedure for EU legislation. The other huge burden that the European Union itself is facing, and international lawyers who are searching for it are struggling with the fact that there is no concept of a minority. What does it mean to be a minority? There is no concept of a national minority. This makes it so difficult to interpret EU law, with which the Commission plays a fundamental role, because in many cases, when we talk about the rights of national and indigenous minorities, it explicitly takes this issue towards the rights of immigrants. This is why the Minority SafePack, the citizens' initiative launched by the Szeklers, is very important, because it is trying to replace this hiatus, which is lacking in the values and thinking of the Union. I think it is a huge step that the more than one million signatures have come together, that the 11 Member States have been able to join together and to make up for the kind of deficit and hiatus that makes interoperability between international organisations difficult. We are members of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Here I would like to highlight two important international conventions which define the protection of the rights of national minorities. One is the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the other is the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. And why it is difficult that there is no EU competence and why we are in such a situation: because these international documents are so-called soft tone, that a Member State has signed and ratified this treaty remains in the competence of the Member States to what extent it fulfils these international commitments. What is important about these citizens' initiatives and in which we can make progress with the European Union is very, very valuable, because the European Union itself is currently paying attention to the protection of the rights of national minorities at the moment when it decides whether or not to include a Member State in the European Union. There is no continuous and follow-up, so the Minority SafePack is important and we await the decision of the Court of Luxembourg on this. I think it is a very important answer, and thank you for allowing me to be a part of it, when in February the first deadline for the citizens' initiative for the national regions launched by the Szeklers was that in Spain I was able to negotiate at the Basque National Council and we were able to convince them and bring Spain to the seventh country. Since then, there have been several changes to the deadline, because we are in a very difficult situation because of Covid, but this was a message at the historic moment when we learned that the Minority SafePacket had been rejected by the European Court of Justice in the lead when we felt that, yes, we should now put another European Citizens' Initiative on the table. I also think it is very important to say that Hungary will take over the Presidency tasks of the Council of Europe in May, one of the priorities of which is the protection of the rights of national minorities. All the value we represent, and all that is represented by Article D of the Fundamental Law, that we are responsible for the fate of Hungarians living outside the border, will also be among our Presidency priorities. We will also draw attention to the fact that these citizens' initiatives, which we are at the forefront of in the European Union, have the task of preserving the cultural diversity of the European Union, and this concerns indigenous minorities, not immigrants' rights. And I think it is important to add one more thing: in recent times, international organisations have started to pursue a trend that is important to pay attention to. When it comes to minorities, in many cases they pass the word national minority, even though the international document itself contains it. We have a very big task in this, and I thank all of us and all of my fellow Members who have contributed to this, encouraged us to sign or signed these citizens' initiatives. This is our task: to preserve the rights of Europe's indigenous minorities. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-07-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-04-07-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a rare moment here in Parliament, when a broad consensus seems to emerge on a proposal. It is in substance that the Federative Union of European Nationalities launched an initiative in 2013, called the Minority SafePack, a European Citizens' Initiative for the Protection of Minorities. The European citizens' initiative is, by the way, an instrument which, I think, could be more effective, a very important instrument of the European Union; a very important instrument of the citizens of the European Union, a direct democratic instrument. This is why, and especially because of the aspect of our Hungarian countrymen, when this initiative came to light in 2013, it was immediately supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party and supported this proposal and this initiative. It is virtually visible, and it has been said, that it is an initiative that affects 10 percent of European citizens. Some 50 million European citizens are therefore involved in promoting the use of their mother tongue and mother tongue education as an indigenous minority in line with the initiative. This is what this initiative is all about, and it has indeed been very clear from the very first moments that the European Commission, in fact, is referring to the fact that these issues fall within the competence of the Member States, if I put it mildly, I say that it was not very active, if I were to be more serious, then I say that in many cases it has hindered the success of this endeavour. Let us not forget that more than two million of our fellow nations are affected by this issue, more than two million Hungarians who live in the territory of the citizens of the European Union and not in Hungary, but who, as an indigenous minority, have lived here in the Carpathian Basin for generations or for many centuries in the area where they were born and are often prevented from exercising these fundamental collective rights. [[18.30]] I myself was a supporter of this initiative, several of my fellow parties, Csaba Tabajdi, István Ujhelyi, whom I should now mention. István Ujhelyi himself made a statement as a Member of the European Parliament, when the European Commission finally, despite the European Parliament's support for the initiative, rejected its earlier findings. Even in difficult times, there has been a very serious cooperation behind the initiative, and 1.1 million signatures have been gathered, which, despite the difficulties, I consider to be a very serious success, and we would also like to thank everyone who participated in this initiative on behalf of the MSZP faction, whether supported by its signature or supported in any way by the public. I believe, and I believe, that it is also important for the European Union to support such matters based on principle, and it is important for the European Union to be a community of values, not just a community of interests, but also a community of serious values. So, in line with the immediate line-up in 2013, I can say on behalf of the MSZP and MSZP fractions that we are still in favour of the proposal and the initiative, and we are not understanding the European Commission's decision. We are also doing this because it also violates our fellow Hungarians, our national brothers and sisters, and I think it also violates and violates important European values. Therefore, the proposal for a resolution will be supported here in front of this House, and we ask all Members here in this House to do so. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-07-208	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varga. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group.
u2021-04-07-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to begin with, as I believe that this is an infinitely natural thing, Mr Varga, that there is consensus on such a matter, but let us remember that, despite the fact that, in this Chamber, most of the time, we are having knife-point debates, and I suspect that this will be the case tomorrow and the day after, there is now a complete consensus along a matter, and I think that this is a very serious value, that on this issue, at least on this issue, we can say that this is almost a complete consensus, and I trust that this will be the case in the vote, and that this will be seen. I can say that, in fact, I agree with all the thoughts of all my fellow Members who spoke before me. Obviously, the emphasis can be debated, but I think that there have been very, very important thoughts, and I would like to thank Mr Szászfalvi very much for the gesture that he started by thanking everyone who initiated this important European initiative and everyone who worked for it, who collected the signature, who signed it. I think it is important that I join in this, and I thank myself on behalf of the LMP fraction. Similarly, in the case of the repeatedly mentioned European citizens' initiative to develop national regions launched by the Szekler National Council, I would also like to thank everyone, as well as the initiators, for all those who have helped the initiators in the long-term legal procedure before the initiative and the collection of signatures, and all citizens throughout the European Union who have supported it by its signature. Indeed, I very much agree with Mr Szászfalvi on this, too, that these developments that we are discussing here, these shameful developments that we have seen with the European Commission, must encourage us to act. Many people expect these initiatives to succeed, which is obviously why they supported it, and it is our job to never give up this fight, and it is a task, and it is very important that Congressman Balczó referred to it, our task is to make it clear, understandable and audible in the political citadel of the European Union, so to speak, around the European Commission, that there is a complete consensus in this country, and very, many countries, many regions, many communities are joining this issue. So I also think that we need to put our responsibility under two very strong thoughts, that we need to act together, hard together, in this matter, so that we do not let these cases be swept off the table like this. It is an extremely important initiative, and I will not repeat the objectives of this Minority SafePack initiative. I think it was a huge success that we had the necessary number of signatures, there was plenty of support countries, and I say a little bit harder than the previous speaker, that the European Commission has made a self-righteous and absolutely politically motivated decision, and indeed, I believe that there could not have been a place to consider, that there was a clear political decision to reject legislation, which is a disgrace, and I am very confident that we will be able to bring the European Commission to a better understanding on this issue. Let it be clear that the protection of the rights of national, indigenous national minorities is linked to fundamental European values, and that the European Commission should be at the forefront of taking the initiative in this matter, as an initiative in the legislative process, and that it is trying to remedy the omission that has been going on for a very, very, very long time, which is visible. In the same way, we have seen a lot of ignominious expressions, say, against foreign Hungarians from various neighbouring countries, and it is particularly shocking that, for some reason, the political elite of the European Union, the European Commission, does not feel important to hear its voice, it does not feel important to speak to the states whose prominent politicians attack with a rather shameful, sometimes threatening tone, let us say, foreign Hungarians. It is certainly worth mentioning that this is a very, very serious omission. Thank you very much, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, for mentioning the European Citizens' Initiative launched by the Szekler National Council, because these two citizens' initiatives are not competing with each other, they must strengthen each other, and I think that we should also talk about this. So when we are talking about the success of the Minority SafePack and the shameful behaviour of the European Commission on the other hand, we need to remember this, and we need to make it clear now that, despite the fact that there is still about a month to go back from the collection of signatures to the initiative for the development of national regions, we must be prepared to act together very, very firmly on this issue, as soon as the collection of signatures is officially concluded here, and the submission arrives to the European Commission, together with the use of international relations for pro-government and opposition parties and factions, so that this shameful decision of the European Commission cannot be repeated. We have a very strong opinion that, in the case of Minority SafePack, it would have been an obligation for the European Commission to order legislation, it was absolutely right for the European Parliament, and we see that this also exists for the citizens' initiative for national regions. This initiative has taken a somewhat different approach, and the aim is to implement and implement a development policy instrument, so the European citizens' initiative for national regions is aimed at ensuring that such national regions do not suffer a disadvantage in the allocation and use of development resources. Obviously, we can imagine many things in this, but it is difficult to imagine how you can say that you have no legislative powers, because it is a matter of achieving development resources or of achieving gender through discriminatory procedures. So obviously, it's a little different, but I think we should be prepared to do everything we can here to prevent this outrage from happening again. In this matter, too, we must say about the issue of national regions, that it was already a huge success in itself, that the concept of national regions itself could be included in the European Union's legislation in this way, if possible in such a way as to say it in this light. So, in fact, we are in a situation where the problem has already been recognised, so European law has already been forced to acknowledge that this problem exists in this respect. In this way, too, this initiative is important, and I am very pleased that the initiative, the Szekler National Council, has been mentioned here several times. I would always like to emphasise this, and I would like to say that here and there in various reports interesting approaches, Székely intellectuals and other such approaches can be used, or even so that the irdala.hu citizens' initiative. No, we are talking about the European citizens' initiative launched by the Székely National Council, which, like the Minority SafePack, has indeed been able to demonstrate a very wide-ranging and genuine Hungarian national cooperation, and that is why it is particularly important to always mention the initiativeers, their persistent work, and always thank them for having taken this initiative. [[18.40]] So we really have a job to do, in both cases, by showing the widest possible cooperation in motherland politics, using our international relations to make these initiatives successful, because we have a joint task, and I think that, in all respects, our most important common task is to ensure the conditions for remaining in the country of birth, in terms of the whole Carpathian Basin. This is our most important task, this is a common national issue, and I am convinced, as opposition politician, that we must do everything we can to ensure that it is never questionable, and that this aspect and this shared task and responsibility should always be above party policy logic and party policy thinking, and I can say that, as the LMP parliamentary faction has so far been political in this way, this will continue to be the case, and we will always be the strongest in favour of matters. This was the case last year, when a resolution proposal that we initiated created an almost complete consensus in the Parliament in February of last year. I think it was one of those moments of joy and salvation. I would also like to speak very briefly about the unworthy situation in which this institution, the European Citizens' Initiative, has been put. This is where the colleagues of the Member said the numbers that practically none of the seventy-some initiatives had achieved the intention or the goal for which they had set out, and I think that one word can be said about this, that it is an insult, or that it is a shame. The criticism has been very, very many times that the European Union is making a serious mistake that the level of legislation and decision-making has come so far from European citizens themselves, the citizens of the European Union and their interests. There have been various initiatives, such as the setting up of the Committee of Regions as a body, which served precisely to try to carry forward the decision-making process as such a regional, local, quote-marked second chamber, but obviously the most important step could be a truly well-functioning, effective instrument that would strengthen participation, giving the citizens of the European Union the opportunity to exercise direct democracy so that they really feel that there is an opportunity, there is a means in their hands that they can specifically influence and control the decision-making of the European Union. The fact that this instrument has been grounded and emptied at this level by the practice of the European Commission and by its many, many years of practice, is certainly a shameful task for us, in addition to the important issue we are talking about here, is a very important task in itself, so that we can also fight to see that this instrument, the European Citizens' Initiative itself, a very, very important instrument for improving the quality and quality of democracy in Europe, actually undergoes a change that can really be an effective means for European citizens to really feel that the political elite of the European Union in such an ivory tower has not been completely removed. So I think that it is also our job, despite the fact that the Hungarian Parliament obviously has no formal room for manoeuvre in this, there is no possibility that it is important to send a message to Brussels with a similar political, common political declaration and message, and I say this in a good sense that we Hungarians, regardless of whether we are pro-government or opposition, require the European Commission to give respect to all the countries of the European Union, to some of its citizens, to take this instrument seriously, and indeed to see it as a means that European citizens can feel or feel that the European Union is theirs, and to have a say in the decision-making of the European Union. I very much hope that we will have the opportunity to express our political views on this issue together, but now, turning back, I think that we are talking about a very important initiative in itself, and I think it is obvious that the LMP faction will naturally support this initiative and all similar proposals and initiatives that support and facilitate this very, very important issue. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. This is the first independent Member who has applied, so I would like to give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who is talking about the pulpit. Thank you.
u2021-04-07-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing the proposal for a decision on the European Citizens' Initiative Minority SafePack. We are at the end of a very long legal process, and I hope that this process is not over here, it is a very serious effort, a lot of people have a lot of work to do in this initiative, and that is why the decision of the European Commission is extremely regrettable. I would like to thank all the initiativeers. I would like to thank everyone, politicians, civil society and organisations who have tried to collect signatures in the most extensive time-frame and in sufficient numbers. What are the main elements of the parliamentary decision proposal? The National Assembly confirms that it welcomes the European Citizens' Initiative "Minority SafePack," launched jointly by the Federal Union of European Nationalities and the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Romania; the National Assembly welcomes the fact that the initiators have collected more than 1.1 million valid statements of support up to the given deadline, the number of which reached the required thresholds in 11 Member States, so the initiative has succeeded; it expresses its joy that the Minority SafePack initiative was also discussed by the plenary session of the European Parliament, and has subsequently given its support in its resolution to the European Commission, calling for legislation; the Parliament is deeply shocked that, contrary to the resolution adopted by the European Parliament, in favour of the objectives of Minority SafePack, the European Commission rejected the initiative in its entirety, thus ignoring not only the supportive opinion of the European Parliament, but also the will of European citizens. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Commission has not recognised the future opportunities in this initiative, but has made a short-sighted decision, based on its own momentary political injury, which is a long-term stamp. How did the European Commission justify this rejection? He said that since 2013 a legislative process has been carried out in the European Union which has already met all the demands contained in the initiative and therefore did not create any legislative constraints for him. The European Commission has not taken into account the fundamental principle that politicians come and go, but the people remain. Nor is it understandable to me that it has not been recognised: because of which European politicians have made this petty decision, they will, in the long run, use this decision as a political virtue for themselves and campaign well against the European Community. The representatives of the European Commission have also forgotten that, within the European Union, not only some individuals, some ethnic groups, but also all nations are minorities, and without their legal constitutional guarantees, the dignity and values of all nations belonging to minorities can be violated without the granting of national integrity and identity. Here I join my fellow Member from KDNP in her presentation on the fact that we have not even reached the point in the European Union that a minority as a concept is actually defined. They have also forgotten in the European Commission that all the initiators and minorities who live in Europe have already had reservations about the bureaucratic system of the European Union and the European Commission, and that these reservations will be strengthened, and the voices that often mention it, and we can hear from European citizens from Portugal to Romania that very often seem to delegate politicians from more and more countries to the position leading up to European Community policy, with whom they can no longer do anything at home. I do not like these voices either, but such decisions will certainly lead to serious civil dissatisfaction and unobedience against the entire institutional system of the European Union. In Hungary, the rights and institutional system of national minorities have developed and function in an exemplary manner, regardless of the ideological embedded nature of governments. We could expect countries whose national minorities from their people live in our country to build up such an exemplary structure in their country, to have a political, scientific, educational and cultural institutional system that supports national minorities. My fellow Members have shown the history of this citizens' initiative very widely, and they have approached from a very broad legal and political aspect how and why the European Commission has made the wrong decision. And it is very rare that we have the opportunity in this House to have a type of debate on the issue of minorities, when one might be able to afford to bring the issue of minorities to the House from a slightly different perspective and from another aspect as a political issue, so if my fellow Members would allow me, I would like to say a few thoughts about this. [[18.50]] While the issue of the rights of minorities is already the subject of this proposal for a resolution, I would like to use the opportunity to put Hungary in a little focus on the issue of minority and majority. Democracy does not mean that the majority prevails over the minority, nor does it mean that a minority can acquire power, whether political, social, cultural or economic. If something like this were to happen, the principle of democracy would be violated, and this should be called quite different. Another problem is that when a minority or a majority group dominates or groups dominates the political, social, cultural and economic sphere, they may be terrified not only of their own ethnic group, but also of the majority or of the majority who live in a minority in a locality. The assumption of a problem is not artificial, it is based on real facts. This is a quote from the speech by former Member of Parliament Gábor Balogh when the National Assembly discussed the law on the rights of nationalities. I have brought you here, ladies and gentlemen, this thought a few decades ago, because, taking advantage of the debate arising from the current Commission's unacceptable decision, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we do not bury our heads in the sand. Let us not only think about the issue of minorities when we talk about minority minorities or the rights of indigenous European minorities, but let us also talk about it, and let us not silence the circumstances, the organisations, political, economic organisations and persons who, if you like, do not try to rule over the majority as a minority. If I want to name someone on the political scene who has made it the most perfect in Hungary, then it was the SZDSZ; the spiritual heirs of this sit among us today. In today's society, the will of the majority is already very widespread, not the will of the majority, but the will of the minority, often reaching the point that the majority is more suited to the minority in order not to be called exclusional, often even on the most ridiculous issues. I often feel that exemplary Western democracies are also transformed into minority democracies, because politicians are terrified that if they say something about it, minorities with tremendous lobbying power will start a campaign against them. Or, narrowing it down to our domestic relations, the official is terrified if he is justified in taking action against a minority criminal, a violation of the rules, because then he may be afraid of the vengeance of the masses, because the representatives of the state are not protecting them, because the leading politicians are also afraid of the stigma of minorities. As a conclusion, I ask current and future politicians not to be taboo, dare to express our opinion honestly about anything, and in the spirit of great tolerance let us not help to capture any majority of any minority. The proposal for a decision, which protects the rights and legitimate interests of indigenous European minorities and expects legislation to declare their rights, cultural, political and other rights on the European stage, should not be left behind, should not be lost, and should we be able to stand up to the fact that if we in Hungary have been able to implement a system of such extensive and all kinds of rights against national minorities and indigenous minorities, with enormous efforts, Hungary as an example to the countries of the European Union and the European Commission, and with all our strength to achieve this at the European Commission. Not only minorities, not only the authority of our national minorities, not only the authority of the indigenous minorities in Europe, but also the authority of Hungary, can also increase if the Hungarian Parliament can support this proposal with this resolution proposal at the international forum, in the European Union forums, with a unanimous vote. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-07-212	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! U ime Odbora za narodnosti u Maddarskoj i u svoje ime Vas s poštovanjem pozdravljam! Mr President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and on behalf of myself, I welcome you. As a spokesperson invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary discussed the proposal for a decision on the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative at its meeting on 7 April 2021. Prior to this, our committee on 24 March is the 2/2018-2022. The European Citizens' Initiative, Minority SafePack, was adopted in the Commission's information document. In the resolution, the Parliament's Committee of Nationalities in Hungary continues to support indigenous nationalities in Hungary, recognised as a factor of state-making, and national minorities representing almost 10 percent of the population of the European Union. It consistently supports the protection of the identity of these ethnic communities, the fulfilment of their individual and community rights and other autonomy rights, their right to their homeland and the security of their living there. The Committee invited the chairman of our committee to forward his resolution to all the Hungarian representatives of the European Parliament. The European Union is built on diversity. Under Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, as we have heard today, the Union is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. Article 3 also states that the Union respects its cultural and linguistic diversity and ensures the preservation and further enhancement of Europe's cultural heritage. Diversity is therefore inseparable from European identity. A legal framework ensures the maintenance of the rights of persons belonging to minorities. Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights prohibits discrimination on the basis of racial, ethnic origin, religion, membership of a national minority and language. Article 22 requires the Union to respect cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. But let's turn back to the basics to see what concept the initiative was based on and what happened over a decade. The rights of national and linguistic minorities are not always respected and not everywhere. In many cases it is possible to put ethnic language and culture at risk. Yet, it is nothing but the fact that these communities want the opportunity to live their lives according to their own traditions. If we are to maintain a diverse and livable Europe, we must speak out in order to support these values. President Panczél and State Secretary also spoke in detail about the initiative ten years ago, so I do not wish to repeat it in full, but I mention the collection of another million signatures for European diversity, which began in 2017, only because as an existing committee, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary was actively involved in this work. [[19.00]] The European Commission itself, as we know, has dealt with the initiative only if by 3 April 2018 more than one million authentic signatures have been collected in at least seven EU Member States. The initiative was successfully completed and validated in the summer of 2018. Since the initiative can only be submitted once, they wanted to request a preliminary consultation from the President of the European Commission. Since the President of the European Commission did not wish to discuss the organisers' intentions in advance, and therefore, knowing that the elections to the European Parliament would take place soon, the organisation which conducted the initiative decided to submit the signatures to the new Commission, which was set up after the elections. This finally took place on 10 January 2020 and the draft legislative proposal was presented to the European Commission on 5 February 2020. The European Parliament held a debate on the Minority SafePack in December 2020. It was encouraging for us that the European Parliament did not endorse any of the successful European citizens' initiatives so far, but in this case it did, and the overwhelming majority of MEPs voted in favour of strengthening cultural and linguistic diversity. The resolution of the European Parliament of 17 December 2020 gives its support, among other things, to the European Citizens' Initiative for a diverse Europe. It calls on the Commission to act accordingly and propose acts based on the EU Treaties, the European Citizens' Initiative Regulation and the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. It points out that the initiative registered by the Commission calls for legislative proposals in nine areas and recalls the request made in the initiative that each proposal should be examined and assessed on its own merits. The issue of the minority protection initiative was supported by national parliaments, including the Hungarian Parliament. Then in January 2021 came the cold shower. The European Commission has decided to ignore the request of more than one million European citizens and the European Parliament's resolution and not to legislate to protect national minorities. The Commission considers and takes the view that the existing rules are sufficient to enable Member States to support projects promoting the rights and culture of persons belonging to the national minority. The Commission will continue to provide guidance if Member States are faced with difficulties in order to make their intended actions in support of the rights and culture of persons belonging to a minority of nationality compatible with the state aid rules in force. In view of the above, the Commission considers that there is no need for further acts. And I, as a minority of minorities, am deeply disappointed and confused about this justification, because I cannot explain how this can happen, how it can be constantly ignored by so many people's requests. I wonder if those who make the decisions are even aware that national borders are not necessarily adapted to the identity of the people who live there. CHAPTER XXI I do not understand why they do not want certain areas of national, ethnic and linguistic minority protection to be part of EU law in a single Europe. It is time to say firmly and loudly that those belonging to the national minority do not want to take anything away from the majority communities, especially not from the European Union, but simply want to make culture more diverse. The number of citizens belonging to an indigenous national minority in the European Union exceeds 50 million. Some Member States support the language and culture of these minorities, while others, though unspoken, seek to merge their rights as soon as possible. So we can conclude that there are fortunate national minorities and that they are less fortunate. Today, as a member of nationalities, we are one of the lucky ones here in Hungary. At Parliament's meeting, we can express our views and have a say in protecting and supporting nationality, but we know that this has not always been the case and what the future will bring in the lives of some Member States, but we do not see it coming. That is why we must now stand firm to make certain areas of national, ethnic and linguistic minority protection part of EU law. In our view, the European Commission's decision to ignore proposals from citizens by representing the will of EU citizens by the European Parliament, whose position is clear. For us, it is very important that Parliament also stands up for all indigenous national minorities in Europe by adopting this proposal for a resolution. In this sense, as nationalities, we trust that our wish will prevail, and therefore we will act in support of any initiative that promotes the enforcement and protection of indigenous minority languages and cultures. This is the only way for us to achieve a Europe that sees all its citizens as equal. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary recommends the proposal for a decision to be adopted and also calls on all Members to support it. Thank you for allowing me to express the views and wishes of nationalities in our country. Thank you for listening.
u2021-04-07-214	Thank you very much for Alexov Lyubomir's views on Serbian ethnicity. I now give the floor to Mrs Kinga Gál, Member of the European Parliament.
u2021-04-07-215	Mr President, Fellow Members! Collecting more than one million valid supporting signatures from at least seven different Member States of the Union while respecting the appropriate thresholds is a major achievement in today's reality. There is no better evidence that a total of 76 registered European citizens' initiatives have been completed, including the Minority SafePack with more than 1 million valid signatures of 100,000. Mobilising communities with different history, traditions and sensitivities for a common goal is a major success in itself, but a thought-provoking success. It proves that communities living in the traditional national and linguistic minority, in addition to the many fine principles of law, charter, decision and declaration, still do not feel that they have equal opportunities compared to their majority fellow citizens across Europe that they are equally important. Let us think, fellow Members, of the outrageous affairs of the present or recent time. The Beke-Szöcs concept suit, the case of the Luzvölgy military cemetery, the still unsolved saga of the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Târgu Mures, or the Malina Hedvig case that is almost forgotten. It is no wonder, then, that any possibility of protection of minorities in the EU for all Hungarians across borders is so meaty. So thank you for every signature, every mobilization, every stand. Even relative results are not easy in the area of minority protection. Thus, the Minority SafePack initiative fought hard to stay on its feet. It was first submitted in 2013, when the Commission rejected the mere registration of the initiative. A formal decision by the European Court of Justice was required to enforce the registration. [[19.10]] And now, eight years later, after years of persistent work, over a million signatures, we are at a point where the European Commission is sweeping the issue off the table with the same arduous boredom, although the initiative is unique in that it has offered not only one framework rule on a platter, but nine drafts of legislation on which the European Commission could have initiated legislation to protect indigenous national and linguistic minorities in a number of areas. These are all areas where, if there were political will, if there were good intentions, the Commission could take concrete steps in practice without more effort. But the Commission has not lied to itself now either: it has clearly stated that it does not use a legislative initiative and cynically refers to the principle of subsidiarity, while constantly undermining the sovereignty of the Member States and seeking to override important Member States' powers if the political interest so requires. In the case of other types of minorities, in cases of other subsidiarity, the Commission is less shy, openly expressing its opinion and interfering in national policies, which has been perfectly demonstrated by the experience of recent years. It is unacceptable to apply such a double standard on a continuous basis. The progress of the Minority SafePack, my fellow Members, has been followed from the beginning by the European Parliament's minority working group, the famous Intergroup, which I have been chairing for 17 years in some form. Before the official public hearing in October last year, this was the only forum in the European Parliament where this issue could be discussed regularly and put on the agenda. This has been done on several occasions, so that MEPs could first-hand learn about the difficulties surrounding the registration of the initiative, the process of collecting signatures, and join their own communities in the success of the initiative. In accordance with the regulation of the European Citizens' Initiatives, the European Parliament should give room for a public hearing on all successful initiatives. This has been heard so often this evening with three commissions, which were organised in October of last year. I have drawn attention here to the fact that, in the last ten years, the European Commission has written on paper, in black and in black and in white, in total, fifteen times:. The discrimination of indigenous national and linguistic minorities has always been the subject of specific cases and cases, whether in education, language use or acquired rights, or hate speech, which is a matter of national competence. Therefore, he does not want to deal with their problems. Therefore, in the course of the hearing, the initiators explained in detail in October why they believe that the listed legislative initiatives fall within the competence of the EU. We hoped that this time all this would come to hearing ears at the level of the European Commission, despite the fact that Commissioner Jourová, who was responsible, could only get a meaningless message. Then, after the public hearing, we managed to obtain political support through hard consultations in order to hold a plenary debate on the issue and to reach a decision. After years of unsuccessful attempts, this is symbolic in itself. Then, finally, the decision was adopted by a majority of more than two thirds, which supported the initiative and called on the Commission to act accordingly and to propose specific acts, and recalls that each proposal should be examined and evaluated on its own merits, the European Parliament is asking the Commission to do so. During this period, national, regional and local parliaments have called on the Commission to give a positive response and an evaluation of this Minority SafePack since the end of last year. Then, since the negative response, the number of official and organisational decisions that try to get the European Commission to better understand has exceeded 50. Today's Parliamentary resolution proposal fits in nicely. At national level, the Bundestag, several provincial and regional parliaments, including the Frisian, South Tyrolian and local authorities, joined the initiative as well as the Szeklerlanders, as we have heard from Károly Panczél today. In addition, many of the official open letters expressed frustration. We in the minority working group, with the support of seventy MEPs, sent a letter to Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and Commissioner Věra Jourová. The official reply to this came just yesterday, another meaningless reply, which was signed this time by President von der Leyen himself. The Committee examined all nine initiatives and found that there was no need to initiate legislation. This is yesterday's answer to Mrs Von der Leyen. It is sad that the European Commission does not realize that it is drinking wine while preaching water. The Union is moving away from its citizens, as it asserts its civil closeness, since when it has a specific opportunity to do so, it is shutting down from any practical steps. Not only does it not build trust, but the Union is losing its credibility. After eight years of hard work, one million signatures, and the Commission's negative response, the initiators now have no choice but to bring the case back to court. The initiating committee shall request the Court of Justice of the European Union to declare the decision of the European Commission null and void. The appeal is based on the fact that there are serious shortcomings in the Commission's communication and that, in addition to its decision, it has turned its back on over one million signatories, the 50 million minority citizens of Europe and the three-quarters majority of the European Parliament, have not fulfilled their legal obligations. So we are looking at another long legal procedure, but this is the only hope that the issue can be kept on the agenda. Political decisions such as today are necessary to confirm this. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minority SafePack has once again shown us the power of the Hungarian national cooperation. 850 thousand Hungarians have contributed to the success of the initiative by supporting its signature, and nothing shows better the validity of the request, and how important this is for Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin: now that they have seen the failure of the Minority SafePack, despite this, we have also succeeded in presenting another European citizens' initiative to promote the equality of regions and the sustainability of regional cultures in relation to cohesion policy. These are the successes of the Hungarians, which strengthen the sense of belonging, showing the forces of our nation regardless of borders. This way, ladies and gentlemen, I call on Commissioner Jourová to abandon her outrageous double standards: while she overlooks the specific and real violations of indigenous national minorities, hiding behind the principle of subsidiarity, in other cases she also sees an infringement where there is no reason to use it to dessert politically unattractive governments. I would also ask you to open your ears and finally hear our joint request: now would be a concrete opportunity for the Union to regain the trust of millions of its indigenous national minorities and not to lose any credibility. I agree with every single paragraph of the Parliamentary resolution proposal tabled today, and I therefore ask you to support this resolution. Thank you. [[19.20]]
u2021-04-07-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Kinga Gál. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes, MSZP.
u2021-04-07-217	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said, I would like to reiterate that the MSZP fraction supports this draft decision, as we already supported it when this initiative was launched. This has also enjoyed our support since 2013. As President, I thought it was important for the national presidency of the MSZP to make a political decision on this; this has happened, and this decision has still characterized the party's attitude. I think there have been a lot of important and useful thoughts in the debate so far, so I would like to briefly mention one or two things. One is that I agree with those who said that a political decision has been made. Kinga Gál also spoke about the failure of the European Commission to fulfil its legal tasks. I also believe that a clear political decision has been made here. They simply didn't want to open a front in this area, and they didn't dare to enter into a task which, by the way, since the establishment of the European Union, would be a responsibility and duty for the European Commission, which Mr Szászfalvi has already said, that diversity must be a value for the European Union. The second is that the assessment is also true that, in some respects, they may have played the initiative in the European Commission, because the request was not to use legislative initiatives, but to take into account the interests of minorities where the ECJ already has jurisdiction. That didn't happen with this decision either. And I would also encourage us to agree with several speakers that this fight, this fight, should not be given up, because many countries and Member States have joined the European Union with the hope that the situation of minorities will also improve when one becomes a Member State of the European Union. There are a number of examples of this now, unfortunately, that this has not been achieved, on several occasions. That's why it's not automatic. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As has been said here, membership of the European Union means immediately Canaan to minorities. The example provided shows that this is not the case, so the fight must continue. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-04-07-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Németh, Fidesz, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2021-04-07-219	Mr President, Dear House, I'm not gonna take 15 minutes. I am very pleased with this high-quality, exciting exchange of views, which I think Mr President and Mr notary would like to participate in, because they are also committed to this issue. I would like to say a few words on the issue of use of words, and then a few thoughts on the importance of the initiative and the importance of this evening, and then on the scene and position of the fight. So these are the three aspects that I would like to touch on. Speaking of words, we use the term Minority SafePack, and it's quite widespread now, but our compatriots don't understand it. Therefore, I would specifically like to ask you, fellow Members, that, when we talk about this matter, we use the Hungarian use of the Hungarian language drafted by the Hungarian Permanent Conference, which represents the Minority SafePack as a national minority protection initiative. I think that the Minority SafePack citizens' initiative and whatnot to refer to it as a national minority protection initiative is a good summary. Secondly, the question of the Szekler petition is also a question of using words. I would like to propose here, as this also has a very long title, Kinga Gál presented this, and I propose and there is not yet a decision of the Hungarian Permanent Conference to call the Szekler petition a citizens' initiative on national regions, because this initiative is very clearly about national regions, and it also reflects the legal significance that many people here have already touched on. I would like to note that the two citizens' initiatives are indeed not unlike each other, but complement each other very well, as we have, by the way, very well worked out the coherence between the concepts of cultural autonomy and territorial autonomy in recent decades. Moreover, it is no coincidence that if we find coherence between cultural and territorial autonomy, this has to do with the two initiatives, since the national minority protection initiative is basically about cultural rights, while the initiative on national regions has a very important territorial dimension that appreciates its importance. So the two citizens' initiatives complement each other well, and I would like to note here that there is a month to go before the signing of the citizens' initiative on national regions is completed, and it has not yet reached the 25 per cent surplus in all seven countries that it needs to be collected to be valid. Therefore, I would like to encourage everyone not to wank and continue to support the collection of signatures, especially in countries where the number of signatures has not yet reached this threshold. How do I see the significance of the statement before us, the initiative at all? Three things. Firstly, we are indeed facing the challenge of creating an EU pillar of the European minority protection system. We need a European minority protection system because the situation of European national minorities is not settled. And the European minority protection system has several pillars that have already been established. It is an important pillar of the Council of Europe, we have heard about it, and it is an important pillar of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. There are important steps here, and important developments are also taking place in the relationship between these two organisations with the European Union itself, because, for example, the Lisbon Treaty stipulated that the European Union should accede to the Human Rights Convention adopted by the Council of Europe under its aegis, and perhaps to other conventions already established by the Council of Europe, such as the Conventions on the Protection of Minorities, where appropriate, for which it is crucial that this decisive step on the part of the European Union, this accession event, should take place. The Hungarian Council Presidency of Europe, which will now take place from May to November, will also address this issue, but what we should now set out and close to a brief conclusion is that the European Union cannot stand out from building this European system of protection for minorities, and I think that we are going in the right direction: this building from the bottom up in areas where the European Union already has clear jurisdiction may be the starting point. Secondly, we are indeed talking about citizens' initiatives, as we have heard here in the debate. It is quite scandalous that the legal institution dealing with the democratic deficit of the European Union, whose rapporteur was György Schöpflin, our MEP, should also remember him, I find it quite scandalous that there has been zero legislative initiatives from all invalid and all valid citizens' initiatives. I think that this has a very serious responsibility for the European Commission, and we really need to take action to protect citizens' initiatives, in addition to taking action to protect national minorities when we talk about this issue. And the third significance of this debate may be less direct, but the debate on the future of the European Union is starting again in May. [[19.30]] A serious conference has created a serious structure, and it does not matter what direction the debate on the future of the European Union will take. Will there be national minority protection in Europe? I believe that we cannot give up on this, just as we do not underestimate the success of the Lisbon Treaty, even if it is in such a way that the issue of the rights of national minorities is presented. It was also a diplomatic result in Hungary, and we cannot give up the issue of national minority protection on the agenda of this debate. Similarly, it is important that the issue of the democratic deficit in the European Union is undeniable and, in the context of this, the place for citizens' initiatives should be properly resolved in the debate on the European future. And it is hidden in this debate tonight, but not so much, what is the place of the European Commission in the institutional structure of the European Union, what is the place of the European Commission in this hierarchy. This is not an additional issue of the debate on the future of the European Union, we are also discussing it, and there will be much talk about it in the coming months. The third subject that I wanted to touch on briefly, and this is how this fight stands, what the position is, what the scenes are. Indeed, it has a legal and political dimension, and although the situation is two-faced tonight, I also think it is important to emphasise that there is something to be pleased about. Some things can no longer be taken away from us as a result of recent years, we are moving step by step, but I think that we are moving towards the establishment of this particular national minority protection system. In legal terms, minority organisations have won a very serious victory against the European Commission before the European Court of Justice. This debate has been taking place for ten years for both citizens' initiatives.11.13.16.19.21. A ten-year-old novel in a legal sense, which is before us, and an unparalleled success if we think about how many times the European Commission has wanted to put this matter to bed and how many times this has come up in the last ten years. There are few such exciting legal problems. And I am also saying what many of my fellow Members have stressed here is that if so much energy and so much small victory is involved in this story, then this must continue. I welcome the fact that the FUEN is going back to trial against the European Commission, and I believe that this should be prepared even when the European Commission is going to want to invest in national regions. In the case of national regions, the European Court of Justice ruled that there is a national region. Then what is the national region from now on? From here on, national regions can be defined, where appropriate, and then subject to financing and support, where appropriate. And finally, the political situation, the state of the fight. Indeed, one and a half million signatures are collected in two rounds, one after the other, starting in 2017, and still taking place here, in 21, for four years. Unbelievable perseverance, commitment, determination behind this one and a half million, two and a half million signatures. The two citizens' initiatives here in the Carpathian Basin were a very important scene of Hungarian cooperation. Recognition to the DAHR, the National Council of Székely; in Hungary the Rákóczi Association should not be forgotten twice and repeatedly, as more than 600 thousand signatures were directly linked to the Rákóczi Association in the National Minority Protection Initiative; Pesty László: irdala.hu. It is extremely important that the nationalities in Hungary speak in a voice that we have heard from the advocate, and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities stands up to such an important national issue, and the highest recognition is due to the present chairman of the committee. What a political achievement international cooperation is that the FUEN, a sleeping organisation, has finally been able to live with a Europeanly relevant, visible political initiative and display the will of 50 million people! In the European Parliament, Kinga Gál, Intergroup, has been recognised for having such a decision adopted in the European Parliament with nearly 80% support, as opposed to the European Commission. It is not often that the European Parliament does so. Let us draw lessons from the hearing, from the success of the European Parliament, and prepare for the need for more of these, because in the case of the Szekler petition it may very easily be possible to use these experiences. And let's learn that you can't do it alone and you have to hit the iron. National policy is diplomacy, too. There are many faces in national politics, but also diplomacy. Hungary must build an alliance, and Hungarian organizations from abroad must learn English and make their intentions and demands acceptable and understandable in an international language. I should like to thank the Committee on National Inclusion for this statement and for this initiative. And I think it is very important that the National Inclusion Committee presents a national consensus that is a vital condition for Hungary's success in national policy. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-07-220	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Németh. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2021-04-07-221	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank you, on the one hand, for the moment of grace which now prevails in this House, so that, on one subject, the parties of Parliament can finally agree on a common minimum and put it on the table. I would like to thank everyone who has participated in these initiatives and is involved in the future, as a simple signatory to these initiatives and, by the way, as a huge sympathizer, because if, at this point, the history of the initiatives stops, or we write down that, in fact, the ugly Commission is being swept down, and it is not worth it, it would indeed be a failure experience. I don't think that's what we're gonna do, and don't do that. Obviously, the possibility of survival should be sought here as well. I see that although it is a success in itself that six of the 76 initiatives that have been launched have gone through, and one of them, and then another one that is related to the subject, and by the way, I am sure that a lot of people are moving, but I would be very calm to think about what else we can do together outside of the citizens' initiatives in order to succeed in this case. In order to remain positive, there was such a parliamentary debate several years ago when I had to ask the government to spend more on the budget for British reimbursement, i.e. for the compensation to British farmers at the time, paid by the Hungarian budget for the entry into the EU and the accession treaty than for the entire Bethlen Gábor Fund. There's been a budget year. Fortunately, these distressing times may already be behind us, and it can now be said that much more money is moving to be used for either economic development or other purposes. We can, of course, debate their effectiveness, we will have a lot of discussions on these issues, but perhaps we can also agree that the double standard, as in many cases the Brussels machine deals with matters concerning national minorities and other, perhaps more fashionable, political issues, can be a huge diplomatic complication from the banning of a flag. In the second half of the nineties, when I began to be more active in public life as a national-minded youth, I had a frighteningly similar phenomenon, repressive to national minorities, and I was pissed off at what I saw today. [[19.40]] I can see that between the two periods there has been a dramatic loss, and the number of Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin has decreased by a million people. What I see is that in the middle of a demographic winter, in the middle of a demographic emergency, it is very important whether it is about the Hungarians of the torn parts, or whether they are living here, that families who want to thrive in their homeland get all the help they can get. I am amazed at the fact that prosperity in the homeland and the issue of national minorities are not somehow linked in Brussels and Strasbourg as they should be. But I also see that I would be more relaxed about the issues, if, say, Hungarian companies, medium-sized and larger enterprises, who, say, are engaged in farming activities in Transylvania, did not send that business tax to Bucharest, but, let's say, they would have their headquarters where there is a demonstrable Hungarian national minority, and where appropriate, the trade tax payment could enrich the region where our Hungarian brothers are trying to thrive in their homeland. If, and I know, this is not necessarily a parliamentary genre, because we cannot and do not want to interfere in the lives of private companies in this way, but if we treat this as an organic whole, then perhaps this is also part of the case, as we have seen many times over the last two decades, that, in the case of Hungarian-owned companies crossing the border, the vast majority of employees were not always made up of Hungarians living outside the border, but in many cases this could even be a disadvantage. I'm glad there's a shift in these areas. In any case, I would like to encourage the initiativers, the participants, to make this process campaign-like, because, no matter how we calculate, we are now above two million signatures in total, and we may still have more if further initiatives are launched. Maybe we need to get a mass pressure that no organization can say no to. We will support all such fair initiatives, and if this moment of grace remains or this climate stays together, then perhaps it would be best if all political parties together could encourage their own followers and sympathizers in Hungary to stand up in the interests of national minorities, we have a dog duty to stand up, and this should not be an issue in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-07-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik in a 15-minute time frame.
u2021-04-07-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to a recent, perhaps today's report in case you've missed it. President Ursula von der Leyen of the European Commission visited the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, at the head of the Turkish state, Erdoğan, and at the beginning of the discussion, before it began, the Commission President was struck by the unworthy, humiliating situation of being seated on the couch, while the Turkish President and the President of the European Council took their seats. I think that the symbolic message of this whole matter as a drop of sea carries all kinds of misery for the entire European Union as a political institution. We have to ask how we got here. We Hungarians, too, have been European citizens since 2004, most of us have joined this political community with good hopes and great expectations, and there are many reasons why the story has come to this point that the European Union is currently showing the image of an institution that has lost its identity and has recently been humiliated by the despots and statesmen in Eastern Europe. There are many reasons for this. I think that a very important reason for this is that the European Union has lost the community spirit, the binder, the moral foundation that once existed. If we look at the common values of the current European Union, what common commitments, what common goals are held together, then unfortunately we can see that many of the values laid down by the founding fathers, which have often referred to, are only traces of the founding values of the present European Union, the former Union. If we are to draw a very shady verdict, I see that, in its current form, under the current leadership of the European Union as a political institution, the European Union is good for almost one thing only to support the profits of capital-powered multinational companies, to secure the market, to remove the legal obstacles that lie ahead of them. It's very sad that that's true. It is very sad that all the common affairs, ideas and goals that should give the foundation, the foundation of this 450 million community, they have a completely marginal role or a lack of understanding or a lack of interest from the leaders of the European Union. More than a million people, with their signatures, have shown that they claim the right to live in their homeland, in the land where their ancestors and ancestors inhabited this land, populated it, built culture, gave identity, and managed without discrimination. And then the European Commission says in a move that thanks, no, we don't have to deal with this, so you guys do this on your own. How can we then be to any citizen of the European Union... and we are talking about not a few people anyway. There are tens of millions of people who belong to a national community within the European Union. What message does this have to the citizens of the European Union? How can you then give a credible stand for any issues of minority protection or any kind of community? I don't think it's authentic. Although it pains me, as a Hungarian national, that the European Commission is not willing to deal with this very, very important issue, which is meaty for Hungarians who have broken down into several countries in the world and in the Carpathian Basin, the matter goes far beyond that. I think that there is only one chance for the European Union to return to the stage of the world, not to show the image of a world power on a bench placed on a bench, humiliated, quasi-paper form, and in reality of a second-rate political community, and to find its founder's values and to appreciate the members of its own community. Appreciation has many different forms. One of the most minimal forms of expression would be that the European Union makes it clear that it does not have first-rate and second-rate citizens, no matter what community they belong to. We should get this far. Even though, in political terms, this struggle has now temporarily come to a standstill, or at least a page cut, I trust that the initiativers will have the determination and perseverance to go through with it. I trust that the national minority protection initiative will be a matter that, as an exception to the rule, perhaps here, within the walls of this House, brings together representatives belonging to different political party families and who have different political views on the basis of a given common goal and invites them to take joint action. Both on my own behalf and in the name of the Civil Reply Movement, to which I am a representative, I can provide support for both the initiators and those organisations, including the Hungarian Government and the various lobbying organisations associated with the Hungarian Government, EU institutions, which are struggling to ensure that this ongoing fight for the protection of minorities, legal and identity policy for many years is not in vain. I wish you all the best of luck. [[Zsolt Németh applauds.]]
u2021-04-07-224	Thank you very much, Congressman János Bencsik. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, President Károly Panczél, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[19.50]]
u2021-04-07-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is so gratifying to say that I cannot argue with you, since everyone has agreed and supported the proposal for a resolution brought here by the committee. It has been said on several occasions how important it is that, at least on issues of national policy, there is consensus, how good that is. Fortunately, this is not the first case, because the national minority protection initiative has already been here before the House, and a large majority of Members have still supported it. The case of the Szekler national regions was here months ago and was also supported by a large majority of the Hungarian Parliament; but if I go back a little longer, then the protest against the Ukrainian language law was supported by many factions, so fortunately we can now give several examples, which is a national minimum and there is consensus. It has been said here in today's debate, in a quotation sign, that in the debate, the protection of national identity has been repeated. You may remember that last year, my fellow Members, we adopted a political statement entitled "Protecting National Identity." It was then that we confirmed that what we are actually talking about today is that to inherit culture, the mother tongue, traditions from our ancestors, to pass on to our children, to our grandchildren, and to enjoy ourselves in the homeland that Congressman Sigismund Brown said, that if in the homeland you feel well and thrive there is peace, there is stability, there is prosperity in these ethnic regions, it is also good for the majority of the state, and then we also said that this is also a European matter. Because we believe that this is a right for everyone in Europe, and we even said that there should be a fundamental human right to national identity, and that these two issues, the national minority protection initiative or the protection of identity, are closely linked. It seems that this was not a European issue in the European Commission, but a Hungarian issue, and it was good to kick us a big one. I think they made a mistake, by the way. As much uproar in Europe today from Frisland to Veneto or from Székelyudvarhely to Valencia, I think that the European Commission has made a very, very big mistake in this regard too, we have found many, many allies within moments. And politically, this decision to reject everything has brought more confusion than it seems to have taken two or three meaningless measures. In some sleepy little town in northern Italy, they would have created a centre for ethnic languages, brought in a couple of pretend actions, spotted our eyes; we could argue that this is very little, and they could have said that, please, we supported several points of the citizens' initiative. I say that we are in an even more fortunate position politically, that everything has been rejected, and that should indeed be, as Mr Balczó said today, rather than the failure of the European Commission, but that should be their shame. I also thank you very much for the support of the minority committee, and thank you for once again, let us say, for supporting the Hungarian cause, although I think that a Hungarian Serb is doing the right thing, as Alexov Lyubomir is doing to turn to his fellow nations, for example, in the case of a Serb's country of birth, say, in the territory of today's Croatia, or in the region of Timisoara, or in a Bulgarian homeland, country of origin, say, in Greece, or in Romania; we have a common interest and a common European issue is the issue of indigenous ethnic minorities. So thank you very much. I hope that in three weeks' time, when the vote takes place, we can say here that we voted in the same way as the Bundestag, and we can say that there is consensus in this matter in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-226	Thank you very much, Congressman Károly Panczél, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have the opportunity to submit amendments on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. László Keresztes, leader of the group Lóránt Keresztes, may be Más a Politics:. Our city, called Pécs.
u2021-04-07-227	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, in my speeches after the agenda, I talk about my narrower country, the problems of Pécs and Baranya. This will be the case today, but today I am talking about issues that are far from national. I would like to point out a system problem in Baranya with examples of Pécs, which is present in some parts of the country. Recall that on 16 February 2020 Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made several announcements in a large year-end speech and made several promises. These included the government abolishing illegal landfills and punishing polluters. Compared to this, I think we can sum it up, and this, I repeat, is absolutely true for the entire country that the government has not been able to deliver on this promise, and since then, we can say, not only that the situation has improved with regard to illegal landfills, but rather rather that the situation has gone in a worse direction, so these illegal landfills are multiplying, and we can say that the authorities, municipalities and local communities cannot cope with this task. In many ways, this is because the current laws are simply wrong, reconnaissance is not effective enough, government agencies often do not even use the means in their hands that they would have the opportunity to do, and the penalties are by no means so strict, they are not so powerful as to have a deterrent effect. However, how serious the situation is, I would like to highlight it with a few concrete examples. In December 2019, just a few days before Christmas, a huge scandal happened not only to the local, but also to say that the entire national press, when not far from Pécs, between Komló and Manfa in Baranya County, was illegally dumping 40 tons of waste from a truck into a green area, so 40 tons of rubber and plastic waste was dumped without any license. And interestingly, this truck went into the mud, the unsub was immediately caught in the act, the report was made, and since then the origin of the waste was revealed; practically all the information about the case was immediately at the disposal of the authorities. I repeat: this was at the end of December 2019, shortly before Christmas. Now, in 2021, in the spring of 2021, we are saying that this huge amount of waste is still in this place, and the police, as it may have been recently, have closed the investigation. In this case, a breach of the order of waste management resulted in a report and the investigation started, and I received the police's report not too long ago that it was not possible to establish a criminal offence based on available data or evidence, and therefore the investigation will be terminated. This is quite a penetrant example, my fellow Members. So I repeat: 40 tonnes of waste was deposited in a municipal area without the municipality knowing it, and the company who did this did not have any authorization to do so. The unsub, the transport company, the origin of the waste came here from Italy, by the way, this waste, and the authorities failed to detect a crime. I would add that even in his letter, the police informed me that they had sent this matter to the government office; I can tell you that the government office had established some kind of obligation in some way, but it was not effective in any way; this waste is still there. This penetrant example, I think, points out that the legal environment in Hungary is bad at the moment, the authorities cannot or in many cases do not want to carry out their task, and that is, in all respects, the Hungarian government's fault. [[20.00]] Not so long ago, we presented proposals and legislative amendments that tighten up these problems to Parliament, which were designed to solve these system problems, and in a rather shocking way, in early March, the last time in a committee meeting, the pro-government representatives did not speak to him, they did not find any opinion on this, they simply said no. So the government doesn't do its job, it doesn't tighten up the relevant laws, but it still votes against the amendments that we make. Similarly, it was a rather shocking example that, on the border between Pécs and Cserkút, an incredibly large, illegal rubber dump has been eroded for years, and we have filed a complaint in this case, the experience was similar, disaster management could not do anything about this situation, the municipality complained that it could not act, it could not eliminate this situation, and likewise all authorities proved to be practically lame ducks. This issue, the latter one, seems to have been solved, has now become significantly smaller, but it is shocking that there has been no conviction in this case, and there has also been no criminal investigation. We are not going to give up on solving these tasks, so we will put forward once again proposals to the Parliament that will allow the imposition of harsh penalties, which have a deterrent effect, and we very much hope that the pro-government representatives will learn from their mistakes and support it. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience.
u2021-04-07-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, applied to the post-municipal address:. When universities were not yet used for theft of public property. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-07-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, 151 years ago, on 7 April 1870, József Eötvös, Minister of Religion and Public Education of the First and Third Hungarian Governments, presented to the House a bill on the organisation of the University of Arts. One of the most prestigious technical universities in Central Europe and Hungary is the University of Arts, which was the first technical university in the world with its foundation in 1782, the first institution to have completed engineering in university structures. Today, the University of Technology could no longer remain, even though everyone who was born before 2000 will call it that for all eternity, and who is proud of this great, 239-year-old institution. Unfortunately, after the Revolution and War of Independence of 1848-49, the Institute of Engineering was terminated by imperial decree on 29 September 1850. This was also an element of the revenge of the monarchs for the revolution and was attached to the Ipartanoda, which was set up in 1846. After many changes, József Eötvös presented his bill to the House on 7 April 1870 as a result of the relief caused by the compromise in 1867. Among other things, this is mentioned in the presentation:, After the mathematics and natural sciences of the University are presented at the height of the investigation and as free scientific method as in general all sciences at the university, let the State state's equal position be stated in law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At that time, it was an empire, our people living in the political system of absolutism, but it was able to support and maintain the establishment of the political class and the ruler of state universities. Could he have done it to control the universities directly? He could have. Could it have been that he was not sending people from the scientific community, but only those from the family class or the noble class, to supervise universities? He could have. But he didn't, because he knew science was universal, and he had to be handed over to those with the highest level of knowledge and ability to organize and maintain them. Then 151 years will pass, and today we are about to be occupied by political and friendly companies with remuneration that has not been given to many university leaders in the last 239 years, the leadership positions of universities, fully captivating science and the intellectual value that universities feed on. It's an inexhaustible sin. Thank you for your attention. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-04-07-230	Thank you. I welcome once again my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Representative János Bencsik applied for a post-meeting speech, independent:, How much longer? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-04-07-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you and express my gratitude to all the general practitioners, health workers, police officers, members of the professional staff and everyone involved in the long weekend of Easter that I and hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots received the vaccine against the coronal virus epidemic. However, I would also like to express my deep disappointment as regards the Hungarian political elite here in this House, both the opposition and the party of government. After the past months, you have repeatedly demonstrated that you are unable to act as a responsible party of government and are unable to act as responsible opposition parties. The opposition parties rejected and tried to boycott Eastern vaccines in competition with each other in the last month. A few weeks ago, Peter James talked about human trials in these benches, the Democratic Coalition launched a signature collection against Eastern vaccines, and András Fekete-Győr declared that he would certainly not be vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine and understood everyone who did. Then what does God give? I watch it on Facebook at Easter, the opposition party leaders encourage me in a joint video, and they call me up for vaccination. It's a very welcome turn of events, what a pity it wasn't, let's say, three months ago. Three months ago, the leading opposition parties of all of you were busy collecting likes from people's frustration, fear, well-founded or unfounded alienation to vaccines. And when they had the chance to choose the responsible attitude or choose the like hunt, they chose the like hunt. There was only one responsible opposition political community that made a clear decision at the beginning of the vaccination, that was the Civil Reply, and it is worth looking back. At the time when we turned to 2021, the vast majority of Hungarian society, two thirds of them, were still skeptical about vaccines, but we did not consider how much likes we bring, but we agreed that this would trigger a very big disapproval and attack. Because we felt it was right, that we felt the right and responsible attitude to get into the pro-vaccination campaign. Let's talk about vaccination for teachers. This is also a proposal for which the Citizens' Reply, at the end of January, was the first of the opposition parties to stand up, including the ruling party. Then, if the government had done this, we wouldn't be afraid to inch it out, when and how to reopen schools on April 19th, all teachers could have been vaccinated in that time. The Prime Minister said that everyone who signs up by 24 March will receive at least their first shot by Easter. I would like to tell you, honourable members of the government, that you have failed with this commitment. Inexplicably, educators and teachers at the kindergarten were taken from among the teachers; moreover, between 24 and 29 March, 84 thousand new teachers registered. So right now, we're looking at over 100,000 teachers who haven't even gotten their first shot. How do you intend to send these people back, force them back into the classrooms? Well, you know perfectly well that vaccination doesn't mean immediate immunity. Today's news is that they're planning to inoculate 100,000 people by Sunday. So if no one else in this country were to be killed for a week, only teachers, even those at the end of the line would no longer be granted immunity until 19 April. I would like to reiterate the initiative that I took on this day two weeks ago in the walls of this House: do not reopen schools, force teachers back into school benches and classrooms until they receive the immunity for vaccination. It won't be long before their immunity, at least the minimum partial immunity, develops after the first vaccination, which is at least two weeks. I would also like to ask you to put an end to the process of automatically prioritising our elderly countrymen in the system simply because of their age. If all the elderly and young people with chronic diseases are vaccinated and the teachers are vaccinated, take the active workers in the order of vaccination in advance; people who cannot stay at home because they cannot work remotely cannot reduce their contact numbers, because they have to get up every day, go to work to support their families, and those who are now in as much danger, are exposed to the virus as our elderly countrymen. I ask you to act before it's too late. Thank you very much. [[20.10]]
u2021-04-07-232	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Horváth, Fidesz Group, applied for a speech with the title '2'. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-07-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, That's the second time I've asked you to take a stand on the Pearl Road. In my previous speech, from the very beginning, in this case from 2003 to 2010, we have been able to track the calvary of this road, which has led nowhere to this day, and which has not been avoided. For those interested, I might briefly sum up the contents of the previous section by saying that the development, which was justified, useful and necessary in many respects, was a recurring campaign promise of both the MSZP and the Gyurcsány- and Bajnai governments, which was left in half for his fate and for destruction, because during the process he disappeared from the transport wallet of János Kóka, we are talking about HUF 900 million in parentheses. Of course, anyone can ask what it is that an important investment in progress, to which the state has already spent over a billion forints of taxpayers' money, could not be completed because it just disappeared to 900 million forints. Why'd he disappear? Where'd he go? Who even made it disappear? All of this has not been answered by any then socialist politician. In 2007 György Hiesz, then the mayor of MSZP told Gyöngyös without any special explanation the dry fact with the ones left on the hop. Of course, there were all kinds of malicious rumors, as is usually the case. Some were well informed that, in fact, two ministers in the Gyurcsány government had quarrelled, and the result of the perversion was that one of the ministers had been taught a lesson in this way. But let's forget the rumors. One thing is certain that the global economic crisis in 2008 cannot be blamed for the disappearance of 900 million in 2007. This has to be stated only because left-wing explanations point to the global economic crisis later on and today as an explanation. But let's move on. As usual, after 2010 after the left had lost the election, he quickly navigated to the field of forgetting, and began to take account of his unrequited promise on the Orbán government, he began to demand implementation on the Orbán government. And it really makes sense at first sight why, after the change of government in 2010, it was not possible to finish quickly, rip-chop, the path that had been abandoned for years. Well, that's because the Gyurcsány era didn't just leave an unfinished journey in Gyöngyös. In 2010, not only the country, but also Gyöngyös's city, was on the verge of bankruptcy. Depressing unemployment, lured and forced into foreign exchange loans, families, businesses, debt-living institutions on the brink of inability to function, plus the infamous socialist health privatization nightmare brought down the city hospital, which was not, incidentally, responsible and responsible for the care of 120,000 people. This was the socialist legacy of Gyöngyös, plus the abandoned bypass. There was no thanks in this legacy, but while we are at it, we should thank all those who have put Gyöngyös back on his feet with a multi-annual effort. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party! Long live the party!]] In 2010, the left hand handed over the city of Gyöngyös with more than five billion dollars in debt, and he did not even say sorry. The Orbán government said that Gyöngyös must be freed from this situation. The city has paid its billions of dollars in debt, saved schools, colleges, public collections, hospitals from bankruptcy, supported businesses creating jobs with significant amounts. Yes, during this period left behind today, the case of the missed bypass was not the first in line, but it was not forgotten the inherited, unfulfilled promise. In 2011, János Fónagy, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development at that time, was able to say with responsibility that the unfinished section of the road will be possible in the period 2017-2020. At the time, this time seemed very distant, very painfully distant, but it came in 2017, and the government included in the national road development plan the Gyöngyös bypass and gave a hundred million forints to cover the preparation. And what happened next, I will say in my next speech. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-07-234	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-235	Mr President, Dear House, Parliament's walls have heard a lot of things regarding the evaluation of crisis management, government-party self-glorification eulogy, oppositional legitimate criticisms and, obviously, disputes about them, but perhaps we can agree that every public figure in an epidemiological emergency has a dog's duty to exercise a humanitarian, human minimum and also to stand through fire and water. What, though, can we think of when we face the fact that the self - glorifying and constantly praising government lets the eviction moratorium spin out, in the middle of the epidemiological emergency, in the days, weeks, when mortality figures, unfortunately, show and paint something quite horrific for the near future? A self-respecting government in such a situation would not allow families to go out on the street without being housed. We are here with angelic patience to listen to the production reports, the propaganda hymns, and all the other things that this otherwise dreading government is trying to restore its own fragile self-confidence in the fact that he's actually doing what he's doing well, but then there's an obsession. Reality comes up, and it shows that at the end of this month, the eviction moratorium is running out. This government is the courageous but, in my opinion, the church of false national and false Christian warriors here, we are asking for a sign to quote the warrior; it simply does not dare to face this problem; it does not respond to our suggestion of this, and even in one committee where the opposition proposal in this direction has arrived, it has been said that it is not really the opposition representative, but the background power that demands an extension of the eviction moratorium. I therefore expect this government to confess, confess, that the pact signed with the EBRD in February 2015 is governed by the agreement with the banks, or that it is finally willing to turn to the voters of our country and to express, articulate and defend the fundamental interests of life that are about not to be thrown out of its home in the middle of an emergency. I therefore expect all pro-government representatives to manifest themselves on this issue, or, if they are not able to do so, then, in the 2022 election, voters will obviously bring those who have now contributed their votes or their inactions to making thousands of Hungarian citizens leave their homes, I repeat, without any accommodation. What would you call it, fellow Members, the process of throwing someone on the street in the middle of an epidemic? There's no such thing as a sign. You've done a lot of things against families. They introduced 27 percent VAT on basic foods and child - rearing products, from bread to diapers to many articles that hit families who have children. You have taxed the minimum wage, which has enjoyed measurable benefits in the past. We also see that, with the conscious weakening of the forint, a separate tax of a thousand billion-dollar magnitude was imposed on the most difficult families each year, and the amount of the family allowance is also left to inflame, losing roughly half of its value, since it has been the same since 2010. We, Jobbikos, want to double the family allowance on a family card, using basic food and child-rearing articles, but I do not think there will be any discussion with opposition parties about doubling. At the same time, we see that there are undoubtedly family support instruments, which should not be taken away, I think, which is a good thing, that should be praised, rather than the world record in Hungary, that so much of the resources grouped there should be so few results. After all, if someone builds with a ministerial salary at Lake Balaton, he can call a discount of 10 million on the voter's account, on the taxpayer's account, who would like to be released as a young person, let's say, from the apartment, in case he gets a reduced loan and a few hundred thousand forints in support, if the intermediary bank decides to do so. [[20.20]] This Fidesz Hungary, the networks of banks and multi-company companies dictate the pace of government dance. Instead of making a pact with bankers, we would like the Hungarian electorate to be in the middle of the epidemic in the first, second and third place, and immediately order the eviction moratorium until the end of the emergency. We do not want to settle for anything less, but we will not tolerate, and we will not tolerate, one of the cruelest Hungarian governments of all time putting Hungarian citizens on the streets in the middle of an epidemic. We'll be there, trying to protect them as long as we can. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-04-07-236	Thank you. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr.Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group, has applied for a post- Agenda address: . Temporary or final? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-237	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, When I was preparing for this speech, I did not think that life would change the substance of the speech. Among the items on today's agenda, we have heard a lawyer practicing law and giving legal advice that he does not have an exam, there was a great outrage between the benches, and a veterinarian is practicing in such a way that he is a Member of Parliament, how outrageous it is to cure animals. Interestingly, when the man from your party family turns out to be the head of a health institution with a false diploma, your funded media and you are silent, now, during the epidemic treatment, especially. Sümeg and her area have been rumored for about six months now that her outpatient director in Sümeg has a false graduation. The mayor repeatedly said that it was false news, not true, that this was the opposition's accusation, and then three days before Easter, the final decision of the Pécs Police Department, in which a graphicist-writing expert found that the certificate and diploma he had presented and seized was false. So we have a final warrant. Now hold on, he built a college and a doctorate for this fake high school, so he could be head of outpatient care. What concerns me most, and I do not want to go into legal thesis now, because it will be up to the Tapolca Police Department to see what other crimes he has committed, because he is probably also subject to the statute of limitations, but what concerns me very much is that the Subregional Multipurpose Association of Sümeg has won 178 million forints for the development of outpatient care services with the number EFOP-2.19-17 issued by the Ministry of Human Resources, the sponsor of the Union, the author of the Hungarian state, and there has been extra points for those with a higher degree of professional leadership, and the director has recommended herself to be a higher professional leader. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The question arises: if he was aware that his diploma was based on a false graduation, he deceived the Hungarian state, deceived the funder, the Union, and because it was a multi-companiment tender, I am afraid he has hurt the municipalities. Because if it turns out that this application submitted by him, which thus won additional support, plus points, and was misused, could give wrong data reporting, false data reporting to EMMI, then I would list a few to these municipalities, including several small municipalities: Bazsi, Bodorfa, Csabrendek, Darodr, Gogánfa, Gyepükaján, Rigacs, Sümegprága, Szentimrefalva, Ukk, Zalaszegvár. Well, you know how easy these municipalities are gonna be right now, and they're gonna pay that amount out of their pockets. That he, morally, morally in my opinion, completely failed Sümegen, was now accepted by the people. One thing they cannot accept: the more than six months of silence that the local Fidesz or, say, the mayor, who was his employer, did not suspend him until the investigation was completed. That's all you had to do. I'm not saying that he knew about it, that he may have been deceived, but it would have been his duty, that if such suspicions were raised, he would have been exonerated as other medical workers, even a paramedic, if he had been charged, until he had been cleared, he would have been acquitted of work. But no, he's 2 million a month, I'll tell you again, he's pocketed 2 million 68,000 forints a month. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] By probably deceiving his employer as well. Now, that's where the criminal proceedings that the Tapolca Police Department is going to conduct will come from, and I'm still waiting for the outraged voices from the fidesz bench when this case ends. I would like to say this: that there is peace in Sümegen, but that peace requires that this principal, because she had a false diploma, be relieved of her work. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-04-07-238	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, To speak after the agenda, Ms Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title "The Sound of the Region." You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-239	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We could get used to your politics being more equal than equals, but in order for this to happen in the fidesz benches, there are few examples. But let's see what's happened here recently. Well, what Zsolt Semjén didn't succeed was Lajos Szűcs. Because hunters receive special support from the subject that they can sit out at night under curfew. Lajos Szűcs failed to make this difference in the fishing community, and with strict epidemiological measures, they could sit on the shores of the lakes alone and fish there. Well, let's see how the Hungarian fishing community compares to this double standard! Well, they're pretty angry, and I'm gonna tell you right here in Parliament's walls, because by getting their annual territorial license, they're gonna pay us a tough tens of thousands here at the time of the pandemic. There will be no compensation, and under curfew and curfew, they cannot sit by the lakes even at night, even though the hunters were able to get Zsolt Semjén to stay on high watch at night with a certificate, indeed, in compliance with strict epidemiological measures. What's different about a fisherman and a hunter? How is a Hungarian person different from another Hungarian person? Our countrymen are the same, and these aspects should be taken into account. Because it is a real problem if many people in one place gather and worship their passion, but here we are talking not only about homage to passion, because there are species of fish that can only be fished at night, and it is also the case at Lake Balaton that there is a fishing ban now many years ago, so it is the fishermen alone who can restore the ecological balance in certain waters. But if you deprive fishermen of the opportunity to go out at night and fish on their own in strict compliance with the epidemiological rules, then the ecological and natural resources of our waters and lakes and rivers will be threatened. I ask you, Lajos Szűcs, as president of the Hungarian National Fishing Association, why is he silent? Why don't you stand up for those hundreds of thousands of fishermen? Why doesn't it also represent their voice here in the Hungarian Parliament and make it possible for the government to be exempt from curfew from today's curfew from 10:00 to 5:00 a.m. and receive a certificate to be on the waterfront alone at night? But if they can't afford it, at least make a distinction between being able to stay on the coast all the way through this curfew because they can help them; as I said, territorial permits cost tens of thousands of forints when these annual permits were issued, they didn't know that they would be affected by such a deterioration, and they're right to be outraged, so a partial solution could be to allow fishermen to stay overnight during the curfew from 10:00 to 5:00 in the evening. [[20.30]] So what Zsolt Semjén succeeded was not successful for Lajos Szűcs, Mohosz did not make the stand for the Hungarian fishing society that should have been done. This is deeply outrageous, so I would ask my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, and the President of Mohos, to stand on his heels and make it possible for Hungarian fishermen to fish at night, once again, in compliance with strict epidemiological measures. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-07-240	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The countryside wants to live." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-07-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I thought we couldn't just walk past the Uzbek-Hungarian Potato Research Center. It is not because I, too, would like to mock him, of course, there are plenty of things, if we add that, let's say, our fellow members of the government like to buy potato votes on a regular basis. No, I'm really trying to shed some light on this story from the point of view of domestic potato growers. In the past, I can say that our country was a potato power, we were able to produce 3 million tons at peak time. This has now fallen to 300,000 tons, or tenths of it. To understand what this means from the point of view of the Hungarian consumer, an average Hungarian citizen consumes potatoes around 30 kilograms per year, and if we look at the fact that we are able to bring in, say, 240 grams per hectare, then it is clear that with the 300 thousand tons of production mentioned, we have about the same shortage. So today, Hungarian people can roughly cover half of their own needs from domestic potatoes; if we add that this is also exported from potatoes produced in Hungary, then this number shows even more sad. Therefore, with such data, it is right to ask why we in Uzbekistan have to experiment with potatoes from public money, while, for example, within the framework of the University of Keszthely, there is a decades-long tradition of the breeding of domestic potatoes; while we know well what the problem is, it is felt that people in the profession have long drawn attention to the fact that this type of loss of production will occur and that this could indeed be corrected. So I think it would have been a lot better if we were going to use that public money, say, to help domestic farmers. What's the problem here? What could have caused this brutal decline in domestic potato production? On the one hand, the fact that due to the domestic climate, because of the increasingly extreme weather phenomena, it is increasingly possible to grow without irrigation, and now it is no longer safe to grow without watering. The vast majority of Hungarian production areas currently do not have an irrigability capacity of more than 95 percent, and most farmers are already excluded from the natural possibility of growing potatoes. So it would have been better to increase the rate of irrigability, for example, and there have been a lot of state promises before, and we have not seen much practical use and meaning for it so far. The other problem is the lack of market protection itself and the lack of an opportunity to join forces in many other areas of agriculture, namely that we have been waiting for the new cooperative law and the necessary other legislation for eleven years, and not to mention the resources. This is clearly the only way to manage a given community, a given product on the market in the long term, in a sustainable way, in Western Europe, in countries with a better agricultural history. Or, if I had to give you more tips on what they could have spent more on potato, there were also pests in the home fields, unfortunately, new species and types of fungi and other pests, which, in the absence of information, the defense is still very in its infancy. So let's just say it's worth investing much more in R &amp; D. So after that, I think we've gone around the issue of what could be used more than pumping this public money into Uzbekistan. I am also very sad about the fact that, for example, we are at the end of Europe in the quantity of potatoes that can be delivered per hectare. So as long as we are happy in Hungary that if we manage to bring 26 tons off a hectare, for example, 58 tonnes are not uncommon in countries that are farther west of us, they are often able to bring double down from one hectare even under worse conditions of production, which, as a matter of fact, radically affects and worsens profitability. So I just really wanted to give the government a few tips on what they should have spent this public money for. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi applauds.]]
u2021-04-07-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László Hajdu, MEP, DK Group, has applied for a post-meeting speech: the anti-inoculation left? No! Reckless and incompetent government! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Yeah, it's been said here several times today, that's the keyword composition, that's the anti-vaccination on the left. In this regard, I would like to make some points here after the agenda. On the Saturday before the 15th of March, we had a survey, as my constituency is Rákospalota, Pestújhely, Újpalota, there is a majority on the left, so there is an anti-vaccination majority, and the same situation is in Újpesten, because a small part of the constituency also covers Újpest. Both sites were surveyed, and the anti-vaccination left came to become vaccination points, and one inspection was carried out and both areas were considered suitable for the vaccine and will be vaccinated here. So this anti-vaccination left has volunteered in this regard to want vaccination, and you will organise it. This was not successful at the time, the vaccines did not arrive, although Újpest was promised, and the doctors were waiting for him, this was already said here in the House, the doctors were waiting in the emergency room for the vaccine to arrive at eight o'clock, and everyone was sent home, and the vaccine did not arrive. Szombathely also led in a similar way by such an anti-vaccination left, they had a promise, and they did not get it. However, there was a turn of events, this inspection was warmed up, and now at Easter, Easter Saturday, Sunday, Easter Monday and today we became rennet centers from one moment to the next so that we received a telephone on Friday, which should be prepared and mobilized by telephone, the vaccination of more than a thousand people had to be done in four days, we became rennet centers, and as an Easter bunny, as a gift, we received the rennet center tasks. We had Easter on Saturdays and Sundays and Easter Mondays, because we managed to mobilize them. But the solution to that is that many people arrive not at that time, but half an hour before. So, basically, this anti-vaccination district majority said that today the government's ministers of state spoke in a series of anti-vaccination lefts so that as many people as possible could get their vaccinations; while at the same time, the general doctors started the same task earlier, to a lesser extent than on this holiday weekend. [[20.40]] I would just like to say, for the record, that the people of New Palota, Crab Palota, Pestújhely, but I can also say that the people of Újpest are excited that this anti-vaccination left sees such things as the hunting world exhibition has a budget of 50-60-70 billion forints, it sees such things as huge gates made of ten tons of deer antlers. We also see and read that the rescue service that is now serving a great deal of service here during the epidemic is operating as a nationwide network of only 53 billion. It is also offensive to say that the left is anti-vaccination, because I do not want to give national examples only in view of my constituency, but I would know that we have posters in 60 or a few places to inoculate yourself. Personally, I'm in the local newspaper, on the local television, to get you vaccinated. Citizens from the District and known district were asked to mobilize people, to leave, to register, and then to listen to the fact that the left is against vaccination, of course unfairly, so I gave you the title of the anti-inoculation left? I've been thinking about something like this. Balázs Barkóczi, a spokesman for DK, on television, on radio, in various small videos of Facebook, constantly says that DK is a pro-vaccination party, and therefore we ask you to come to the polls, so, despite this, that I reject it on behalf of all left-wing parties. [[A round of applause from DK and the independents.]]
u2021-04-07-244	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member László Varju, DK Group also applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-245	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. We are in the lucky position once again that life is the best screenwriter, because here, among other things, luck and schedule have led to the XV. After the district, after Rákospalota, as a representative of Újpest, I can follow my fellow Member, László Hajdu, on this subject, in which I would like to continue this thought, because we are all affected by what is happening now. Perhaps there is nothing else to talk about today on its own; everyone is really concerned about the consequences of the coronal virus epidemic and what is happening around us. At a time when 22,000 people have been killed by such an epidemic in themselves, when, in Newpesten, if we consider this to be so, more than 200 of us and of us directly have left the district alone, I think we need to think about why this departure was really necessary. Fate would have given them more time, but a government defense that proved powerless against the virus couldn't help them. That is why I finally consider it a decision and a step that took place this weekend when the mass vaccination began in Newpesten. The district provided the conditions weeks ago for this to happen in the clinic, but in order for this to start, it would have been necessary and necessary for the vaccinations that finally arrived. I don't understand, and I don't know, I don't think I'll ever understand why it was necessary for this to happen only after nationalization, because professionals have been available for weeks, the place itself and the way to start, but we can say finally. However, last week it was revealed that the weekend behind us and the weeks that had been in preparation resulted in the vaccination of more than 3,000 Újpesti at five vaccination points during the Easter period. The process was, of course, in accordance with health standards, and I am therefore pleased that this time has been used. I'm very proud that the staff of the clinic did their job with their usual professionalism, disciplined for which the whole district and I think I personally appreciate what happened here. It is a compliment to those who contributed, and the residents, those who wanted to prevent their disease, those who came for the vaccine, those who are concerned about their health, could indeed have obtained this vaccine. But let us also add that Újpest continues to recognize those who work on the front line, and therefore the general practitioners and the general practitioners who contributed this weekend received special support. There can be no doubt that they deserve all the recognition, because as healthcare workers in Újpesten and in the country perform beyond their power, it is thanks to them that this country has not yet collapsed, so we owe infinite gratitude to all of them. Yesterday, Mayor Tibor Déri and I visited the workers at a suitable time, thanked them for their efforts, but we can be very proud of them because, without a complaint, they carry out their work in addition to their efforts with concern for their fellow countrymen. In addition to the thanks, we can help the most by respecting the restrictions, and by doing so, everyone is registering on the site where this is needed. I'm asking you to do this. The opposition is not anti-vaccination against any other celebrity or even strongly encourages registration. We are aware that there is only one way to prevent this epidemic, and I am asking every Újpesti and every Hungarian citizen to do everything for ourselves, our immediate family and our employees. I wish you all health. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from DK and the independents.]]
u2021-04-07-246	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Anett Bősz, DK Group, asked for a speech on the role of local communities in disease management. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Believe us that you see a non-predicted scenario when we are talking about the implementation of the excellent vaccination plans of three constituencies, but I also have to tell you that on World Health Day, it is particularly important to thank all those who are involved in the epidemiological defense, those who save the lives of our loved ones, and those who are certainly there in the last minutes, in addition to those who cannot be saved. The greatest thanks and thanks are due to them. A little over a year ago, we were all faced with a situation that we could not have imagined before. In the spring wave last year, the crowds of civilians moved to join forces with local governments, to provide care for elderly or sick people trapped in quarantine, perhaps young earners who had not worked recently. Retailers, or larger, gave us vegetables, bread, even unsold pastries the day before, and tried to maintain the relative standard of living of our unfortunate fellow countrymen. We could already experience the power of communities and the fact that the best answers to local problems can be given locally. Unfortunately, unfortunately, the government does not want to acknowledge this, which is why it constantly withdraws funds from the municipalities. There is, however, fellow Members, something that is not a question of money, and this is organisation and humanity, and I would like to briefly tell you about this today, because vaccination at Érden and Törökbálint is an extraordinary success. Experience in recent weeks has shown that much of the work that has been done between the heads of local offices has indeed been worth it. The efforts in which these local leaders could otherwise tell each other if they thought it was a mistake in someone's work, so that the error could be corrected before the first citizen, for example, was vaccinated. I think it's an amazing, good example that if we leave the big politics out of the whole vaccination plan, we dare to say that if something doesn't work, we dare to say that if we think something might fail in that form and we can look for each other at local or local level, then we can achieve amazing success together. [[20.50]] I have to say, now that mass vaccinations have begun in the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic, we need to know that every national and international crisis has a human face. They receive vaccinations for people who are grandpas, grandmothers, chronic sick brothers, husbands and wives, future mothers. I was astounded and touched myself when, for example, an elderly couple of friends received the vaccination at the Romics László Health Institute, of course, they went out to the Danube with masks and proper protective equipment, and we were still waved on the fence, and they were happy to say that they had received the vaccine, that they would soon have the freedom. I think it's something you should always keep in mind. I also see that health workers in Érden and Törökbálint, who are fighting for these people and those who will be vaccinated in the future, perform an amazing service. Thank you so much for that. I think that everyone involved in this process should have the highest recognition. Joining my fellow Members, I have to say that it is really not worth the great political battle, it is really not worth putting a stamp on anyone that is anti-vaccination, not even because we need to know that there are fates behind these vaccinations. By the way, there are fates behind the ventilators. There are also fates behind those processes when the epidemic breaks loose, and there are fates behind it if the epidemic is contained. It's definitely in our mutual interest. I think we need to know that the political battle in which the government bakes on the opposition that it is against vaccination is extremely damaging public confidence. In the countries and societies where the government, citizens and health workers trusted each other, the most effective protection was the disease control, my fellow Members. I hope that we can be a little wiser in the future here in Hungary as well. Thank you for listening.
u2021-04-07-248	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Varga, DK Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech:. But, why? They rot in the basement with the scouts and the raiders, and the ventilators for 300 billion, but the University of Debrecen bought four more with the title for safety. You have the floor.
u2021-04-07-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We thought we'd seen everything. There's no way down. We saw the national oligarch, pointed out by the Prime Minister, who suddenly lost most of his assets and disappeared. We saw his childhood buddy write, but he can barely speak, pointed out by the Prime Minister, and in ten years he went to the club of the richest people in the world. We have seen stromanes who are freshly grinning public limited companies, and with this freshly grinned company they are creating billionaire businesses with the Hungarian government bringing in Chinese vaccines, by far overpriced them. But we have seen stooges, who have also brought in machinery or equipment that appears to be a billionaire with a hundred billion-dollar business. But there are still surprises, as the University of Debrecen again buys ventilators, which was published in the EU procurement bulletin just a few weeks ago. On average, you're happy because you're saying it's probably because they need it, because they need it, you know the situation, what's in hospitals right now. But I'm not familiar with NER's subordination and subordination, informal and information channels, but I'm suggesting that the leadership of the University of Debrecen has also learned about the Chinese breathing machine business that's been causing a huge scandal in recent months. Since we are talking about one of the country's most affected health institutions at the University of Debrecen, where many covid patients are being cared for, I think it is right to assume that they have also tracked the Orbán government's business, during which a number of stooges from China acquired 16,000 respirators or at least the means they said for multiple times the real price. We know that many of these machines can be considered breath support rather than a ventilator, and that very many Chinese machines have not been provided with only Chinese instructions and manuals. But obviously there is a device among them, so let's advance the trust to the government, which is also operational, can be used, and we have all the documents to use it. On the other hand, it is a deep secret that these machines are used at all, where they are. We don't know who they are or what they're used for, and we don't know what they're used for. We have been informed from the media that these devices, which are currently dusting in a basement for 300 billion forints, are now being used by the State Department as a vacuum cleaner and are trying to sell them, even deep below the purchase price, to someone. Hopeless. They're already handing out these machines for free. In other words, the Orbán course is supposed to become a major breathing machine power, which would also assume that every medical facility will be transferred without any special request from machines that are already in use in a basement dusting. There are a lot of questions about the machines purchased by the University of Debrecen, because the university is not the government, it is already existing, and as I said earlier, it is hiding in a basement, but it uses brand new machines, but it buys four devices from an external company, Hoge Systems Kft. for a net value of HUF 16.3 million. I asked questions to the heads of the University of Debrecen, and I didn't get any answers, so I'm asking these questions now, although I know I won't get any answers here either. Why doesn't the University of Debrecen use one of the more than 16,000 devices acquired by the government and still powdering in boxes somewhere? Have you informed the Hungarian health government that the University of Debrecen needs respirators? Did you expect the government to provide the University of Debrecen with 16,000 machines purchased from the special Chinese business? Where are the government-built ventilators, anyway? It's crazy what's going on in this country. It's crazy what we see every day. Hundreds of people die every day, more than 20,000 deaths, yet we see hospitals looking for respirators from the European Union while somewhere 16,000 respirators are dusting and going down without being used. I have a lot of questions. I'm afraid we won't be able to answer those questions. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-07-250	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik Group, applied for a speech with the title "Children Without Children" in Fonyódliget. You have the floor. [[21.00]]
u2021-04-07-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Walking through the Fonyódliget, the closed gate of the children's camp can be read as follows:. Please note that the beach section is not working, the possibility of bathing in Balaton is not guaranteed. Well, there is nothing surprising about the second part of the call, as I confess masculinely, so at the beginning of April I do not feel an insatiable desire to jump into the eleven-degree Hungarian sea, but it is all the more interesting how children have not been camped in the children's camp since 2018. What's going on in Fonyódliget? Well, the Fidesz government didn't seem to be noble in simplicity five years ago, this unparalleled, one-and-a-half-kilometer-long, Balaton beach property, which, by the way, also has a sports complex, was simply transferred free of charge to the property of a foundation, a foundation that was founded in 2013, so they couldn't have considerable experience in child camping, but it is more visible that the members of the board are connected to the current governing parties. For example, there is Mr Tibor Hornyák, who has become known for it now pay attention. That he rented a swimming pool house for 110,000 forints a day. So again, he rented a swimming pool house not for a month, but for 110,000 forints a day. The people of Somogy believe that this kind of urizing lifestyle and the recreation of disadvantaged children are not, in a subtle way, compatible. So the question arises how Tibor Hornyák and some members of the board could afford this luxury lifestyle. Well, from the 13.5 billion that the European Union and Hungarian taxpayers have added to this foundation for the recreation of children, which, by the way, I mentioned, has not been allowed to spend any of the money on Fonyódliget since 2018? What is going on in Fonyódliget now, and if it is not from the noise of children, then why is this camp loud? Well, please, it's loud with the noise of machines, cutting down trees, dozers, clearing cabins off the property. You won't find out whose companies work there. The companies of Lőrinc the Butcher. Lőrinc Mészáros is an oligarch and his associates who have already purchased half of the Balaton Beach as a small ball, and it does not have to be presented anyway, all of this is done with good Hungarian taxpayers' money. In short, just to make it clear to everyone what happened: a state property worth HUF 17.5 billion, a national property will be transferred free by the Fidesz government to a Fidesz-related foundation, 5 billion forints of public money will be refurbished, otherwise it will also be given the opportunity to recuperate underprivileged children from a small amount of HUF 13.5 billion. And foam on top of everything else on the cake: according to my information, in 5-15 years, this foundation will be free to dispose of this property, which may mean that it can sell or use the former pioneer camp, the former children's camp in Somogy County for other purposes. This is outrageous. We're not gonna let this happen. We would also like to know when the children's camp in Fonyódliget will finally be suitable for camping, who is responsible for the slippage. Despite the promises, how is it possible that children who are underprivileged may not be on vacation there this year? We would also like to know who is responsible for the fact that the municipality of Fonyód and many local businesses that provide jobs and livelihoods to Somogyi people have been losing significant income for years now because of the closure of the children's camp. We would also like answers to these questions. Thank you for listening.
u2021-04-07-252	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
