u2021-03-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 7th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the meeting will be Mr. Attila Móring and Bence Tordai. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will start today with speeches before the agenda, then about 12.15-13.45 p.m. on questions, then about 13.45-14.45 p.m. on instant questions and answers, then V/15298 on the use of EU resources in the 2021-2027 cycle. There will be a political debate, and we will conclude the Parliament meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, Mr. notary, asked for an address on current matters. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I didn't want to speak before today about the epidemic. [[István Szilárd Németh: It is useless!]] But I think that we cannot, contrary to Szilárd Németh's interrogation, do not do that we are not dealing with the epidemic, when today we also said that Hungary is the world leader in the deaths of Covid in terms of the last week's data. [[István Szilárd Németh: And you in the lies!]] Once again, especially for the consumer of party-state media, who are not aware of this in public media, public media, public radio, are not informed of the various publications of the Fidesz media, they see that the greatest threat to the country is the brawl of the left, they see that the greatest danger to the country is that some public figures share with others in quotes, radical thoughts such that the family is the family. In fact, the most serious problem facing the country is obviously the epidemic, and the readers, students and viewers of the Fidesz media are not aware of it. They are not aware of the data that, for example, if we go to the Our World in Data website, so to the World Data website, we can see that the number of deaths due to Covid is the highest in Hungary over a million people in the last week, and nearly 20 out of one million Hungarians lose their lives every day. Let's be fair, this is not only a Hungarian phenomenon, and a few tenths behind us is the Czech Republic, and in the first six countries of Central Europe and the Balkans, but they only have to lose 10-15 lives per million per day in quotes. So what we see is that the worst situation in the world is the Covid situation in Hungary, and if we are looking for the reasons for this, we must go back to the Prime Minister's statement in September, who said that the success of the defense is measured in human lives, and that the responsibility for this defense is borne by the government and, above all, personally. If you took on this responsibility then I don't understand why you're hiding from responsibility now, why you're trying to pass on responsibility to everyone else, why you're not willing to make a mistake, not a little, but a huge one, and not at one point, but three times over the last few years. After all, Viktor Orbán suffered his first fall against the epidemic when the epidemic did not even break out when he treated healthcare with residual principles and not as a strategic sector when he drew the money out of it for a hundred billion. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're lying!]] We see that Hungarian health spending is 2-3 per cent lower than the average of developed countries or EU countries. This means that thousands of billions of forints have not been put into health care in the last 11 years, and the result is that the epidemic has found the system in such a weakened state, and part of that is that there is no Ministry of Health and that there is a perfectly inadequate minister at the head of EMMI. The second fall of Viktor Orbán was during the second wave, when he said that Hungary had to work, and he did not realize that the economy could function if we protected people's lives. He thought it was a game or a game, and therefore he was delayed with the measures, which is why Hungary was already in the second wave in a beating place in terms of deaths. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're lying again!]] And Viktor Orbán suffered his third fall against the epidemic, and we all suffered it when he thought that just because the vaccines slowly start running around, this wave will not cause serious problems, so there is no need for substantive measures. We see that the vaccine alone will not save you, nor will the non-use ventilator save anyone. The consequences of procrastination and weakness in anti-punishment measures and amatricism are evident. Today, there is not much of a person in Hungary who does not have a Covid dead among his family and friends, or someone who has had very serious symptoms of the crisis or of this disease. So Viktor Orbán, if he stands by his commitment in September, must assume this responsibility personally and as the head of his government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you threatening me?]] I'm not gonna demand that you resign, because in times like these, the Prime Minister doesn't resign, and he's gonna give up his life before power anyway, but let's just say, at least excuse Miklós Kásler. His lack of protection will not be noticed by anyone, since he has not played a meaningful role so far, and at least at that time they would be able to meet this responsibility somewhat. I look forward to your reaction. Thank you very much. [[11.10]]
u2021-03-22-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Csaba Dömötör will respond.
u2021-03-22-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As far as health budgets are concerned, let me just say to you the fact that, compared to 2010, compared to the people you joined up with, 915 billion more goes to health; and then we have not yet talked about the extraordinary expenses incurred in connection with the epidemic. As far as statistics are concerned: all statistics relating to the corona virus are public; international summaries referred to by you, which are related to Hungary, can be prepared because the Hungarian authorities publish this. With regard to statistics, I would add that these statistics are carried out differently in some countries, for example, not every single death associated with a coronal virus is accounted for everywhere. You know that very well, however, I see that they are hunting statistics that you can claim to be the worst performer in Hungary. It's not an insult to us, it's an insult to health workers who have been fighting on the front lines for a year. And it's quite unfair that he insults a health professional from week to week who has decades of healing experience behind him and has saved more lives on his own than the sum of your fractions. It's completely unworthy! [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: What professional arguments...]] Sadly, however, the third wave is raging strongly in Europe and raging more strongly than the first or second wave. The necessary protective equipment and ventilators are available, but health institutions and healthcare workers are under a heavy burden. We want to thank them for being able to cope with the most difficult situations for a year. As known, the government extended the restrictive measures by one week. This will also help to ensure that the pressure on the health system is not increased in the next few days, as soon as possible, and the vaccination programme is crucial in this respect. It is a serious weapon that we have exceeded 1.5 million in the last week, more than 1.5 million people have been vaccinated in Hungary. In the next few days, this number will continue to increase. If it were true what you said about the vaccination program, you couldn't have vaccinated half a million Hungarians in ten days. And if we had taken what you demanded about the vaccines, hundreds of thousands less Hungarian people would have received the vaccine. I also hear that you have suggestions on rennet points. The Prime Minister has also said that we are telling you that there is a shortage of vaccine, not of graft points. So if we can suggest something, if you want to do something about the epidemic, contact your friends in Brussels, and now, exceptionally, not the country, but pressure them to get at least the shipments they signed up for in time. In the meantime, the government will ensure that the lost quantities are replaced by other sources. And when you charge the medical burden at the health department, I can't help but notice that a few weeks ago, you demanded an immediate opening. At the beginning of the third wave. That's what MSZ wanted, that's what Momentum wanted, and that's what Jobbik wanted. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We wanted a consultation!]] After that, it is quite hypocritical to blame health management. If we'd listened to you, I'm pretty sure more people would have died. And let me remind you one more thing: not so long ago, you considered the purchase of respirators unnecessary, on several occasions. It's gonna take some time to get the government to deal with the ventilators. Don't you feel the enormous hypocrisy in this, Congressman? Well, no one's surprised that a opposition party is criticizing the government, but try to be consistent for at least a month, so there wouldn't be a sizable horse leg, which is about you guys just thinking about the election campaign. That's why they ignore any professional, equitable, and human considerations, and that's why they attack anything from the hip that's tied to the government's decisions. But the problem with that, honourable Member, is that the disease control is weakened. This is a big problem, but I still think that this country will cope with the epidemic despite the work of the mine on the left, it will succeed, and it will succeed without you. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, representative of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda.
u2021-03-22-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will also start today by thanking everyone who is working to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people in these difficult times. Today, we have heard the planned agenda, and it will be of great importance that, on the motion of the LMP and on the proposal of opposition fellow Members, an extremely important issue is presented to the Parliament: in the next period, there will be thousands of billions of development resources coming from the European Union, and the Government has failed to start a meaningful professional-social dialogue on this issue, and that Parliament should debate or debate about it. It is extremely important, despite the fact that we are in an extremely difficult situation now, in the most difficult period of the epidemic, it is very important that we talk about the use of these resources now, for several reasons. On the one hand, the country and the whole nation face terrible challenges, and there is a time squeeze. So, in particular, at the beginning of April, Hungary had to cancel its plans and expectations in this regard, and the government did not do what would have been its duty, did not make detailed plans, and did not bring them to Parliament, so the opposition was forced to take this step. Isn't it specifically the challenges we're facing? It can be seen that the Orbán government, which has been Regent for almost 11 years, has not been able to ensure that huge EU funds can be used effectively by the country. It has typically become a hotbed of corruption, fattening their own moonyards, distorting the economic structure, and failing to prepare Hungary in parallel with the 21st century. The challenges of the century. We can also say that the government, also due to poor quality governance, is creating a great deal of systemic problems, and a significant part of them have now come to light during the crisis, in the epidemiological situation. Here a lot of serious supply systems, utility systems, infrastructure systems are simply on the verge of collapse. We also need to say, and obviously we will have a lot to argue about, that the government's crisis management has practically failed, and this will only increase the crisis, increase the crisis and increase the set of problems that the country is facing. It is also very clear, for almost everyone in the government, that this recognition has not yet been shown, given the damage this economic crisis has caused not only to Hungary, to Europe as a whole, but also to a completely different economic policy, so we cannot go on after the epidemic in economic policy as we have done so far. And this, it would be very good if the government could finally recognize it, and this would appear in its actions. We believe that we need to start now, now we need to make meaningful decisions, making decisions to really prepare for the 21st century. The challenge of the century is to adapt to the risks of climate change and environmental destruction, and we really need to establish an economic policy, a patriot economic policy that can bring about a balanced territorial development, and finally, after the tragic exodus of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, everyone can manage in their homeland. At the same time, it needs to be able to adopt a completely different approach to governance, in a completely different way than the government that lies to the national one. I'd just like to give you a few details about that. It can be seen that since 2010, there has been an astounding degree of emigration, and when we are discussing this here in Parliament, it is with noble simplicity that the members of the government who declared itself national are saying that there is no problem here, but that the common labour market is working. On the other hand, we say that a policy must be pursued so that everyone can thrive in their homeland. We can also say that Fidesz is practically in the hands of great powers, and is now using Hungarian taxpayers' money to further strengthen China's economic dominance, hegemony and influence during such a severe epidemic. [[István Szilárd Németh: Whoa!]] And we say that we need to build an economic policy that meets the most important needs by local production or regional cooperation, not by transporting mass products from distant continents. We can also say that this government has degraded the country to such a assembly plant, kept workers in a vulnerable position, worked for low money; this has also resulted in a tragic migration. And we believe in high added value jobs, and well-educated and well-paid Hungarian professionals... [[Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Mr. Secretary of State is a little impatient, I can see that, but you will have to listen to what I have to say. So we can only imagine the programme of raising the country for well-paid, respected Hungarian workers. And Fidesz was not able to reduce the territorial difference, it was unable to get close to the regions that had fallen, and four Hungarian regions remain among the 20 poorest regions in the Union. [[11.20]] We say that this must finally be changed. This is the way to use development resources, and the only way to imagine the country's development is to not give up on the most difficult peripheral areas, as you have done, and give the future to the smallest settlements. Allow me to say that it is one of the most important public services and that what you have done is a disgrace in the field of water services. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Practically the most important public service, the provision of healthy drinking water, has already been put at risk because of you, and this is particularly important to draw attention to [[The president's ringing several times.]] 'Cause it's World Water Day. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2021-03-22-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond.
u2021-03-22-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Allow me to begin with a general remark and respond to your general geopolitical comment. There is a debate in the world about where the world order is headed, whether we have actually come to a world order without a world order, or whether we have to get used to a bipolar world order, a new Cold War for small and medium-sized countries like Hungary. This debate is taking place; no one can see into the future. It is quite clear that you take a specific position in this debate. You would turn your back on the Eastern countries and turn your back on emerging countries, such as China and Russia. Soul on it! This is a geopolitical conflict or geopolitical dispute that has a place here in Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to one thing: that we can instigate against the opening up of the East, say, against China in a political sense, and say that Hungary should shut itself down from the Eastern countries, while, as State Secretary Dömötör said with a speech earlier, we can stand in second place on the rank list of grafting in the European Union because we also use Eastern vaccines, I think this is more than outrageous. [[Intercoms from the LMP benches.]] Think of the significance of your actions, your words. With these geopolitical positions, it constantly undermines the country's eastern relations, undermines the control of the virus, because we disagree [[Dr. László Loránt Keresztes: Don't lie! Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] With Bence of Turda, we think vaccination is the answer. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] So the key to protecting against the virus is to have as many safe vaccines as possible, as many as possible. [[Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes: We always told you, Mr. Secretary of State! That's not what I'm talking about! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And when you continue to act against Eastern relations here in Parliament, you are undermining this activity, this nation strategy goal. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Extinguish!]] The second question is economic performance. Of course, all criticism is justified, this is the role of the opposition, but I would recommend one thing to your attention, because there is also a general standard here. There is a ranking among EU Member States on how we fight the coronal virus, how we fight the effects of the economic crisis. [[András Tállai: István Hercsik!]] It is clear here that if we look at the change in gross domestic product in 2020, while the EU average is more than minus 6 percent decline, Hungary is in the fourteenth position; it is better than the EU average, by 5 percent. Spain, Italy, produces around 10 percent results. If we look at the growth prospects for the following year and the following year, then the situation is reversed. According to the EU, Hungary will fight the effects of the economic crisis much better in 21 and 22 respectively. Much more efficiently! Contrary to what you have said, the EU average for this year and for the following year is 3.7 and 3.9 percent, and the European Union, which has never been explicitly acceptable to us, is constraining, at least in these forecasts, is expecting economic growth of between 4 and 5 percent. In addition, unemployment figures are also key. I would also like to suggest that there is an EU average: 7.3 percent, while Spain, Greece, Italy, Sweden, is 8-9-15-16 percent, and the Hungarian figure is 4.1 percent. So when we accept all criticism and, of course, the role of opposition parties [[Gergely Harvesto, laughing: That's what you're famous for! Demercation and intervention in opposition benches The president is ringing.]] To be critical, but when these criticisms are not on the facts and they are not on reality, there is a serious problem. We will be debating a lot today on the use of EU funds. I am pleased that Hungary will be one of the largest beneficiaries of the budget for the next period, both in the budget for 2021-27 and in the so-called EU recovery fund. And let me finally tell you the nine priority axes that we are thinking about. There are large overlaps between what you have said and what these priority axes contain in the case of RRF. Demography; public education; reform of universities; catching up settlements; water management; sustainable, green transport, energy, i.e. green transition; circular economy; digitalisation; health. So, before you drag these programs into the swamp of everyday party politics, I'd like you to think about what your priorities are, and if there's a match, I think there's a match. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then support the government's policy in this direction. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. The vice-president of the DK Group, Mr.Gergely Arató: the case of Viktor Orbán with the title of reality also came forward before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-9	Let me begin by speaking on behalf of all of us when I say that we owe thanks to health workers, who are today struggling to exert their power in a situation where the government has basically led the country into a national disaster. I mean, this government can't even face reality. I will quote to you a few quotes from Viktor Orbán. On 12 September 2020, on the basis of the propaganda paper Magyar Nemzet (Hungarian Nemzet), he declared that the success of the defense can now be measured in the number of deaths and lives saved. Do you know what's going on with the number of deaths? Last week, most people in Hungary died in proportion to the population in the world, out of 192 countries. That's how you save lives. The situation is four times more serious than in the European Union and three times more serious than in Italy, which is often mentioned as a terrifying example. If protection were as successful in Hungary as I say it once again in Italy, 860 of these people could have been saved from the 1310 people who died in Hungary last week in a coronal virus. Last September 16th, the Prime Minister on Facebook said: "Everyone can relax. If you catch this disease, we'll cure you. Since this pompous declaration was made, 18,000 of our compatriots have died. By comparison, in Austria, which is supposedly the lab we're following, 9,000 people died during that time. Every second Hungarian person who died in recent months would have survived if protection was Austrian. On December 18th, the Prime Minister said that today the conditions for an average, national, full vaccination over a week are met. If we had to inoculate everyone over the weekend, we'd be able to do that. And what's real? On the weekend of March 6-7, 74,000 people could not be vaccinated, the vaccination plan or lack thereof was in chaos. On 12 February, Viktor Orbán said in Kossuth Radio, once again I quote literally: If a few hundred vaccines fall off a truck, there must be a Hungarian raider who will catch it. In comparison, the truth is that you have not ordered 1 million 700,000 Moderna vaccines from the EU framework. [[Dr. Pál Völner, Csaba Dömötör: December! December!]] And here you can say all kinds of fictitious numbers about when that would arrive. [[Dr. Pál Völner: In December!]] But the reality is that what they don't order will certainly not arrive; the Danes, the Germans, the French who asked for it will receive it! [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're Goebbels!]] On 14 March, Viktor Orbán said that I quote again: "We are good, and we will not ask for help from abroad, but rather help. In the meantime, according to the information of the Hungarian Medical Chamber county organizations, it is now necessary to decide in hospitals who is to be put on a ventilator and who is not. Because it's not about the machine, it's about having a nurse and having a doctor. You chased away 4,000 health workers in the middle of the epidemic. This was then the case. [[11.30]] Last Sunday, the Prime Minister said in his radio interview that I had seen in November that there would be a great deal of trouble. For the record, in November, too, there were three thousand deaths that month, but if the Prime Minister really saw in November that there was going to be a big problem, then why did they start a national consultation on the opening in February? Last week in Parliament, the Prime Minister replied to my question: Brussels is ordering, delivering, distributing the vaccine, and the vaccination is not moving slower because it is not organised, but because there is no vaccine. [[Intercoms: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. According to EU rules, the Hungarian government orders, delivers and distributes the vaccine. [[Intercoms from the pro-government lines: They already admitted that they didn't.]] And there are 600,000 vaccines in the warehouses that you won't give. That's how you managed to do it. [[Interjection from the pro-government lines: That's for the second.]] I'm warning you not to bother answering a lie like we're rooting for the virus. If that were the case, we'd be quiet and watch you guys suck. That's why we're telling you to stop the progandah of success and finally start working and saving lives. Today, representatives of the Democratic Coalition will confront the government with lies in all their questions. Now's your chance to admit it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And to finally deal with the defense. I look forward to the abuse of the appointed Secretary of State, the bounty must be paid. [[The president's ringing again.]] the multimillion-dollar reward they received when, by the way, people lost their jobs And small businesses, they're broke without income. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms: Your time is up in 2010! Don't yell.]]
u2021-03-22-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2021-03-22-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We may agree on one thing, although I am not sure that the effectiveness of the fight against the epidemic depends on the effectiveness of the vaccination programme. This is why it is a serious weapon that last week we have exceeded the number of 1.5 million, more than one and a half million Hungarians have been vaccinated, and in the next few weeks this number will continue to grow. You have now referred to the purchase of vaccines in Brussels. Brussels said that we should achieve 70 percent of the vaccine in months. Compared to this, I am telling you that the European Union's vaccination average is now 8.87 percent. Instead of 70%, 8 percent! The Hungarian is more than 16 percent, so ours is double the EU average, and you say that it is a collapse. If it's the Hungarian collapse, then tell me what the European is! Please tell me. We really can't find any words about you asking for a shipment of vaccine on the government that would have arrived in December. You know what I mean, man? ! December! If we'd waited for the deliveries in December, [[Intercoms.]] until then, people would have died. That's why you're campaigning. Come to your senses! The vaccination programme is progressing successfully in Hungary, we are second in the EU ranking, compared to which the left is constantly interfering with the vaccination programme. They ask for it from time to time, but not a day goes by without any evidence of it being revealed. In recent days, for example, the 18th century. The district mayor stood by the fact that no one in the district wants the Chinese vaccine. No one wants it. Then, within hours, it turned out that the locals didn't even know there was a way to get a vaccine. That's how the left fell with the latest sabotage. [[Noise, interruptions.]] And then they'll try to pin it all on the government office. It's a shame. Especially since this is not an isolated case, there is a settlement where the former left-wing candidate, who is a general practitioner, refuses to give vaccinations, because that is his conviction. So now we understand that this is the effect of letters sent to general practitioners by DKs not to administer certain vaccines. And if that were not enough, they also collected signatures against some vaccines, and at some point even published a resolution to ban certain vaccines in Hungary. It's a shame. And they also run anti-vaccination tour in the media. So nothing else happened but to try to undermine vaccination in Hungary in accordance with previous analytical statements Trust. And now they're able to say they're not anti-vaccination. It's a production that could fit even for the fall faction meeting. Assuming, but not allowing, the scenario that you've been pushing for, we wouldn't be in the vaccination program. The current vaccination curve is close to 1.6 million, and this is how many have been vaccinated in Hungary. [[Noise, interjections.]] That's how many people were vaccinated. The imaginary Gyurcsány curve runs much lower if it were to prevail, less than a million people would have been vaccinated in Hungary. The difference is nearly 600,000 people, so much less Hungarians would have immunity now or soon, it would be a disaster. It would be nice to be recognized, if you don't know very well that what you're doing is costing people lives if you gamble, at least take responsibility for it! And I'd like to respond to another event while we're here. You referred to the media, again insulting some psychics. DK's politician Agnes Vadai recently threatened a journalist in parallel to Rwanda's events. As known, hundreds of thousands of people in Rwanda have been victims of genocide. [[Noise, interjections.]] In addition to the fact that such a parallel is extremely tasteless, it shows that the threat of journalists on the left is not an isolated case, because recently the President of the Momentum spoke about banning journalists. Now, this is how the Gyurcsány boys and girls compete to please their boss for the production, who, by the way, threatened to make people who disagree. If these threats were to be addressed by a pro-government politician, you would have had trouble in this Chamber with your mouth smacked, international-funded activists would have organized protests, and one of the great liberal international TV stations would have reported it long ago, and there would have been an extraordinary analysis of the deterioration of Hungarian freedom of the press anyway. But now you say it, and it's quiet. It's quiet. [[Noise.]] It's so quiet, you can almost hear the cricket chirping. This scale of duplicity has already been used to, but one of the reasons we ask is that we should not be taught about democracy, because you have not changed anything since 2006, where such threats have otherwise been applied in practice. We're not gonna let them do it again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. The vice-president of the MSZP Group, Mr Tamás Harangozó, also applied for a speech before the agenda with the title "Ongoing issues." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Quotes: -Hungary measures the success of defense in human lives. This was said by Viktor Orbán on 4 September 2020. Today, 18 451 people died in Covid in Hungary. There are 11,276 people in the hospital, and 1340 of our countrymen are on a ventilator. Unfortunately, according to statistics for the last week, the number of deaths in Europe is one of the worst. On the basis of these objective figures, the Hungarian government's defence against the epidemic is a sad and tragic failure even by Viktor Orbán's own standards. Therefore, there is no reason for their instructive, condescending, self-politicating communication. Rather, we need modesty and a change in their policy, fellow Members. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In fact, with the weak forints they steal money from people's pockets, as people who live on wages, salaries and other contributions have less forints than they can buy in shops, pensioners' benefits are less. The weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people, the weaker forint means a weaker state, weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. Orbán said this when the euro was HUF 264. Currently, one euro costs nearly 370 HUF. Viktor Orbán and his right-hand man, György Matolcsy's exchange rate policy, even by Viktor Orbán's own standards, is a serious and tragic failure. Therefore, there is no reason for their self-politicising, condescending, pompous communication, but it would be necessary to reconsider and change their policies in this area as well. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The state wins at higher fuel prices, according to Fidesz, either the excise duty has to be drastically reduced by 20 percent or the tax on petrol. Orbán also said this when there was 236 forints of fuel. Today, the average price of petrol is HUF 435. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Government debt is not an economic problem, but an enemy that if we don't defeat it, the enemy will defeat us. This was also said by Viktor Orbán after the change of government in 2010, when the government debt was 80.2 percent. That was 81.2 percent by the end of last year. [[11.40]] In both areas, they failed according to their own standards, so there is no reason for their patronizing, instructive, pompous communication. It would be more about modesty and rethinking their policies. Last Friday on Kossuth Radio, Viktor Orbán said that he sent a message to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, families and young people to hold on to it, trust it, and then it will be good. But it's not a question of perseverance and trust. Make me understand that you can't do this without help. You have to change it. Why doesn't a Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneur deserve as much as the multinationals or their oligarchs? Why do they want Hungarian people to believe that they do not receive support or help, not even as much as their Slovak, Czech, Polish or Austrian fellow citizens? Why are you lying to them? That's what you get, but you can't, because you spend thousands of billions on completely different purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government Party, Government Actors in this room! We ask you to change your policy now. Change your bad choices now. First, stop the foolish spending, second, redistribute this money, and immediately give 80% wage support to employees so that both companies and people can survive! Donate non-refundable financial support to the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector, which, by the way, lived up to it last year, even if it had savings, now it is only rolling debt before it. Give the sick people 100 percent sick. Give the families a double lawn and a lawn. Reduce the excise duty on fuel if you think it's a good solution. Stop the weakening of the forint, the release of prices! Reduce college tuition and give at least 100,000 forints a month to people who have lost their jobs! And join forces with the local authorities. There is nothing more important than a safe vaccination programme in these days. Anyone who hinders this is not making a mistake, but committing a sin. Please do not do this again, for our common country, Hungary! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-03-22-14	Thank you very much, Congressman Bellozó. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2021-03-22-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Where left-wing governance leads, and what it really is when left-wing governance meets reality, was the 12-year anniversary of yesterday, when the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány lost so much support, social, political and economic support that it failed, it finally failed, because Hungary's history was one of the most unsuccessful and impertinent governments of the Gyurcsány government. We can remember 12 years ago there was crisis management, but the main cause of that crisis was precisely Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left-wing government. That's why they took money from people on the basis of crisis management, and that's why they took a month's wages from doctors and nurses, and that's why they took a month's wages from the cops and every civil servant, and that's why they wanted to introduce a visitation fee, hospital allowances and tuition fees, so they reduced the benefits of pensioners and everyone else, and they also raised taxes. This was what the left had done in the name of crisis management, and the more Hungarian people were put into misery. In recent minutes, we have heard from left-wing politicians how good it would be to have data on the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary like in Austria or Italy; specifically, these two countries, Austria and Italy, have said that they want to achieve such a level of Hungarian protection. Ladies and gentlemen, We can already see exactly how much more people died in the last year, in 2020, in the year of the coronal virus than in the previous year 2019 when there was no coronal virus, although we have seen that our fellow Member, Lajos Korózs, was able to provide Korózs virus data in the midst of his fake statistics for earlier years. But seriously, in this ranking, which looks at how much more people died last year than before, Hungary, among the 27 Member States of the European Union, contains the data at that time, even those of the United Kingdom, in the 9th place, in the 9th place. According to the statistics requested by the left, Austria is ranked 13th, Italy is 23rd; while the number of dead was around 11 percent, it is slightly higher in Austria, about 12 percent, and in Italy it is 18. These are the two countries that the Left has brought up here in Parliament today as an example of its desire to follow these countries. While in Hungary the grafting rate is more than 16 percent, in Austria it has barely reached 10 percent and in Italy it is less than 9 percent. And the politicians of the Hungarian left stand up here in Parliament, and they are completely irresponsible with countries in which both last year's mortality surplus and grafting data are much worse than in Hungary, by the way, left-wing politicians who have constantly demanded opening, opening and opening in recent weeks. From your party, Congressman, István Ujhelyi ran a race with András Fekete-Győr to want the opening more radically. We should open, think about it: the current government decision is too strict; we should review the government's decree of 11 November, which is what István Ujhelyi said literally. What situation would Hungary be today if we listened to István Ujhelyi and András Fekete-Győr, and a month or two ago there was a wide opening in this country? How many diseases a day, how many deceased could we talk about if the government had listened to the left and had taken such and similar measures? András Fekete-Győr: It is time to abolish the meaningless rules and start reopening Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is a pointless rule, he says, for measures limiting the spread of the virus, that he would have abolished it in February (Dániel Z. Karpát intervened.) , and he went on to say, "It would have been time to announce the facilitation of the restrictions," said András Fekete-Győr. (Daniel Z. Carpathian intervention) I would like to say to the better-speakers: their group leader, Peter James, said: "You must open; you must open, or you will be closed for good. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: And the consultation...?!]] That was the Jobbik's position a few weeks ago. Politicians who say today that it is regrettable that so many people die in Hungary and we agree on this; we all want fewer people to die, we all want fewer people to be infected, these politicians would have allowed the spread of the virus weeks and months ago. And now they're coming to Parliament, saying that the virus is spreading too much, and they're showing off with countries where there were more deaths last year, and fewer people have been vaccinated to this day. Is there any responsibility? Is there any encounter between left-wing politics and facts, honourable Member? And they say [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Is it necessary to help the economy? (The president's ringing. ) Why was the extension of the credit moratorium not voted then? And there's a long list of things they didn't support here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-16	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, also submitted a pre-meeting address:. What is the burden of the health system? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Members of the Council, State Secretarys. Here, most of the speeches before the entire agenda are about the Covid epidemic, the wave of infection, the management of the epidemic, and I will try to connect to the latter and take a more professional position. In my opinion, we agree that in the third wave, we are now seeing a much stronger death rate, a much stronger rate of infection. I think we also agree that the health system is under enormous pressure in hospitals as well as in the National Rescue Service, because if we look at the data of the last few days, more than 6,000 emergency tasks will be carried out by the National Rescue Service, including testing tasks. The capacity and performance of a healthcare system should always be determined by the number of doctors or nurses working in it. There is a professional minimum which must correspond to one class or hospital both during the epidemic period and during other periods. If this minimum condition is not met by hospitals or classes, then the class will be terminated and we will be able to see this in 2012 in the field of class closures and function transfers. The Prime Minister spoke of 1000-1400 intensive bed capacity in the first, second and third waves, so that we can save a lot of people. [[11.50]] Professor Merkely went a little further, he was talking about 2,000 intensive beds. Well, you know that, and I think you'll agree that hospital bed hasn't been taken care of yet. I also think we can agree that an ambulance hasn't saved a patient yet, only the person who worked in it is the paramedic, doctor and nurse, assistant and doctor who works next to the sick beds. Everyone's talking about intensive care. Anesthesiological and intensive therapy specialists are working in the intensive care department, one of whose tasks is intensive therapy, but another task is to anesthetize and anesthetic during emergency care. So they do double work during the plague, so their numbers are finite and halved. From the specialist assistants, everyone knows that today 1200 people are available in Hungary, and their work cannot be replaced. There are work processes that can be replaced, this is also a government effort, such as care. But you can't pass care on to masseurs, other class workers, like midwives, because it's a special profession. If you look at the available data, 11,276 patients are being treated in the hospital in Hungary today, and 1340 of them are receiving intensive therapy, this is the number of people being respirated, but there are also patients receiving intensive care who do not need to be respirated, but who do need intensive therapy. I also think we agree that this is a special profession. It doesn't matter what medicine comes into the vein, how the central vein is treated, or who in the case of a tube is treating the mouth and mouthpiece. There are specific tasks that can be handed over, as I have said. In recent days, we have seen that several hospitals, including the 60th hospital, and the Hungarian Medical Chamber Győr-Moson-Sopron County organization, have issued a call to recruit volunteers from civilian life, once again, from civilian life to intensive care in Covid. When you think about it, that's a problem. Why is that a problem? Because there is also a self-acknowledgment from the 60th hospital that there are very few professionals who can carry out this task, because it is impossible to redeploy nurses within institutions, because most of the hospitals are being supplied with Covid. The question arises of how they try to make up for it. In November 2020, I applied to the hospital in Győr, Veszprém and its lips, since my degree was rejected by an anesthesiological assistant, but with so-called excuses. Now, in the third wave that I've seen, the problem is even bigger, I've tried another round, a hospital has answered so far, the Zalaegerszeg, where the care has been solved, there is no human resources shortage, but the county hospital in Veszprém County already has it. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, can you help me to believe that if a person has the skills to do so, they will call him in and not reject him on political grounds. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-22-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Rig. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer.
u2021-03-22-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think there are many of us who thank you, as do all volunteers, who, either in the ambulance service or elsewhere, have really felt that the whole world is in a difficult situation and that we need everyone who can help us. You have done the same, and we thank you, like all other volunteers, for those who help with the care. I also think it would be good if some of your fellow Members from the Jobbik faction, let's say, whether your group leader or György Lukács, would listen to you sometimes and enroll in a professional or rhetorical course. Then maybe your faction leader wouldn't say things like African quacking and Chinese pharmaceuticals that are happening in Hungary. He said that if there's any Chinese stuff used to inoculate a million Africans or a million Chinese, then Hungarians should be good too. It's human experimentation and extortion. László György Lukács's colleague also said that they are turning Hungary into a Russian lab with an opaque background and uncontrollable supply. This vaccine has also been requested by several European countries since then. So your fellow politicians speak rather irresponsiblely, especially in relation to your previous words; but it would be worth standing up for you, too, when, say, Lajos Korózs and Timea Szabó attack the rescue service with a fake paramedic, or when, on the weekend, Ákos Hadházy falsely attacked the rescue service with false news, when they wrongfully slandered those involved in defense in Hungary. As you said, it is very important to have enough ventilator, hospital bed capacity. Fortunately, there can be no news in Hungary, there are no news that we have read months ago when patients were treated in parking in Italy, because they did not get to the hospital, they treated patients in hospital dining rooms, they started trains, they moved patients from one part of the country to another, or they even moved patients to another country. Such stories in Hungary, thanks to the preparedness of hospitals, are not precisely because we tried to prepare ourselves, with restrictive measures to buy time, and then prepare hospitals for the second and third waves. So at the moment, there are nearly 1700 beds equipped with a ventilator and 11,000 hospital beds waiting for patients who will be hospitalized in the next few days, in the next few weeks, so that everyone can receive the necessary care. You have also spoken, honourable Member, about the fact that one part is the bed and the ventilator and the other part is the doctor, the nurse who works in the hospital. In order to enable as many doctors and nurses as possible to deal with health care tasks and to be burden-free in administrative tasks or other non-medical tasks such as patient transport or other tasks, even soldiers appeared if necessary to assist in the care of the hospital's non-medical tasks. We also started a very comprehensive and intensive training course during the summer with personal and online opportunities, where precisely practical and theoretical knowledge could be learned by those who could later provide potentially coronal viral patients or patients with severe coronal viral disease. From the medical module of the training provided to healthcare workers, 3591 people and 9712 of the nursing module passed a successful final exam, so it was more than 3,500 doctors and over 9,700 nurses who now have additional knowledge of the care of patients with coronal viruses compared to what they knew a year earlier, 12 months earlier. This was our goal to ensure that as many people as possible have this knowledge. So not only are there machines, there are not only beds, but let's remember how the machines were attacked from the left. Not you, honourable Member, but those who are sitting with you in a pathologist, how you were attacked, how unnecessary and exaggerating is the purchase of a respirator that Hungary has done. But in the same way, the purchase of Chinese and Russian vaccines has been attacked, even though last week we have exceeded the imaginary rate that more vaccines have already come from non-EU joint purchases in Hungary up to last week, than we have received from joint purchases, i.e. more vaccine to inoculate and protect people from procurement outside the EU. This shows that the five vaccines are more than three. The left is constantly trying to prove that the three are more than five, and we are on that party, we have a conservative position that five is more than three. That is why we have confidence in vaccines coming from as many sources as possible, and we would like to get more than five in Hungary for the safety of the Hungarian people. It is extremely irresponsible, what left-wing mayors like Sándor Saniszló did most recently, who was proud to talk people out of giving themselves the vaccine. We see few politicians around the world who are proud on Facebook that their work has given the vaccine to fewer people. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Dr. János Latorcai, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, vice-president of the National Assembly, applied for a speech before the agenda: "The Day of Hungarian-Polish Friendship." You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2021-03-22-21	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Tomorrow, March 23, we are celebrating the day of Hungarian-Polish friendship, but unfortunately, in the grip of the crown virus, not in the way it should be and not in the way we want it to be. But it would be a great need to celebrate, especially in times like these in which we now live, because the feast is the food of the body and the soul. For only by gathering together with our loved ones and friends, we are able to truly remember and draw strength from this common memory, united in our souls and united in unity. [[12.00]] The celebration is always a confirmation that our lives are not a mere cycle, but there are moments in it when time is thrown out of its wheel and we can be part of something beyond us, our human existence. This year, unfortunately, conditions do not allow us to live the holiday in appearances, so today and tomorrow we can remember only in our hearts the historical pair of stars in Europe, which, through St. Adalbert, St. László, St. Hedvigen, St. Kinga, István Báthory, will guide the Hungarian and Polish people to our day. Our saints, our rulers, our struggles for national independence, our failed revolutions have been inextricably intertwined over the past centuries. The ideals for which we have shed our blood together here in Central Europe have forged our people into a common unity. Rákóczi wrote his famous manifesto on Polish soil before the launch of the freedom fight. In the 1848-49 War of Independence, the Polish legion fought for the Hungarian Revolution and independence with blood. Without the help of the Csepelians and the Weiss Manfréd works, it would have been impossible to imagine the miracle of Visula, the Hungarian borders opened to Polish refugees during the Second World War, or the labor uprising in Poznań, or our revolution in October 1956 and all our inspiring, system-changing movements rooted in them have also shown that the XX. We could count on each other in the years of the century's greatest hardships in our often hopeless or seemingly hopeless struggles. This is why Hungarian society regards Polish life in Hungary as a special value, who have enriched our country with many excellent artists, scientists, churchmen or two-handed workers in the last thousand years. We Hungarians and Poles are connected not only by our unique past, not only by our political successes in Central Europe, but also by the future and the most important challenges of the present. Unfortunately, as with the coronal virus epidemic, the disruptive trends of our time have appeared and have gained ground on the streets of Budapest and Warsaw in recent times. These ideas, which seek to overturn the basic standards of social co-existence, have not only appeared on the streets, but, unfortunately, have already reached our churches. The causes of the barbaric destruction of the Greek Catholic Church in Gödöllő just a few days ago and the attacks on the churches in Poland are certainly different, but their roots lead us back to the same place and point out that, besides our freedom and national sovereignty, protecting our Christian values has become our primary obligation. I sincerely hope that in this struggle we can count on each other's friendly help, and we can also trust that next year, we Hungarians and Poles will be freed from the grip of the epidemic, together with a pure heart, to remember our friendship based on unparalleled solidarity, mutual respect and respect for each other. God bless the Hungarian-Polish friendship! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-22	Thank you very much, Vice President Latorcai. On behalf of the Government, Mr Szilárd Németh will respond.
u2021-03-22-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Mr. Vice President. Dear House, Hungary and Poland are two oaks of eternal life, which have grown a separate strain, but their roots run far underground, connected and invisibly interlinked. Therefore, the existence and strength of one is a condition of another's life and health. The lines of Stanisław Worcell confirm, as Vice-President János Latorcai pointed out, that our history has been connected on countless points over the last thousand years, and the two peoples have always been able to count on each other. Thus, in 1920 in the Polish-Soviet war, during which our Polish brothers who regained their independence after 123 years were supported by the Hungarian ammunition shipment from the Weiss Manfréd works in Csepel. This aid also contributed to the victory in Warsaw on 15 August 1920, which lives as a miracle in Vistulas in public consciousness and became a symbol of the protection of Polish statehood. We Hungarians, however, can never forget the help that our Polish friends provided us in 1956 with voluntary blood donation and relief supplies. Several shipments from Szczecin have arrived at Csepel. In the town of the district, a special stamp was printed in honor of the Csepelians, with two interlinked hands and the names of the two cities. In December 1956 protests started in Szczecin. As an expression of their solidarity with the Hungarian freedom fighters persecuted and murdered by the treasonous communist regime and as a protest against the Soviet occupation of our country, our Polish brothers slashed, set fire to, and destroyed the Soviet consulate. These events remind us of the statue of the Szent Imre Square in Csepel, which was set up in 2016 in one of the most beautiful areas of Szczecin on the 60th anniversary of the rebellion. In addition to Szczecin, other Polish sister towns are also associated with Csepel, including Kielce and Wołomin. We consider happy Father Jerzy Popiełsko, the Polish Catholic priest who fought against the communist oppression with the combined power of prayer and action as a common hero of the Polish and Hungarian people. The tragedy of the martyr priest, who is fighting for Christian national freedom, human dignity, Polish families and who has been tortured and murdered by communists, is inextricably interlinked with the 20th century. The Calvary of Central Europe of the century. It is worth to keep in mind today the message of the martyr Father Jerzy, who has spent his entire life:. Zło dobrem zwyciężaj! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2007, 23 March is the official day of Polish-Hungarian friendship. Of course, in order for such a long-standing inter-national relationship to function in everyday life, the work of prominent personalities and organizations who do tirelessly every day to cultivate Hungarian-Polish friendship and organise our joint events is essential. I thank the Hungarian-Polish friendly section of the IPU and, in particular, its President, Mr János Latorcai, for his work going beyond Parliament. Allow me to specifically highlight and thank Dr. Lászlóné Halina Csúcs, the first ethnic advocate of the National Assembly, for doing and doing so for Polish-Hungarian relations, and I congratulate you on your medal, the Knight's Cross of the Hungarian Order of Merit, which you took over on 15 March this year. Dear House, Last year we were preparing for a week-long celebration in Csepel in relation to Polish-Hungarian friendship, but we could not hold it because of the coronal virus epidemic, and during the massive attack of our invisible common enemy, which is breaking our lives and our freedom, we can only celebrate this year together in spirit. However, just over the centuries, it has been proven that there is no epidemic, no temple-shattering mob, and followers of any liberal-fascist ideals. [[Péter Ungár: Yay!]] Nor can the Hungarians and Poles shake their common love of freedom, their faith in the nation, their Christian roots, so we will protect and defend our faith, our homelands and our families together, as in the past, now and in the future. God bless the friendship of Hungarians and Poles! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-24	Thank you very much, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dr. Barna Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman. [[12.10]]
u2021-03-22-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The whole world is facing an invisible but more dangerous enemy, the corona virus epidemic, but unfortunately Brussels is not dealing with the protection of people or the speeding up of vaccine purchases, but with political games and fictional problems. When people's lives are at stake, there is no room for political battles, we must seize every opportunity to get people immunity and restart the economy. Brussels has convinced us to give up the right to obtain a separate vaccine, to give this right to the Commission; they have said that it will go faster and better if we leave it to them. Everyone can see now that they have failed. Fortunately, the Hungarian government acted and did not fully rely on EU procurement. Our efforts are confirmed by the success of the Hungarian vaccination programme, and thanks to the Eastern vaccines acquired in recent weeks, we are second in vaccination in the European Union. We'd be in big trouble if the government hadn't ordered Eastern vaccines. While the Russian vaccine seems to want to produce half of Europe, the use of one of the Western vaccines has been suspended by several European countries, even though it has the seal of the Union. So much for the fact that it is not worth grading the vaccine on an ideological basis, there is no Eastern or Western vaccine. It is not enough that Brussels has screwed up the purchase of vaccines, and it turns out from week to week that shipments which have been committed or ordered do not arrive or do not arrive at the contracted quantity. There's something wrong with the distribution of vaccines. The Austrian Chancellor, who initiated an EU summit on behalf of five Member States, drew attention to the fact that despite the agreement, EU vaccines are not distributed in proportion to the population, some countries receive more and some receive less. That's not allowed. In Brussels, bureaucrats, instead of giving countries vaccines, where passport rules and false rule of law are used, but Member States are now expecting a vaccine from Brussels, not new bureaucratic rules. And if that weren't enough, they would not only hide vaccine contracts from the public, but even national governments would not be allowed to disclose them. Brussels failed in the case of the purchase of vaccines. Unfortunately, we see that every time there is a big, serious challenge that you should be dealing with for the last time, it was the migration crisis in 2015, Brussels cannot rise to the challenge and let the Member States down. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot go without saying that, meanwhile, the left continues its anti-vaccination campaign at home. Gyurcsány and the Gyurcsány boys say that Viktor Orbán is responsible for the epidemic. That's what the Gyurcsány who, along with the entire anti-vaccination left, has been blocking the defense. Nothing is expensive for them, including human life, when it comes to the expiry of the Hungarian national government leading in vaccination in Europe. They're number one in the world in extortion and bullshit, but they're nowhere in action. Remember: if it were on the left, there would be a lot less vaccine. They're chasing me against one vaccine or another. It is impossible to list all their defensive actions, but last time one of the left-wing mayors of the Budapest district sent back Chinese vaccines, putting the lives of Hungarians in jeopardy. Ágnes Vadai, one of the Gyurcsány Party's haters, perhaps working at the highest temperature, considered the day of Szekler freedom suitable for kicking again into foreign Hungarians in the epidemic situation. In recent weeks, he criticized the support of Hungarians across the border and feared the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, a representative who voted to take away the 13th month pension from all Hungarian pensioners. The left is not only blocking the protection against the epidemic and is digging against Hungary, but turning the Hungarian against the Hungarian again. The left remains anti-vaccination. People are constantly dissuaded from certain vaccines, bullshit, bullshit, and insecurity, the endangered elderly or sick person who does not accept the vaccine they offer is put in danger of life. People could die because of the Gyurcsány's anti-vaccination statements. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Fortunately, the left does not lead the country, and the national government is fighting the virus superhumanly, and Hungary is second in the EU in terms of vaccination rates. Thanks to everyone involved in the fight against the virus. Special thanks to medical staff for their heroic stand-up. Let's take care of each other. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer will respond.
u2021-03-22-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Perhaps let me start where you have finished: the most important thing is that today in Hungary there are 1 589 612 people, and by the time I say this, and when this meeting is taking place, several of our countrymen will probably have received the vaccine by now. Indeed, I would also like to thank everyone who is involved in this, doctors, nurses who put out, put out, and put out, this is the most important thing. Thank you for your hard work. The fact that there are so many vaccinated people in Hungary also means that we are in second place in the EU in terms of population-proportional grafting. In Hungary this is 16 percent, so 16 percent of Hungarians have been vaccinated. The EU average is somewhere around 8-9 percent. So we were able to inoculate about twice as many people as the EU average. We were able to achieve this result with the Eastern vaccines. Without Eastern vaccines, Russian and Chinese vaccines, we'd be in the deep end, and I'm sorry, we'd be at the bottom of the frog, at the EU average, where many others are suffering right now. I would like to remind you that China and I have agreed on 5 million doses of vaccine, and so far 1.1 million have already arrived in Hungary before the deadline expires. And with Russia, we have agreed on 2 million doses of vaccine, which has already come in at 420 thousand; Sunday, so yesterday at 250 thousand extra. Tomorrow is 180,000, and next week we're expecting 250,000 doses of vaccine. Now, what about Brussels? Everyone now knows that Brussels has ruined the purchase of vaccine. The President and Vice-President of the European Commission have admitted this, but it seems that for some reason this information has not come down to the spokespersons, because the spokespersons have now started to play that Brussels has nothing to do with it. Everyone knows, they confessed, and it's obvious that they pretty much ruined everything about buying the vaccine, but now they're saying we weren't even there. This is not so, not only because they admitted that they did not, but they do not because the other facts show, and we know that they did everything, they barely dredged information, they did everything in a tight circle, and then when the error comes out, they say that they weren't there, which, by the way, is shameful. As far as the Hungarian left is concerned, it was already here today that they said that we were conducting a human experiment on the Russian and Chinese vaccine. I'd like to bring some quotes here about the Russian vaccine. Bajoran Prime Minister Söder stated that Sputnik V should be authorised quickly and that a purchase contract should already be concluded, because it is partly better than the vaccines already authorised. The Socialist MEP Muller in Berlin said that given the lack of vaccine, Sputnik V could be part of speeding up vaccinations. This shows that somewhere there is a slightly fairer left than we do. Bajoran Minister of Health Holetschek said he'd be happy to have Sputnik manufactured in Bavaria. Federal Minister of Health Spahn said that Sputnik should be obtained quickly, and his ministry is already in contact with the Russian party. With all due respect, I ask whether all German leaders are conducting human trials, and all European leaders, Chancellor Kurz, Austrians and others, as you referred to, are all carrying out human experiments, or the Hungarian left lied. I leave the answer to those present and those who are watching us now. I would also like to mention that there is a left-wing mayor in Pestszentlőrincen, Mr Sándor Saniszló, although he may be strong, I do not see much respect in him, who has done nothing else, and I would like to draw particular attention to that, as he has implemented the Gyurcsányist plan. Because the mayors of Gyurcsányi stood up a few weeks ago and said they didn't want Russian and Chinese vaccines available in the districts and settlements they led. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Shame!]] The mayor did this, took away the opportunity, and they want to take away the opportunity from the Hungarian people in terms of vaccination. Please don't do this because you're playing with people's lives. Finally, I would like to mention, because there has been such a reference here in Parliament today, and I would like to draw the attention of the honourable left-wing Members to the possibility of constantly scolding Russia and China. [[12.20]] I would like to make it very clear that we are currently buying a life-saving vaccine from these countries. And when we buy a life-saving vaccine from Russia and China [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And someone is constantly scolding these countries, and I would like to ask you with due respect who you serve. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-28	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sianos, a Greek ethnic advocate, applied for a speech before the agenda. It's called the 200th anniversary of the Greek War of Independence.
u2021-03-22-29	Αξιότιμη Εθνοσυνέλευσ, αξιότιμε κύριε Πρόεδρε του Ουγρικού Κοινοβουλίου, αξιότιμε κύριε Πρέσβη της Ελληνικής Δημοκρατίας, αξιότιμοι Βουλευτέςκαι Εκπρόσωποι των Εθνοτήτων! Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Ambassador, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! On March 25, 200 years ago, the Greek people launched a war of freedom against the Ottoman Empire. The uprising of the Greeks is the 19th century. One of the most prominent national movements of the century, which has had a significant impact on the freedom struggles of several European nations, including the Hungarian nation. Following the occupation of Constantinople in 1453, the Greeks launched no less than 30 regional uprisings against oppression. In 1821 the revolution broke out, which rocked the entire Ottoman Empire. The international situation was also ideal, and the Greeks in the diaspora did not stand still. The largest Greek communities lived in Vienna, Pest and Trieste. The Austrian authorities were suspicious of the Greek freedom struggle, since a Greek success could have been encouraging for the people of the Monarchy. In Odessa the Filiki Etería was established, in Hungarian Friendship Society, whose revolutionary leader was Sándor Ipsilandi, a Greek lieutenant general of the Russian Tsar army in 1820. In February 1821 the uprising began in Havasalföld, which the Ottomans still suppressed, but the battle on the Peloponnesian peninsula became national. On March 25, the rebels took an oath, and their password was: "Freedom or death." They followed the thought of Fereos Rigas, a poet and a movementman executed in 1798:. It is better to live only a short hour of freedom than to wear the prisoner for forty years. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A Greek army of 100,000 faced the half-million-dollar army of Ottoman forces. All of Europe has come to know the names of the greatest Greek freedom fighters: Bouboulina, Diakotronis, Colokotronis, Karaiskakis, Kanaris, Miaulis and many others. In Hungary, too, the heroic struggle of the Greeks was at the centre of interest. Their lives were sacrificed for the liberation of the Greek people: Captain Dessewffy, György Járvay, Kristóf Laszky and many others. In 1828 the Greek National Assembly held on the island of Poros entrusted Joannis Kapodistrias, the Greek Foreign Minister of the Russian Empire, with seven years of governorship. The war of freedom ended permanently on 22 January 1830 when the great powers in London recognized the independent Greek state, whose state form became the kingdom. On 25 March, we are celebrating not only the beginning of the creation of the modern Greek state, but also the movement of independence that gives hope to the small peoples of Europe. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Government of Hungary, namely Mr Miklós Soltész, Minister of State for Church and Nationality Relations, for helping to renovate the Christian church on the island of Rhodes with a HUF 10 million grant. I'd like to present you with the official letter of thanks to the Greek island leadership. Thank you for listening. Ευχαριστώ πολύ για την προσοχή σης! [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-03-22-30	Thank you very much for Tamás Sianos' speech on Greek ethnicity. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to what has been said. He'll take over before then, I guess, that nice thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-22-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Speaker, Speaker Lady and Lords! In the history of mankind, there are prominent people and nations who, for centuries or even thousands of years, affect the development and development of other cultures, other nations. These include the Greek people, the Greek nation. Liberty, laying the foundations of democracy, establishing Western philosophy, passing on and preserving the teachings of the Jewish and later the Christian after polytheism, the widespread appearance of science, such as political science, mathematics, history, arts, wonderful works of literature, architecture and sculpture, either from the Hellenistic era, from the Byzantine era or from the Greeks. All of this still affects and influences the lives of today's humanity, as in sports, the tradition of the Olympic Games was revived and carried on by modern-day people. These values and historical ages were often threatened by destruction, occupation, centuries of conquest in the life of the Greek nation. One of these was the longest and most devastating in architecture, art, and human sacrifice, the conquest of the Ottoman Empire. The fall of Constantinople 1453 meant nearly four centuries of homage. The nine - year freedom fight broke out in March 1821. The freedom fight under the leadership of Prince Alexandros Ipsilantis liberated not only the Greek nation, but also other Balkan or even Hungarian people in their independence struggles. The flag of the War of Liberty in white, with a red cross and on it with the inscription:, You will win in this sign, and Konstantin Nagy's winning flag was modelled. Hungarians also fought, and Hungarians lost their lives. In 1931 he remembered them as the mayor of Athens at that time:. There flourishes in the heart of Europe a nation of freedom-loving, noble, life-sustaining nations with no match in the whole world: brave, proud Hungarians, masters of freedom. And he remembered with warm words the selfless Hungarian heroes who shed their blood for Greek freedom. This monument now decorates the Zappeion Garden in Athens, and remains an eternal memory for our self-sacrifice, phyllime Hungarian brothers, which is not only a symbol, but also a token of close contact and always selfless, true Hungarian friendship. Among the victims were Captain Károly Dessewffy, Captain Mihályi, Kristóf Laszky and his volunteer team; dozens of Hungarians were destroyed. Dear Parliament, Just as when Byzantium fell, they didn't help, or late, the great powers of that time, from 1831 even though from 32 countries, but only volunteers supported the fight for freedom. The Greek nation, the Greek people, the Greek millennia deserved more, even today. Hungarians, Hungarians, the Hungarian government can count on both Hungarian Greek nationalities and Greece. Today's 21st. They can count on us in the course of a century's invasion, violent migration, and we will work together. Happy birthday to Greece, happy birthday to the Greek people. Thank you very much for your speech. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.30]]
u2021-03-22-32	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I now invite Mr Attila Móring to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-03-22-33	Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; László Varju, DK; Anett Bősz, DK; János Bencsik, independent; László Hajdu, Zoltán DK and Zoltán Varga, DK.
u2021-03-22-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We will now begin the discussion of the questions at 12:30. Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Are you concerned with the problems related to the COVID vaccinations published in the Hungarian Medical Chamber's Győr-Moson-Sopron County President's call to the public? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Balczó has the floor.
u2021-03-22-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the last week, the public call for Covid vaccinations was made available to Dr. László Szijjártó, President of the Hungarian Medical Chamber of Győr-Moson-Sopron County, on several news portals. According to him, the public's information is incomplete, often wrong. It's totally censored. Hospital staff can't comment. The patients are dissatisfied because the public media hears that there are enough vaccines, they put them out on weekends, they ask their general physician questions, and they are also responsible for the vaccinations they have not yet received. In the central distribution of vaccinations, there are a number of disturbances, and in the absence of well-founded descriptions, GPs do not have reliable knowledge of the benefits or risks of each vaccine. Vaccinators are motivated by pressure, uncontested, humiliatingly low remuneration. They often receive neither administrative nor other logistical support. Reading the call, it is felt that it has no political motivation. Your aim, I quote: Please help our colleagues in this increasingly difficult situation with understanding and patience! I ask Mr. Secretary of State, they dealt with these points in substance. Let me add in person that I represent myself that until the graft reaches an appropriate rate, we cannot overcome the epidemic. I accept the unanimous opinions of the experts on each vaccine, each of which is considered suitable for vaccination, add if a preliminary indication does not make this impossible for a particular patient. I told you this because I heard the political panels in your reply when you just answered Lajos Rig, so I'm asking you to answer me personally and in substance. Thank you.
u2021-03-22-36	Thank you, Congressman Balczó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-03-22-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is regrettable that there are indeed voices in Jobbik, either by the honourable Member, or by the chairman of his party, or by György László Lukács's professional politician, or even by Tibor Nunkovics, who compared the vaccine against the Crown Virus to the Red Army in Stalin, which is capable of dissuading people, including the voters of Jobbik. It would be better for everyone to take a clear stand to register and immunise themselves as many as possible, because I fully agree with what you have said, that only vaccinations can combat this epidemic, and even though it would have been enough for this vaccine to arrive in Hungary in joint procurement in the European Union to do so, I think it is very clear to everyone that this is not enough. Not only do we say so, but from the Austrian Chancellor to the German Chancellor, and even from the current and former President or Vice-President of the European Commission. Honourable Congressman, Our goal is to ensure that vaccinations are really continuous. This year, the funding of general medical practices is already increasing enormously, with HUF 71.5 billion, but in addition, the budget provides an additional HUF 6 billion in the budget in order to pay the general practitioners, if they do vaccinations on weekends, extra labour for their additional work. They receive 80,000 forints a day, if they are killed on weekends, and if they do not work a full day, but work half a day, they will still receive 40,000 forints. This is a HUF 6.4 billion framework, precisely to ensure this for everyone. The number 1818 is for everyone to get all the information. You are referring to a lack of information, honourable Member. We have set up a separate website for all vaccine information to be available directly to everyone, whether it is the person applying for registration or doctors who are involved in the defence. There are press conferences about this every day, precisely so that everyone has all the information. It's transparent, it's on the Internet. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2021-03-22-39	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. In fact, the question in the title was also raised as to why people working in the social sector are not being put out, who are helping their troubled fellow workers day and night, especially during the Covid epidemic. I should mention how hard work is done, whether by domestic workers, villagers or even social workers. For this reason, in my own knowledge, I have received information from social workers that only those working in residential nursing homes have received an organised vaccination, and virtually everyone who could have been taken into account has been left out. Some 82 thousand people are currently working in the social sector. The biggest problem is in the institutions providing temporary accommodation. Just think of the fact that people who are in trouble, whether in connection with domestic violence or in connection with a natural disaster, and have been given temporary accommodation, so that their families are safe, they have no other income, they have to go to work. And every day you have to walk away from a temporary home, and consequently you meet a lot of people at work, and then you return to the temporary placement facility after the work is done. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State how the Government plans to organise a vaccination in this area for each specialist working in the social sector. This vaccination is needed not only in health care but also in the social sector. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-03-22-40	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2021-03-22-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You also missed this speech by apologizing for your own fake bullshit statistics, by saying untruths during the epidemic treatment, and perhaps the most notorious one is the video you made with a fake paramedic in which you accused precisely medical workers, honourable Member. [[Lajos Korózs: All the numbers have confirmed me!]] And to this day, you maintain that you do not want to apologize, but you say that you are justified by every word of Athina Németh, honourable Member, who did not even claim to be true when she introduced herself, let alone about what she then said in substance, and you still hold your Kamuvideo in the same way at the end of March this year, honourable Member. This is outrageous that you can't even apologize for this, which is completely untrue, and you have accused paramedics and hospital staff, honourable Member. You were talking about making the defense stronger, but when we voted here a few weeks ago to extend the emergency, you voted against it, honourable Member. We all want protection to be as effective as possible, but to do so, the government needs to be able to take action, take action, and you did not vote for it. Nor did you vote in favour of extending social and child protection benefits, for example, and neither did you vote in favour of the credit moratorium, honourable Member. There are politicians in your ranks who are constantly campaigning against Chinese vaccines, starting a petition. If it were up to you, there wouldn't be a million and a half people vaccinated in Hungary. [[12.40]] Among the social workers and those in the social sphere, vaccination started with those who live in boarding schools. I think it's obvious to everyone that those who are together in a community, locked up, as an elderly patient, are at the greatest risk of spreading the coronal virus. This has already given 171 thousand vaccinations to caregivers and staff there, who work in boarding schools, and more than 73,000 have already received their second vaccination, honourable Member, while you continue to aggravate that people do not give themselves vaccinations, and afterwards, as Mayor Saniszló, you are proud to talk people out of it. Thank you very much. [[Lajos Korózs: That's another lie!]]
u2021-03-22-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question, "Why are they so obviously lying?" It's called the "I."
u2021-03-22-43	Thank you very much. Dear House, It is clear that the Secretary of State has been given the unthankful task of being the poster face of the Chinese vaccine. Actually, it's not a grateful task. For God's sake, I'm asking you to jump off your demagogic and dumb-ass trek for once, stop lying because we're not anti-vaccination. If we were, we could sit back and watch the limitless lameness you've been producing for a long, long couple of months, that you can't even organize a mass vaccination at the end of the week. But that's not what we're doing, but we're deeply upset about you, because the vaccine isn't getting any better, and 70-year-old chronic patients are still waiting for vaccination instead of getting it. But let's get to the question. On 12 February, Viktor Orbán said in the propaganda tax on Kossuth radio, and I would quote it literally now:. If a few hundred vaccines fall off a truck, there must be a Hungarian raider who catches them. The truth is that you have resigned from 1 million 700,000 vaccines in Brussels, even though this would have been due to Hungary in proportion to the population. These vaccines will now be given to the Germans, the French and the Danes instead of the Hungarians. I ask you, and answer this question, please, and again, do not be the poster face of Chinese vaccines, why they are so obviously lying, why they did not order Hungarians safe vaccines tested in Europe. Why are Hungarians being punished? I look forward to Demagog's reply. Thank you. [[Lajos Korózs laughs.]]
u2021-03-22-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[András Tállai: Like a bathroom, like a towel.]] On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on the subject, Mr Bence Rétvári will answer the question.
u2021-03-22-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is impossible for everyone to compete with you in Demagogues, but we have listened to you campaigning in your glowing red tie against Chinese vaccines here too, honourable Member. 12 years and a month ago your beloved Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány failed [[Zoltán Varga: We are not anti-vaccination.]] [[Zoltán Varga: We are not anti-vaccination.]] And it seems that nothing is expensive for you to see Ferenc Gyurcsány back in government position, so you can do anything. Why do we say you're anti-vaccination? Because, honourable Member, anyone who speaks as an anti-vaccination act as an anti-vaccination act and vote as an anti-vaccination vote, we tend to say that it is anti-vaccination. (Zoltán Varga: We are not against vaccination.) What have you done here in Parliament? Parliamentary resolution has been tabled to prevent the vaccination with Chinese vaccines, to ban the Chinese vaccine, and you're okay with that right now. [[Zoltán Varga nods.]] You have launched a petition to ensure that neither Chinese nor Russian vaccines can be vaccinated in Hungary, and to date more vaccines have come from procurement outside the EU than from joint EU purchases. [[Zoltán Varga: That's not true!]] Your mayors are urging residents in their own settlement not to give you either the Chinese or the Russian vaccine, which is now, as I mentioned, most of the vaccines. So, in order to reject more than 50 percent of the residents of their own settlements, they have a specialist who, as a doctor, says that the virus and disease are even better than some types of vaccination. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] Who would say that as a doctor and not as a politician, when all doctors say that the best vaccine is the vaccine, honourable Member? More than 1.5 million people were vaccinated in Hungary, more than 16 percent of the population [[Zoltán Varga: How many people got sick?]] [[Zoltán Varga: How many people got sick?]] while the EU rate is 8.8 percent. You are constantly pursuing the deceptive rhetoric of the EU's promised vaccine for Christmas (Zoltán Varga: How many people have become ill?) You could put it out at Easter. You'd wait until Christmas, hundreds of thousands of people wouldn't be inoculated just for political reasons, but we know that this is your strategy, your own strategy, you've told us that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You're playing to keep the plague going, Mr. Congressman. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-46	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, Head of the Group, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. Why does the government not complete this shameful and harmful austerity policy, which causes serious damage to Hungarian people, and why do they not consider the cities to be partners? It's an address. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, has the floor.
u2021-03-22-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The point of the question is practically in the title, but it causes extremely serious and extremely irresponsible damage, and it is very irresponsible to have a restrictive policy against local authorities, and it is also irresponsible to see a delay in what we see now rather than a substantive negotiation of substantive compensation for negotiation. But what the government should understand, Mr Secretary of State, is that they are punishing people, not the mayors of opposition, not the city leaders of opposition, but the people, if their austerity policies do not give them access to the most important public services, such as drinking water or public transport. In the case of public transport, if adequate flight density is not ensured, it can have a specific negative impact on the spread of the epidemic, which is why it is extremely irresponsible to draw such resources from municipalities, rural cities, which are essential for maintaining public transport and all other important public services. I would like very clear answers, Mr. Secretary of State. You know very well that it is now necessary for the municipalities to plan their budgets and cannot be responsible, and indeed, according to the legislation, a budget cannot be designed in such a way that it is not entirely clear what they can expect from the revenue side. What is happening now in the case of larger rural cities? The municipal associations have asked for full compensation for the withdrawals, they will receive this, and when exactly can the municipalities expect this total compensation? And allow me one more thought, Mr Secretary, following the debate before the agenda. The LMP fraction has always been consistent in drawing attention to the importance of vaccination, and we have always taken the view that all vaccines are better than the disease. I therefore find it totally unworthy, Mr Secretary of State, that when I ask you about the shameful, encrypted Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which to Lőrinc Mészáros, you know very well that you are bringing your company 300 billion, you confuse it with such a propaganda text, which could be linked to the vaccination of the opposition. I think that this is unworthy, Mr Secretary of State, so I very much hope that you will not answer questions concerning local governments with a text of propaganda that you have just heard, but will finally answer those city leaders who wish to draw up a budget legally and responsibly. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-48	Thank you very much, Mr. László Keresztes Lóránt Group Leader. Parliamentary Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond to what has been said and the question.
u2021-03-22-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Allow me, if you have deviated from the original text, then let me also respond to this comment. The problem is not that you are criticising some kind of investment, but the problem is that you expressly object to external decisions, foreign policy decisions, I think, in an unjustified way, which would now have serious consequences. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarians wouldn't have been vaccinated if Eastern networking hadn't been where it was, and you've done everything in the last few years to keep me from being there. That's the problem. The actions and the words spoken have consequences, especially here in the House of the country, and you should know best that everything in politics is connected to everything. So you can't separate these things like that. This is also the case for municipalities. The situation and funding of municipalities are stable in Hungary. Local authorities are in a much better position than in the period before and after 2010, the availability of resources was constantly increasing, and these municipalities are constantly evolving before the coronal virus epidemic. Of course, everyone must play their part in the control of the coronal virus epidemic, and the municipalities cannot help themselves, whether they are pro-government or opposition. For example, leaving business tax revenue with businesses is a significant element of this. I think it is crucial that neither the municipalities nor the government, in such a difficult situation, do not harm people and businesses, but help them. [[12.50]] The government does not draw any resources on this, but gives people the opportunity to get in a better position in the economic context of the fight against the virus. We believe that these steps should be supported. The consultation is underway, and there is also an appointed ministerial commissioner for large settlements outside Budapest to coordinate consultations and discussions between individual cities and metropolitan areas. I would also suggest that you follow up with the Member, who is also a member of the Parliament's work. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, notary, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. Why is the Fidesz government obstructing the taxation of giant multi-company companies? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2021-03-22-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. There is good news for Hungary and the European Union. The EU Competitiveness Council has decided to introduce the so-called public country reporting obligation of multinational companies. This closed a loophole for tax avoidance companies. Unbelievable money has disappeared from the common register so far, the EU Member States lost 46 billion euros and Hungary lost 80 billion forints a year. Yet the Fidesz government, your government, voted against the proposal, which means you think only ordinary people have to pay taxes, the tax evasion of giant companies is fine. There is nothing surprising about this, as the Orbán government has made Hungary a tax haven for the largest companies, who pay less than 1 percent corporate tax, but the price of this is tax on ordinary people: we have the world record of 27 percent VAT. But the slave laws were also brought to serve the giant companies by Fidesz. What is defeat to Viktor Orbán is, at the same time, a victory for Hungary, as the budget can count on 80 billion forints a year. This would now be of great use to the health care system, the social care system, and much more should be spent on wage support, on the replacement of income for micro and small businesses, on job-seeking benefits, and on the same way the basic income for crisis management should be introduced. Secretary of State, please account for the reasons for your vote in favour of corporate tax evasion, and please also respond to the fact that the expected extra income will be bumped up or used for the purposes indicated above. Thank you.
u2021-03-22-52	Thank you, Mr. Bence Tordai, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2021-03-22-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I must point out that your claim does not cover reality, because the Hungarian government, Hungary, has always fought to reduce tax avoidance of multinational companies. The evidence of this is that the OECD's project against tax base reduction and profit concealment, the so-called BEPS project, has also been supported and supported to date. It also supported the European Union's directive on tax avoidance and the resulting legislative tasks, and introduced them into domestic legislation. In addition, there is cooperation with the tax authorities of 60 countries and an agreement on the exchange of information. Basically, Hungary is fighting tax evasion in the European Union and, of course, in its own national legislation. I can say the following of the proposal you mentioned: firstly, this debate has been going on for four years. The Hungarian Government agrees with the content of this, as State Secretary László György indicated at this meeting. However, it must be said that Hungary has problems with the legal basis, and there are about ten other countries outside Hungary. We do not have to deal with tax issues on accounting matters, that is our position and not just ours. As I said, several countries say, for example, Cyprus, Ireland, Sweden, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Luxembourg, Malta, which, I stress, we are debating the legal basis, which has also been confirmed by the legal service of the Council of the European Commission, that this should not be discussed among accounting issues, but between tax issues. The difference between the two is that there must be a unanimous decision on tax matters, but not on accounting matters. The European Union has clearly sought to circumvent legislation with this proposal. You're absolutely wrong. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, Member of the Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Where is the process of preparing the Tisza Bridge on Csáklya Road in Szolnok and the road to Szandaszőlőst? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-22-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Minister, Dear House, The city of Szolnok has been struggling for a long time with a problem that is both welcome, as vehicle traffic has increased significantly, but also causes a very serious problem in downtown Szolnok and in the area of Szolnok. That is why Ferenc Szalai and the mayor of the city came to the government with a proposal to build a new Tisza Bridge in the downtown, which would not only be the bridge of the city, but it would also lead to traffic from Rákóczifalva, Rákócziújfalu, from the south, and if there were to be a series of developments based on a wide range of social needs, I can convincingly say that this is the most important thing for the residents of Szolnok in terms of transport development. This is why it is welcome that in 2019 the government set the course in its decision to implement the so-called road programme, and gave Szolnok the opportunity to start planning the Tisza Bridge on Csáklya Road and the associated road system to avoid Szandaszőlős, the government will provide the resources for planning with respect and appreciation, and then the construction will cost at least HUF 30 billion, according to current estimates. As far as I know in the planning process, the ITM will have the study plan, the environmental impact assessment, the environmental permit obtained, the apologies, and the licensed design prepared, and we will be able to get to the construction permits. The construction of the Tisza Bridge in the traffic of Szolnok, the area of Szolnok, must have an impact on the economy, the quality of life, housing, I can say without exaggeration that Szolnok, Szolnok, but also the eastern part of the country can be decisive. Therefore, with all due respect, Deputy Minister, where is the preparation of the Tisza Bridge on Szolnok Csáklya Road and the associated road network avoiding Szandaszőlős? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Kállai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-03-22-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government's strategic objectives include the development of road infrastructure and the continuous improvement of transport quality. Our high priority, perhaps known by you, is to ensure that cities with county rights can be reached by two lanes of expressway twice, within 30 minutes of any settlement in the country a four-track road section is available, and to build roads to relieve the inner territory of settlements in order to improve local quality of life. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The road programme, which was adopted in 2016, with a budget of approximately HUF 3200 billion, allows the completion of nearly a thousand kilometres of new and improved road sections by 2024 and here I would like to point out that half of this amount is purely domestic. So, thanks to the performance of Hungarian people, we can also implement these developments. Within the framework of this program, Szolnok, Csáklya street relief road has been opened for preparation of the new Tisza Bridge. At the end of 2020, the government decided on a new road development programme to prepare more than 70 road development projects between 2021 and 2026. This will provide a source for the preparation of the export plans for the relief route and the new Tisza Bridge. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In this way a new phase has taken place, among others, a road of 8 km, twice a single band, avoiding the Szandaszőlős part of the city, as well as a development involving the construction of the 200 m long Tisza Bridge and a 650 m long flood bridge. I am pleased to inform you that the contract has been concluded with the designer for the preparation of the feasibility study, the environmental impact assessment and then the authorisation and export plans. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2021-03-22-58	[[The mic's not working.]] Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, I'm putting myself on speaker. [[Defiance.]] So thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why does the government distinguish between human lives? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It is time to stop misinterpreting vaccinations, punishing and discrimination in opposition cities, including Szombathely, and abandoning their communication that the opposition is against vaccination. As you know, I myself have stood by the importance of vaccinations several times, for all vaccines, and that is what Mayor András Nemény did when he tried to help organize the vaccinations. What was your answer to that? Avoiding the assistance that was previously requested by Secretary of State István György, misconception, and making vaccinations a political issue. Dear Secretary of State, If you finally listened to healthcare workers, such as those on Saturdays, who have asked for the establishment of new vaccination points in an open letter, which I will give you, you may find a more realistic picture of the problems surrounding the administration of vaccines. But they do not do that, but endanger the health and life of people. In couples GP clinics, healthy and sick people inevitably meet each other, which is a hotbed of infection. The city of Szombathely wishes to offer a helping hand in this difficult situation, but you responded with an attack. I ask the Secretary of State: how is the help of the Fidesz Szekszárd city administration different from that of the opposition-led Saturday-place? How much less is a Saturday citizen than a Szekszárd? Stop your policy-based discrimination and take all the help you can get with the vaccinations. Do you think it is acceptable that the head of the Vas County Government Office, chairman of the Defence Commission, Bertalan Harangozó, has unilaterally cut off contact with the Citizen's Office in the event of an emergency? You know, Mr. Secretary of State, there is no fidesz life and no life of opposition. There is a human life that we need to save with the widest possible cooperation, so once again, please accept all the help that will help to control the epidemic as soon as possible. I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2021-03-22-60	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Bana. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Gulyás Gergely, who is responsible and competent on the subject, will answer the question at the request of the Prime Minister's Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-22-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I was very pleased to hear your statement that all vaccines available in Hungary are safe, and all vaccines are better than the disease, and the best of all vaccines is what has already been given to people. The problem is that the political group that you belong to allows me to use such a general term, and then I leave the details to you, does not think so. I would therefore like to ask you to use the authority of all your representatives on that page and to persuade them, for example, those sitting on that side of the parliamentary horseshoe, to change their opinions, because I agree with you, and I think that we should work together on this. The problem is that, at the moment, if we are on the ground of realistic assessment, there is not enough of a fire point, but, unfortunately, even in spite of the additional Eastern purchases, of a vaccine. We're well-equipped from kill points. There are currently nearly 6,000, 6752 injection points in GPs and hospitals. On Saturday, this means more than 40 injection points, state and general medical together. There is also a continuous vaccination with AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Sputnik. The Vas County Government Office, which is involved in this task, coordinates the distribution of vaccines, is in contact with the general practitioners, and has specifically asked the municipal authorities of Szombathely in a letter to provide staff in addition to the general practitioners in order to alleviate the administrative burden of general doctors. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Right now, the mayor you referred to has failed to do so, and the government office is forced to provide such administrative assistance, while other opposition settlements in Vas County have also provided such assistance. So if you want to cooperate and help with the vaccination process, then you should once again go to the mayor of the town of Szombathely County and not try to forge political capital, but help protect and help the work of the general practitioners. Once again, we need a vaccine. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and this type of administrative assistance, not a new point of grafting. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-03-22-62	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. On behalf of Mr Ander Balázs, the Jobbik Group, he asked the Minister of Justice: "Why didn't you support the better proposals aimed at punishing sexual offenders and paedophiles more severely? It's an address. The question is answered by Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The ignominious pedophile scandal of the Hungarian stone in Peru broke the fuse for all normal people, and a lot of people were also upset at the way that the aberrated Kaleta was smuggled home, treated as a male egg, and finally, for her crime, she received only one suspension and a ridiculous fine. You may have felt that there was trouble in Fidesz, but there was a reason why Mr.Máté Kocsis spoke, and Minister Gergely Gulyás said, "Yes, we need the Btk." to increase the ability to drive or use machines. However, we have learned that one thing is the propaganda of a beautiful voice and another is reality. The reality, my honourable pro-government colleagues, is that the pro-government majority, at the last meeting of the Justice Committee, rejected the better law amendment proposal which would have meant a stricter punishment for pedophiles, which would indeed be necessary. The reality is that the pro-government majority did not support the resolution proposal that would have allowed a public pedophile register to be set up. We say that humans do have the right to know what kind of monsters can live in their surroundings. The reality is that there was no support for the resolution proposal related to the chemical castration and drug treatment of sexual rapists. Medroxyprogesterone acetate has already been proven in the United States and in some countries of Europe. I'd like to say statistical data: the percentage of relapses can be reduced from 43 percent to 3 percent. What does that mean, translated into Hungarian? A lot of saved victims, saving them from the terrible trauma that could affect their entire lives. And then a little more statistics: half the childhood victims of sexual trafficking in human beings in the European Union come from Hungary. 10 percent of these children were not even 11 years of age when they were sold to aberrated animals, aberrated worms. And the vision is huge. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But the simple question is, do you want to tighten up or not? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2021-03-22-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Pál Völner, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Member that there has been no propaganda about the fact that Minister Gulyás and Mr Máté Kocsis said that there is a need to tighten up gender freedom and crimes against gender morality. Every decent, normal-minded person considers every pedophile act ill, intolerable, unacceptable, which is also a serious crime, and the corresponding action by whoever is the perpetrator is justified. I would like to inform you that a comprehensive review of these offences is under way. The reason for the review is to take account of new phenomena, technical and social changes. In doing so, the current basis and basic structure of the regulation, including the existing wording, classified cases, their relationship with each other and their penalties, should be considered. The revision of legislation must not take place in an unthinkable way. Based on practical experience, a mere increase in the punishments of the law, which ignores the appearance and social judgement of the act, does not necessarily result in an increase in the effectiveness of the application of the law. It is also particularly important to offer an appropriate professional balance in the definition of individualisation, non-discussed criminal behaviour that allows judicial discretion, and enhanced conditions of hazard to society. This can only be done after a thorough professional preparation, taking into account the experience of law enforcement. In view of all of this, I would like to inform you that there is a child protection package in progress, which could include the adoption of more stringent measures or penalties than we are now. My fellow Member, Dr. Judit Bertalan, explained at the meeting of the Judicial Committee that the Fidesz faction abstained from voting on his proposals because of this ongoing review. [[13.10]] I can also ask you to present your intention to amend and support the package in the course of the debate on the child protection proposal to be submitted in Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-66	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. The disabled pensioners have been waiting for two years! When will the tasks imposed by the Constitutional Court be fulfilled? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2021-03-22-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, the Orbán government has shown many times that it leaves our fellow citizens on the side of the road, who, unfortunately, need state help or care for their situation. This was also the case for disabled pensioners, who were first campaigned for hatred, then led to unnecessary, humiliating, inhumane reviews, and finally were completely withdrawn from care, thus eliminating the institution of disability. However, the Constitutional Court served justice, in 2018 it took a decision that the Government, the Parliament, should establish legislation to compensate the disabled pensioners in full for the violation of their rights. The MSZP has submitted its proposals in this respect several times and has been rejected. We asked questions, they referred to experts, and last time they said that a solution should be implemented or created that is reassuring and acceptable to everyone. Of course, the question arises as to whether it is worth it to those who want to give this reassuring answer. The Parliament has been in breach of the law for two years since the Constitutional Court's decision should have established the necessary legislation by 31 March 2019; this did not happen. After being on the side of the disabled pensioners in the course of the reviews, we said that we would re-submit this proposal so that the violation of the law would cease and completely compensate the disabled pensioners. The people we are talking about are hundreds of thousands, and we are talking about the most vulnerable social groups, especially because of the current social and coronal virus crisis. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: when will the tasks required by the Constitutional Court be fulfilled? How long are these expert negotiations going on? When will the disability pensioners be compensated, and when will the government submit the necessary legislative amendments to the Parliament? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-03-22-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to deny entirely the sentences with which you were trying to suggest that you were trying to say that the government would not have radically expanded the possibilities for people with disabilities. Let's look at a few numbers, a pair of numbers that completely disproves you. In 2012 a social contribution tax allowance was applied to people with disabilities after about 3217 employers, three thousand, now 5570. While at that time 5574 persons with changed working skills were employed after 38,736, not five thousand workers. While the budget spent 33 billion forints on the employment of people with disabilities in the area of 2013, this year it is 48.6 billion forints. While at the end of your administration, 18 percent of the people with disabilities were in employment at 18 percent! Now it's up to 44 percent. So the decisions that you are attacking have contributed to the fact that 44 percent, instead of 18 percent, have income, wages, not aid, but income, from which you can maintain yourself and your family at a higher level. The Constitutional Court's decision referred to by you did not say that, however unlawful the law adopted by the government was, but in connection with an international treaty, that the government would have additional legislative tasks, but neither ownership nor property rights nor property rights, nor compensation or interest payment obligations. Nevertheless, we will, of course, submit to Parliament the bill to which you referred. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question, "Why are they so obviously lying?" Title II. By answering this question, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject, has appointed him. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary will answer the question. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-22-71	Orbán said on 14 March that I quote: "We are doing fine, and we will not ask for help from abroad, but rather we will provide help. According to the information received from the organizations of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, doctors now have to choose who should be on a ventilator and who can no longer have a ventilator, namely, a capacity where there is not only a machine, but also a nurse and a doctor. So doctors have to decide who gets the chance to survive and who they're forced to give up. Mr. Secretary, why is Viktor Orbán lying that there is no need for help? Why don't you at least recall the four thousand doctors and nurses who left the Hungarian health care community because of the legal status law that you dictated? Why don't you reduce the burden of hospital heroes? Why don't you save thousands of Hungarians? I'll tell you the first time, don't lie to me so much that we're rooting for the virus. If that were the case, we'd be quiet, and we'd stop your bullshit. So I expect a concrete answer: why is Viktor Orbán lying and why is there nothing they would rather do?
u2021-03-22-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You also read selectively among the sentences of the President of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. That sentence, apparently, was not heard when he said that it was not good for Ferenc Gyurcsány or anyone else to politicize medical professional questions. I don't think it's good for you, nor does it move the defense forward if you approach it on a political basis, honourable Member. I ask you to take into account this sentence of your former Secretary of State, the current President of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, honourable Member. How was the Gyurcsány period, the period of your government, when you were a politician, the secretary of state, that period for doctors? In 2002, there were 37 295 doctors when you started your activities, 37 thousand. You carved this down to 33,943, reduced the number of doctors licensed to operate by 3352, honourable Member. And we were not only able to stop this process, but we were also able to reverse it. Although you may have thought that yes, the number of doctors will decrease, but we have reversed this process and the number of doctors has increased. But it was not only in this that we were able to initiate an opposite process, that we increased the number of doctors by thousands, but also in others. In an unprecedented way, twelve years ago, you took one month's wages from all Hungarian doctors, took one month's wages from all Hungarian nurses, because you called it crisis management. We call it crisis management when we increase doctors' wages so that a beginner doctor can not earn less than HUF 481,000 next year than HUF 619,000, and from 2023, the gross basic salary of a doctor should not be less than HUF 687,000. Anyone who has worked for 20 years can't earn their basic salary here either, with different on-call and other extra fees less than a million forints. And he's been working for 40 years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You can't make less than 1.5 million forints. We use it to encourage doctors, and you drove the doctors away, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-74	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: Why is the government obstructing the establishment of fire points in Szombathely? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-22-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, As was said at the meeting of the National Assembly, the local government of Szombathely wanted to open rennet points throughout the city on the proposal of the general doctors in Szombathely. They did this to make it as easy as possible and to inoculate as many people as possible. [[13.20]] The fact is that the government office and the Fidesz apparatus in the county supported this at the beginning, they also took part in a tour, and after that, it was probably the result of Csaba Hende's political decision that the head of the government office, Bertalan Harangozó, employed the incredibly mature and statesman act of turning off his cell phone and not answering the phone before the visit to the mayor. Before you tell me that this is not what general doctors need, but more vaccines, I would like to remind you that Müller Cecília, at the previous press conference of the operational tribe, called on the general doctors to ask the local authorities for assistance in the development of vaccination points, so if he now tells the various articles of the Vas People copy-paste, I would like to indicate that Müller Cecília also contradicted this statement. The fact is that, as has already been mentioned, the town of Szekszárd, which has a Fidesz mayor, could open such grafting points, likewise allowed the Fidesz mayor of District V to do the same very well, that if the village's general doctors asked for this, the city where the opposition mayor was not allowed to do the same. In fact, it would be very good if you could finally tell us before the National Assembly, because the Fidesz in Szombathely failed to reveal what their position was, who ordered Bertalan Bellozó to turn off his phone and thereby hinder the defence. Before you tell me that I'm anti-vaccination, I'd like to indicate that I'm the only one who joined the open letter of Fidesz on Saturday, that every vaccination is better than the disease. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of State Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, More people here are happy that you joined Fidesz on Saturday. [[Defiance. Intercoms from the opposition.]] But before I go in this direction because, I suppose, sooner or later, I will be opposed here, I will listen to your speeches, and the interesting thing is that you, Members, stand in line and tell me that you are not anti-vaccination; yes, but you will be invited to an election list on behalf of your party, and you personally, which has a leader who is anti-vaccination, and that is the problem. This raises the question of political responsibility. So if you're serious about this being wrong, I would like to ask you to distance yourself from your current political allies. In the case of Szombathely, because we absolutely agree that more vaccinations should be given, I see in the statistics that this is scheduled for Vas county and Szombathely as well. There are 6,000 settlement points in the country, we are able to create 7,000 injection points; among them are state, municipal, general medical, and thousands of formations are known. At the moment, there are 40 vaccination points in Szombathely, not a vaccination point, but a vaccine, and if there's anything that GP practice needs, it's administrative assistance. That is why the head of the government office wrote to the mayor of Szombathely, for example, to provide this administrative assistance. He did not do this, but tried to generate political benefits and political debate. [[Péter Ungár: It's not like that!]] We don't think that's a good attitude. Just as other municipalities, pro-governments and opponents cooperate with the Government Office, the same cooperation would be needed in Szombathely; this is not achieved because you do not understand that the help is about supporting the work of general practitioners. It would not be necessary to create more Patyomkin things at the moment, but to help speed up vaccination. I would ask for your consent in this, as I did to Congressman Bana earlier. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-78	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:.500.000 HUF does it really compensate for the destruction of priceless natural values? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you saw that last year someone on the Tihany Peninsula broke down half the mountain, half the hillside, and the otherwise beautiful Tihany Peninsula looks terrible. We may agree that Tihany is not only one of the most beautiful settlements in the Balaton Uplands, but also the most beautiful settlement in Hungary, under national park protection, which is why in recent decades Tihany has managed to preserve the character of the fishing village, its authentic image and the plant cover that is there. However, in recent years, this has been damaged, and we have seen recently that the luxurious pools of water lying to a reservoir are being built and luxury villas lying to an agricultural building are being built in this area, and it has been an ectant example of that when people carried half the mountain there. And what was the consequence? 500,000 HUF Nature Reserve fine. Now, that's a restraining order. That is why I ask the Secretary of State that, in light of this, Mr Secretary of State, you consider this punishment to be serious enough; if you do not consider it serious, then why not; or if you do not consider it serious, do you intend to tighten up or increase these sentences? The majority of these sentences were created in the early 1990s, so obviously these amounts represented a different value. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-03-22-80	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, On the part of the Agricultural Ministry, I think it is most important to emphasise that the regulation of sanctions in the event of damage to nature is currently transparent, simple, just and easily accessible to both public authorities and customers. On behalf of the portfolio, the 2017 CXXV on penalties for administrative infringements. In drawing up law and related legislation, we considered that illegal acts committed to harm natural values should be sanctioned with an immediate fine. Accordingly, not only do harmful acts which disturb, threaten or cause damage to the protected value entail a nature-protection penalty, but also activities which are already carried out without an official authorisation or otherwise. The Government Decree on rules on the imposition of a nature reserve fine partially describes the extent of the basic fines established for activities carried out without authorisation or for certain cases which interfere with, threaten or harm nature, but also specifies the coefficients to be applied in cases with more serious consequences. In several qualifying circumstances, the multipliers may add up, so the fines that may be imposed on each case may range from HUF 100,000 to HUF millions, regardless of the specific case. In my view, these laws contain sufficiently consistent, rigorous and, in most cases, dissuasive provisions, and therefore, their amendment and tightening up are not justified at the moment. In general, I would add that, in many cases, the payment of the fine is not itself the payment of the amount of the fine, but the execution of the recovery obligation that may be imposed causes the most financially burdensome expenditure. In addition, depending on the specific circumstances of each case, of course, there can be a crime, which also has negative consequences for the perpetrators. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-82	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:. More investments in Veszprém! How does the Government help Hungary to continue to be an attractive investment destination? It's an address. You're the word, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, A parliamentary representative of an area is always a pleasure to report that serious investments and improvements are being made in the city where he lives. Fortunately, despite the economic situation caused by the Covid epidemic, I have been able to report more of these investments in Veszprém. I believe that each investment shows the growing confidence in Hungary and reflects the excellent economic and business environment of the country and region. One of these ongoing developments is Beurer-Hungaria Kft. its project, the site of which recently started greenfield investment. A new production hall will be established by July this year. With the development of some EUR 5 million, new jobs will be created, which hopefully will result in nearly a hundred more people working in the city. The other priority project in our region belongs to Thyssenkrupp Group, which creates an engineering development centre from HUF 2.2 billion. The government grants a grant of HUF 770 million for the investment. [[13.30]] The third development is linked to Balluff-Elektronika Kft. Here, the company decided to invest in new R &amp; D from 2.1 billion forints. This will ensure the preservation of 900 jobs and create 30 new highly qualified engineering jobs. Such and similar success stories are not independent from the fact that the economic and political environment in Hungary is stable and predictable. We can clearly say that the Hungarian economy is still on stable footing in these difficult times, which have been affected by the epidemic. Dear Secretary of State, Every new job and every investment means the strength and success of the Hungarian economy, which we must appreciate. That is why I am asking Mr State Secretary how the government helps Hungary to continue to be an attractive investment destination. Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Menczer, Minister of State, answers the question. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your concern, which is also important because the current government is thinking in a work-based economy, and we have already managed to fight unemployment once. We say and claim that if there is work, then there is everything, security, secure income, a predictable vision and sure everyday life for both the individual and the family. If we look back, in 2010, when the Orbán government took over the country's leadership, unemployment was somewhere at 11.5-12 percent. We managed to get this down to 3.3-3,4 percent by the end of the period before the coronal virus, which means that whoever wanted could work in Hungary. In fact, sometimes the problem was more labour shortages, which is also a challenge, but there is also a difference between what is called a good and a bad challenge, unemployment is a bad problem, and labour shortages are also a problem, but they are also of a completely different nature. That's where the coronal virus outbreak came in. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the system of foreign economic institutions have the same task before and during the epidemic in the sense that we want to protect and protect jobs where we fail to create jobs. This is also the goal of the government in relation to the epidemic: to protect jobs and, where they fail, to create them. I can tell you that over the past year, 1435 companies have implemented and launched investments through the external economic institutional system, we have achieved 270,000 jobs and 13 thousand jobs in Veszprém County, and 12 100 jobs have been protected in these projects. Unemployment in Veszprém County was above 13 per cent in the first quarter of 2010 and 2.6 per cent at the end of 2020. Protecting jobs where it is not possible, creating new jobs, you and the people in the region can still count on us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The news has come to light today that in Slovakia, family members of healthcare workers who have been infected with the new crown virus during work and died of Covid-19 disease can expect public compensation. The compensation would amount to EUR 58 712. The Slovak Government approved the bill on this on Wednesday. After multiple fidesz boycotts, a few weeks ago, H/14174 was finally on the agenda in the Welfare Committee for the declaration of the heroic death of medical workers who died from a coronal virus epidemic. I have a proposal for a decision. The pro-government representatives abstained from adopting the proposal on unfounded grounds. The objections they raise are particularly incomprehensible to me because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has repeatedly stressed that we are currently at war against a virus and that health workers are at the top of the front line. I think we can agree on that. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State, following the Slovak example, the Government plans to reconsider the adoption of my proposal and, if not, in what form the family members of the deceased healthcare workers can expect compensation. I would like to tell Mr Secretary of State that I am asking my question on behalf of 58 families. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-22-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government is working to make as many health workers as possible feel safe, and that is why it was decided that health workers, doctors and nurses working in hospitals and other clinics were the first to receive vaccination. They were the ones most at risk of the coronal virus, since all patients with the coronal virus met with physicians somewhere in a hospital or elsewhere, and therefore doctors, nurses, were more at risk. That is why they were at the very beginning of vaccinations, and that is why it has been important ever since that we have been able to obtain as many vaccinations as possible to ensure that they are safe, because if they are already protected from the coronal virus epidemic to the extent that they can provide protection, we have been able to better protect their own health and, of course, better prepared to provide additional patients. Today, when the number of patients is really record-sized from week to week and the number of patients in the hospital is record-sized, it is now particularly important that those who treat patients with the coronal virus have already received their vaccinations and that they already have immunity. Thank you for speaking anxiously about health care workers, unlike many left-wing representatives who either harass epidemiological experts or break into hospitals or generate false news or interview false paramedics. We also tried to make hospitals more secure. In addition to or before the additional resources provided during the epidemic, we increased health spending by HUF 915 billion compared to 2010. This year will obviously be much, much higher, not only because of the above-open allocation of disease control, but also because we launched a health wage increase from 1 January this year, which has not yet been the case in Hungarian health care, and this also gives us the opportunity to issue gratuity money. In this way, we try to appreciate the work of doctors and nurses as much as possible, and we try to prevent them from becoming coronal patients. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-90	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-22-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In my constituency, several dentists have indicated to me that, although the third and most severe wave of the coronal virus epidemic is at its peak, dentists providing publicly funded dental care should keep patients open. Dentists are doing work that is extremely dangerous for the coronal virus epidemic, as you know, because the basic part of their work is to provide care and to perform interventions that drastically facilitate the spread of viruses. However, it is important to note that in the Government's decree ordering the termination of services for two weeks at the beginning of March, dentists are not included, and even the legislation specifically emphasises that public-funded healthcare providers, such as district dentists, are not covered by the regulation. In the light of the above, I ask the Minister: have you really not taken action to ensure the safety of the state's dental districts, to temporarily suspend their work and to limit it only to emergency care in March? What is the reason why dentists have been forgotten so, why do they want to keep dental offices open during the coronal virus epidemic? If a restriction on emergency care has been taken in the case of services, what is the reason why dentists have not been informed? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-03-22-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Perhaps you should talk to each other once in a while about the representatives of the left-wing factions. Congressman István Ujhelyi demands that not only wildlife parks and zoos, but even restaurants be opened. On behalf of the same party, you ask why certain health institutions, such as dentists, are open. So Mr Ujhelyi would open even restaurants, and you are speaking now, and today you are saying that I can only see this as a daily position in the momentary state of the left as to why dentists' offices are not closed. [[13.40]] Why don't you two talk about it? This is how they would treat the coronal virus situation, that one week the Ujhelyi platform is in the majority, then they would open restaurants, and the next week the Szabó platform is in the majority, and then even dentists would be closed, honourable Member? We have taken all our steps, of course, in consultation with the Scientific Council on Health, in consultation with the various professional groups, and they are also issuing the procedures under which dental care can operate, with increased security measures. What does that mean? There's a body temperature measurement every time you go to a dentist. We need to keep asking everyone in detail that they have any symptoms that can make them suspicious, precisely so that they can rule out the suspicion of the coronal virus in dental treatment before starting treatment. If someone's questioning turns out to be suspicious, then he's gonna need a negative test result to start dental treatment on him. For those who are in such a suspicious situation, it is only and only the most urgent, and this is obviously also defined by the professional college, what emergency situations are, in emergency cases, any intervention can be carried out, but it is also, of course, that employees throughout the office, in addition to increased security measures, comply with not only with the rules of distance, but also in protective equipment, so that they cannot be infected. These are extremely multilayered, strict security measures, so dental care can only be carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-94	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question, "Why are they so obviously lying?" It's called the 3rd. In answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, answers the question. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, By the weekend of March 6-7, you tried to organize the inoculation of 74,000 people, but the experiment failed completely. Please spare me the anti-vaccination charge, because if I were, I'd be celebrating you out loud for this fiasco. Instead, I would remind you that on the 18th of de-cember, during the usual Friday morning interview, the Prime Minister said to the Kossuth Radio microphone, and I quote: "Today, we have the conditions for a general, national, full vaccination in a day or two. If we had to inoculate everyone over the weekend, we'd be able to do that. If that statement had been heard by John Háry or Baron Münchhausen, they would have been eaten by yellow envy. Of course, everyone knew that wasn't true, but the test of pudding was eating. And the moment of truth arrived on that weekend two weeks ago. Tell me, Deputy Minister, why do you feel the need to lie so clearly? There's no one among you who knows the rules of poker, and do you know that bluffs are occasionally called off? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-03-22-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As the Hungarian voice of Gergely Arató, I am sorry that you continued the set of statements that we have heard here from the Democratic Coalition in the last few hours without any truth. However, let me confront you with one fact: according to you, the vaccination plan in Hungary has collapsed; compared to this, if we look at the statistics, we see that Hungary is second in the EU comparison, 1.6 million people have been vaccinated, and almost half a million people have already received the second vaccination. This is because healthcare professionals, GPs and defence professionals will do their best to ensure that more vaccinations are available and that more of the available vaccinations are given as soon as possible. All they want to do is ask us for a little support from politicians, and the fact is, honourable Member, that they will not receive it from opposition politicians on the left, because you will only discredit them. They get lies and false news from you, and they're doing everything they can to get as few people as possible to take the shot, and they're accusing you of the existing, tested, safe vaccines. Here are the statements: Zoltán Varga's fellow Member said that these vaccines are dangerous, irresponsible; according to the latest scandal, a DK mayor wanted the vaccines returned. So these are troubles that I think are amazing, and they are basically trying to undermine the effectiveness of defence, obviously, for political reasons. So I would like to ask you to try once, exceptionally on the side of the Hungarian people and on the ground of the facts, and then perhaps the dialogue between us would be more relaxed. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-98	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Schanda, Minister of State, answers the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-99	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian people who work for the state, whose employers are the state, have been making very bad money, but this continued in the coronal virus epidemic, and we can also see that in the coronal virus epidemic, they were basically expected to be able to survive this period as best as possible. Obviously, everyone who had something to do with it knows how hard online education is for families and is also demanding for teachers, teachers who have a net starting salary of HUF 200,000, and who have not received any extra benefits because of the government's failure to switch to online education so soon. I would like to give an example to social workers who receive a salary of around the minimum wage, for whom their colleagues in the basic service have not been vaccinated, and who have been left out of the one-time wage supplement of HUF 500 000. I could tell the cultural workers who are involved in the fight against the epidemic, especially now by helping the general practitioners as administrative staff, even if the former press chief of the EMMI and the former press chief of the Ministry of Interior write in a fidesz propaganda paper that cultural workers are only suitable for coffee-making. The fact is that 139 of the 170 categories of the civil servant pay table is the guaranteed minimum wage. The salary of a civil servant with a higher education degree is so incredibly low, let's say 27 years of work and the salary of an initial civil servant that a civil servant with a higher education earns less than the median wage in trade. This is a serious problem because it will be very difficult to find people with high education to do the Hungarian services; they can only provide good services to taxpayers if they receive a good salary. That is why I call on the government to support the LMP proposal to introduce a minimum salary. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister János Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you first of all, although I know that you are infinitely ashamed that your allies have taken a month's wages from civil servants during their administration with the same momentum as you have taken away the 13th month's pension from our senior countrymen, and you are working with these gentlemen and these ladies. I hope you'll ask them why they didn't appreciate those who took a month's salary with a single push of a button. Honourable Congressman, Moreover, it is true that you do not want to help the Hungarian people now. If it were up to you, at the end of February, we would have lost all the protection rules, no wage subsidies, and no credit moratorium, and then you want us to be accountable. Honourable Congressman, Of course, there is still work to be done on wages, and we want everyone to earn more. However, you cannot argue that, as long as there was a wage reduction in the public sector before 2010, during the governance of the left, there have been significant increases since then. Hungarian wages in Hungarian forints have increased significantly since 2010: gross earnings have increased by about 100 percent, net earnings have increased by more than 102 percent and family tax breaks by 109 percent, so they have actually doubled. [[13.50]] Honourable Congressman, Compared to 2010, the average wage of social workers has already increased by 115 percent. Teacher salaries increased by an average of 50 percent between 13-17 percent, and teachers' wages increased by another 10 percent from July 2020; we increased the salary of trainers in vocational training by 30 percent; however, you and the entire left did not vote for these measures, nor did you vote for the increase in wages of soldiers, policemen and cultural workers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-102	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: "What, who can count on the municipalities who could not? It's an address. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor.
u2021-03-22-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I think we can agree that the rural road network does not meet the expectations of the people there, and I think that we have said it very lightly. The people living in these settlements are not reassured by a built highway, as it often falls as far from their everyday life as, say, the Maldives Slip. Walking as a responsible Member of Parliament in the constituency, one can gather desperate experiences in this area. Meeting with the mayors, talking, I was convinced that you would leave the rural settlements alone, that you wouldn't be able to help them properly, especially if you didn't have Fidesz. However, in addition to the renovation of the road network, it is also essential for the current government to repair inland roads. However, you do not seem to feel this responsibility, otherwise it would not happen in 2021 that there are settlements in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, where a large part of the roads do not have solid road cover, and not only small settlements, villages, but also towns, such as my home town, Mezőtúr. I know that one of your wonderful weapons, the Hungarian village program, has become a simple blackmail tool in the hands of your representatives. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] , gives us the opportunity to develop in this direction. The problem is only with the proportions, in the Jász 4 constituency this possibility can be used by 18 settlements out of 23 and the total amount that can be applied for is HUF 60 million. What do you think that's enough for, Mr. Secretary? This amount, I'll tell you, is enough for a 5-foot VIP tunnel for the Prime Minister. Is that your judgment? One and a half meters of tunnel equals the renovation of 18 rural urban roads? The question is therefore clear: to what, to whom can settlements which do not have the resources to renovate the roads? Secretary of State, you've been two-thirds government for 11 years, you could have done anything with this beautiful country to make people's lives easier. Instead, they consider it important to urinate few. This is your ars poetica. Shame on you! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-22-104	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to express my disagreement in the first round. I think that all road development is in the interest of people living in a given settlement and area. I believe that the progress made in the development of the motorway network and the progress made in the development of lower roads are equally useful in the area, such as improving the quality of life of people living in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. I don't understand why you distinguish between these improvements. We have a program called the "Modern Cities" programme, which has not been before, so we are talking about a new and unprecedented program since the change of system. In this context, we agreed to connect all county seats to the expressway network by 2025. There have been very serious progress in this regard. For example: Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, the connection of Szolnok to the motorway network, the M4 motorway between M0 and Törökszentmiklós section, the construction of a new Tisza bridge. These developments are under way, and within the framework of this programme, the road network development agreement will renew 90 kilometres of road sections in Szolnok County City. I would not underestimate the results of the Hungarian village. In the last two years, 1,300 kilometers of HUF 122 billion have been renewed and more than 2,500 kilometres of roads will be developed within the framework of this programme in the next two years. Regardless of political origin, all municipalities meeting the criteria of the programme will benefit from these programmes. I would like to ask you that if you really care about our efforts to strengthen and renew the Hungarian countryside and the road network that really needs development, you will not attack for political reasons but support these programmes. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-106	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question, "Why are they so obviously lying?" It's called IV. By answering this question, Prime Minister Antal Rogán has appointed a Chief of Staff of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Csaba Dömötör will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A week ago, Viktor Orbán's regular radio series on Friday, unfortunately due to the Prime Minister's travel abroad, was exceptionally sunday. During the discussion, the Prime Minister stated that I had seen that there would be trouble in November. As the epidemic alone took over 3,000 victims in November, almost twice as much as in the previous 8 months, this fact would not have been difficult to predict. However, if he had foreseen it, he would not have launched a national consultation on the opening, the mocked propaganda campaign would not have started on 17 February, because the number of victims was over 14 thousand, and today we have heard that it is over 14,450. Dear Secretary of State, Katalin Karády sang three quarters of a century ago that you should lie about something acceptable. But you are consistently ignoring this warning, I do not understand why you may secretly enjoy it in your soul if you burn up a lie? If not, then why are they so obviously lying? I'm asking. Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-03-22-108	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You are suggesting, Congressman, that the Government has initiated a consultation on how the opening will take place when that is possible. This is so many times better than what you've done. You have launched a petition against certain types of vaccine, honourable Member. There's a big difference. As far as the November period is concerned, the government decided at that time not to open, but to impose restrictive measures, the vast majority of which have been in force since then. This also serves to ensure that the health system can withstand the load during the third wave. The government was consistent in maintaining it as long as the numbers are high. Unfortunately, restrictive measures must be maintained. On the other hand, a few weeks ago, a few weeks ago, you demanded an opening at the top of the third wave. So did MSZP, Momentum and Jobbik. If we had then, more people would have died since then. As for the consultation, it will help us to know that when it is possible to open it, so I will underline once again, when it will be possible to open it, at what stages and on what basis. We are coordinating with professionals, and now we know what Hungarians want based on the results of the consultation. More than half a million answers can read this. I am very sorry that they are attacking the possibility of dialogue again, but I am happy with it in one respect: as long as they are dealing with this, they are not planning their anti-vaccination campaign, because it will cost people lives. So I could ask you when to stop anti-life politics. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-110	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance a question: Why is the tax system not fair? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-22-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, I don't think there's any debate between us about the economic crisis. However, it is certain how the government is dealing with this crisis and what should be done. The Hungarian companies wait months for wage subsidies, and the employer's contribution reduction does not affect the net income of the employees, so that is, what they are bringing home. [[14.00]] And in the present terrible crisis, all the injustices and structural problems of the Hungarian tax system appear to be perfect. It is no coincidence that LMP submitted a proposal for an amendment to the Sija Act last week, which reduces employees' contributions on the one hand and introduces a multi-key personal income tax system once again, so that less earners will be taxed in proportion; and that the minimum wage would be exempt. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, How fair do you think it is in such a crisis, usually in the 11th year of the system of national cooperation, that Hungarian workers are still taxed on the minimum wage? How fair do you think it is that I pay the same tax rate as a Member of Parliament who brings home 200,000 forints a month? We think it's unfair, it's harmful, and it increases income-social differences. In addition to the negative Europe champion wage burdens and net incomes, there is also the fact that inflation is accelerating even further this year, that food prices are significantly more expensive than average, which again mainly affects low-income people. And for a very long time, we have been calling for a single reduction of VAT on basic foods to 5%, and in this crisis, in particular, this is the time to do so. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-03-22-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-113	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If the tax system is fair or unfair, there will never be agreement between the governors and the opposition. Well, let's see what you're saying is unfair. He says that it is unfair that the rate of corporation tax in Hungary is the lowest, less than 10 percent, and 9 percent in Hungary. You say that it is unfair that in Europe there is the second smallest personal income tax rate in Hungary, 15%. You're saying it's unfair, where hundreds of thousands of families use child support, and it's a significant increase in income for them. You say that it is unfair, where Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can choose a number of unique and special taxes, see, for example, the kata system, hundreds of thousands of people, the kiva, the simpler tax system for companies. What you're saying is that it's unfair that in Hungary alone, even if I don't submit my personal income tax, it's prepared and calculated by the National Tax and Customs Office. You're saying it's unfair, where from July this year, the electronic VAT recommendation will be made to businesses. In English, the VAT declaration will be prepared instead of businesses. You're saying it's unfair and that we're cutting the tax on basic foods to 5%. But you won't tell me what it is, because it's basically the VAT on basic foods, I'm not saying it's all, but it's already 5%; see milk, poultrymeat, pork, eggs, fish that you didn't vote for. Honourable Congressman, I believe that the Hungarian government has been making significant tax cuts since 2010 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] has done so for the people. At the same time, you are not a party to tax cuts, but a tax increase, because you would essentially raise all kinds of taxes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-114	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, It's 2:03 p.m., and we're moving on to the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" In response to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Prime Minister, he authorised the Prime Minister to act. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-03-22-115	We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-03-22-116	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman and Ádám Steinmetz, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the minister responsible for innovation and technology an immediate question:. What professional expectations cannot the University of Physical Education, led by Lajos Mocsai, meet? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has authorised Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-03-22-117	Yeah.
u2021-03-22-118	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A lot of people in the sports world, so my mother, my father and I graduated from TF, the University of Physical Education. Naivan thought that the TF looking back on nearly a hundred years of history would not be the victim of your violent policy, but I understand that today is the day of a Senate meeting about the transformation of the University of Physical Education into an institution maintained by a foundation. Please, obviously, because you have received an offer in a quotation mark in this regard that cannot be denied. And if that happens, the institution that teaches our children and trainers will be controlled by the commissars appointed by the Minister, loyal to Fidesz, people who will not be able to be recalled from their positions after a change of government. But why is that? Because you're not happy with the work on TF? Or are you simply trying to steal the university's vast wealth by transferring it to a foundation? I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what professional and/or cultural policy expectations cannot be met by the University of Physical Education led by Lajos Mocsai? Will professionalism then appear in the foundation that maintains TF, yes or no, for example by representatives of the National Association of Hungarian Physical Teachers, sports associations and TF teachers? Dear Secretary of State, Please at least honor your TF instructors and students with a correct answer, if you don't like me as an Olympic champion. We're waiting for an answer.
u2021-03-22-120	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let me begin by saying that I have infinite respect for the performance you have performed as an athlete and the reputation you have earned for this country. We will never forget that for you, and for that, we are all grateful. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] So let me start by making this clear and clear. But, honourable Member, allow me also to make it clear and clear that the government is dealing with a change of model for the institutions that are asking for it. Honourable Congressman, For your sake, I looked into it, and the Senate meeting at the University of Physical Education is currently under way to discuss the change of model. If the institution decides to change the model, the Hungarian government will deal with this issue, and then, if it considers it justified, it will also bring the related law to Parliament. But, honourable Member, allow us to respect the leaders of the University of Physical Education, respect the former students of the University of Physical Education, respect the Senate of the University of Physical Education so much that we let them decide freely about it. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Free?]] What you want, you want a change of model, you want a change of model, or you don't. And when they do, then let's have a debate about it. So, honourable Member, allow me to ask you, too, to respect the leaders of the university together, to respect the Senate of the university so much that we let them decide freely on what they want to do about the future of the institution. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's called autonomy!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-122	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-123	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor. Is the microphone working, Mr. President?
u2021-03-22-124	You have the floor. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: No sound!]] I'm gonna need some help running the tech fast. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Is the microphone working, Mr. President?]] Hold on a second, please. Of course, time will be restored.
u2021-03-22-125	[[With a loudspeaker.]] Thank you very much. With all due respect, Mr President. Minister of Foreign Affairs László Rajk, the old warrior of the party, was sentenced to death at his own request. The execution took place in the spirit of mutual agreement and trust, in front of a small number of guests. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tasteless!]] [[14.10]] This Örkény-one minute came to my mind, listening to the Secretary of State's answer, that the Senate would decide wisely and freely here. Don't be ridiculous, Mr. Secretary. Here's the history. What happened at the Senate in Szeged, what happened at the Senate in Pécs? Aren't you ashamed that this is being performed in a way that is the decision of the free, elected Senate? ! We see what's happening, who's going against your irresistible offer. In any case, I assure everyone here that we hope that the National Unity Government, which is set up in 2022, will review these decisions. [[Gergely Gulyás and Dr. Bence Rétvári intervene.]] We hope that James will be a government according to the polls, and then we will oppose your anti-knowledge and intellectual policy as a true conservative party. Thank you.
u2021-03-22-126	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The truth is that you come from higher education, you know exactly, you know exactly, but for political reasons you do not want to admit that no one can influence the Senate's decision, the Senate vote from the outside, honourable Member. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] Honourable Congressman, We trust universities, we trust that the leaders of universities and universities who have decided to ask for a solution to the change of model know exactly what they are doing. They want a better and more competitive higher education, a higher education that helps young Hungarians to be more successful in life. Unlike the higher education system operated by you and your allies, because, honourable Member, you work every day to come back to the time when higher education was paid to young Hungarians. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] , and indebted to Hungarian higher education institutions. That's why you work. Shame on you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Pál Völner: They lived up to the future! Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-03-22-128	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question. It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr.Pál Völner has given him the right to reply. I ask the congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2021-03-22-129	No, thank you, I'd like to wait for Madam Secretary.
u2021-03-22-130	I would like to inform the Member that she will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Lajos Korózs and Sándor Szabó, the representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2021-03-22-131	Yeah.
u2021-03-22-132	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-133	Thank you very much. Dear House, Almost two and a half years ago, the Constitutional Court took a decision. As one of the important points of this, he set that date on 31 March, practically giving the government five months to submit to Parliament the laws that could once and for all settle the situation of the disabled. It will now be two years next week that this legislation should have been adopted. We ourselves have tabled several Parliamentary resolution proposals and even a bill, and I confess frankly, Mr State Secretary, in my narrower country, in my narrower Patria, in the Selypi Basin or in the South Heves region, there have been many, many people involved in this matter. In our proposal for a decision, we have made it clear that we see the solution in full and in retrospect, in one amount of compensation. In addition, we asked that, in the event that, in the last six, nearly seven years since this rating system has been redesigned, someone has died, they can provide the heirs with this compensation. The Constitutional Court's decision states that so-called improvement must be defined precisely, since the actual physical state that determines the individual's life situation must be taken into account. In addition, there was another decision of the Constitutional Court which said that it is not possible to reclassify a person in such a way that, compared to two ministerial decrees, they are in fact classified elsewhere on the basis of a new rating system and thus reduce their supply. I ask Mr Secretary of State: when will this legislation come before the Parliament? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-03-22-134	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is an honour for the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, to see the solution in this matter, in the compensation of disabled people, also in the Minister of Finance. However, I would like to stress that today his fellow party asked the EMMI question, Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, explained in quite detail his review and analysis in this regard, and explained the possibilities that the Fidesz government has given to those with reduced working skills to get to work, and that their lives should not be filled with problems with their health, but that they can get back to work and work. The figures shown here are great, looking back over the years. But if you have already asked the Minister of Finance about the compensation of the disabled people, about the decision of the Constitutional Court, because there is no compensation in it, then I can tell you as good news that the government has dealt with this issue in the past, and, in accordance with the Government's decision, you will submit to Parliament a proposal which hopefully will provide a satisfactory solution for all invalids and a satisfactory solution for you. With all due respect, I ask you to be patient and wait for this brief time until the laws are brought before the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-03-22-136	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-03-22-137	Dear House, Well, you didn't calm me down, Mr. Secretary, because technically, I was looking for a date. Excuse me, specialists who are qualified for codification can prepare such a simple law in one or two working days, conduct professional consultations with the co-wallets and submit it to the Parliament. In practically a few weeks, we could have made a law out of this. The Secretary of State did not respond to how the current system would be transformed, and in addition, I would have waited for his answer on the basis of which protocols the question of expert proof would work, since the Constitutional Court has also made it clear in this regard that it is not enough to declare the fact of improvement and that expert evidence should be carried out in each case. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-03-22-138	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, What you didn't ask me can't be answered in two minutes. The point of your question was when you'd be in front of the National Assembly. In this regard, I assured him that in a short time. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] But you still haven't apologized for giving false numbers to the public about the epidemic, and you haven't apologized for having people who are innocent in this case editing Kamuvideo and trying to mislead the country's public opinion in its entirety. I understand that you are about to address a very serious issue and another unresolved issue. It doesn't concern you that you're serious about the fate of the people, but that you lied in the middle of the epidemic in this country, and you have to apologize for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-03-22-140	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why are they so obviously lying? It's called "V." Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-03-22-141	Yes, thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-142	Do you accept? [[Laszlo Varju: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.20]]
u2021-03-22-143	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Orbán said on 12 September 2020 that I quote: "The success of defense can now be measured in the number of deaths and lives saved. So far, the verbatim quote. More than 17,000 Hungarian people have died, and we are the 9th worst on the list of deaths in the world. Your prime minister was supposed to be modeled by Austria. Minister, more than twice as many Hungarians as Austrian citizens have died. Why didn't you learn from it? Don't point fingers at anyone. You govern, you ask for permission to do this. This is what we could afford: 17,000 Hungarian victims. Mr. Secretary. So I ask you, you think it is a success or a failure, that Hungary, among the 200 countries in the world, has made the 9th most of its victims in this fight against the virus. Mr. Secretary. Your government, Viktor Orbán, is responsible for the death of thousands of Hungarians in the lead, and they died because of your omissions. I'll tell you in advance that you don't have to lie to me so much that I'm rooting for the virus, if that were the case, we wouldn't let your lameness get in the way, and we wouldn't rebel against their actions. Now we can measure the success of defense in the number of deaths and lives saved. So I expect a concrete response, Minister: do you think that Viktor Orbán is a success with the 17 thousand Hungarian virus victims? [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Death campaign!]]
u2021-03-22-144	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-03-22-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Of course, the loss of all life is irreplaceable for all well - feeling people. All we can say is that if it weren't for the current coalition on the government and we didn't get vaccines against which, as you are fighting the vaccination campaign, you are fighting hard, then the situation would be considerably worse. As far as the authentic data is concerned, I suggest that you be informed of them. On average, 10,6 percent more people died in the countries of the European Union in 2020 than in 2019 and 8.7 percent in Hungary. So if you get information from real statistics, you see that we are better off in the number of extra deaths than the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-146	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-147	Mr. Secretary. In my opinion, it's more the case that you're fighting the virus with oral karate. Plus, where's the delay, where's the panic buttoning action, you're acting like a virus denier. That's why we're in the 200 countries' defense struggle in the 191st place that has failed. In the past, this figure even said that the necessary protective equipment is available in a sufficient number of hospital beds, respirators and doctors and nurses required to operate them. Or he also said that whoever catches the disease will be cured. Again, with the success of defense in human lives, how are you now, Minister?
u2021-03-22-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-149	I will reply again, at most in a little bit more detail, in order to inform the congressman. In the European Union, there was an excess mortality in 15 countries above average, i.e. more than 10,6 percent. Compared to this, this was 8.7 percent in Hungary. I do not suggest that we continue to compete on human lives and their loss, but if you are interested in this, Hungary is the most effective defense-proof third. What the government is responsible for is that everyone who gets sick has access to care. This is assured today, not because of your work, but despite that. Today, nurses and doctors struggle to provide the highest possible care for everyone. You're accusing us of defending or fighting against the virus with oral karate, but you're fighting against the virus with oral karate, and if it were up to you, there would be a significantly higher death rate, because you're fighting the otherwise best data and protective Eastern vaccines, and you're doing everything you can to get as few people as you can get yourself vaccinated. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-150	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who assumes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-03-22-151	Thank you very much, I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-03-22-152	I would like to inform Congresswoman that the Prime Minister has to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why is the tax system not fair?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[Antal Csárdi: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Interesting data have appeared on the surface of Eurostat, the data of which you refer to in a very high and highly credible way. Eurostat says that Hungary has the fourth lowest wage level in the EU comparison, and the same analysis of Eurostat says that Hungary has the third highest tax wedge rate, which means that today the total public burden on wages is extremely high. I think that some of this is clear, for example, that there is an unprecedented existential gap between the top two and the lower two decades of Hungarian society in the economic sense. We know what that means. This means that while some people can go on yachts or in any luxurious way, the lower 20 percent struggle for their daily livelihood. Dear Minister, Would you consider the tax system that we have now to be fair, given that you have also moved to a multi-key tax system for people under the age of 25? For people under the age of 25, young people are taxed with a zero-key and a 15-percent key if the law is passed. My question is when you intend to introduce a multi-key tax for the whole society. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-154	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-03-22-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We do not wish to change the single-key tax system. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-156	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-03-22-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, You are either lying or you do not know what laws the Hungarian Parliament is discussing, because the amendment of the law before us is about the fact that people under the age of 25 have to pay zero per cent of personal income tax up to the level of average wage; which, by the way, I think could be correct, or at least its direction could be right, because a multi-key tax reduces social differences and thus significantly improves Hungary's competitiveness and takes into account what you have never taken into account in the course of their governance, the need for social solidarity: that a high-income Member of Parliament, such as Minister, should take his share out of financing our common goals. My question is, why do you think that you only have to do your share of our common affairs as much as, say, a fellow countryman who only makes 170 or 200 thousand forints? Thank you very much. [[14.30]]
u2021-03-22-158	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-03-22-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I do not think that either Mr President or I should contribute the same, because the single-key tax system, which is a proportionate tax system, has the great advantage that those who earn 3 or 4 times more tax 3 or 4 times more. So you didn't explain it, but in fact, the difference between a multi-key tax system called progressive and a single-key tax system is that it is disproportionate for those who earn more, or only pay more taxes in proportion to what they earn more. From this point of view, we have always seen that the middle class was forced to pay the highest tax rate during the period of governing your allies. So the end was always bad when a multi-key tax was introduced. Although he did not approach the issue politely or in a friendly manner, we are used to this from the opposition, but the tax exemption does not mean a multi-key tax. [[Antal Csárdi: Zero percent.]] I do not want to adjust it on economic matters, I am a lawyer, but I would like to say that the tax exemption has always existed in the Hungarian system since 2010-11, because by introducing tax relief for children in the family support system, very many have not paid so far, and yet you have accused me of a single-key tax or criticized the single-key tax. So you knew perfectly well that the tax exemption would not change the one-key tax [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Or if that's not the case, then I don't know why you've been talking nonsense for the last ten years. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-160	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio and Szabó Timea, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-03-22-161	We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-03-22-162	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "You can go to Dubai, but you can't go to a restaurant?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I will quote the Prime Minister: where the government will surely act, it will tighten the rules of travel outside Europe, because there are those who cleverly figure out that they are doing business, but they are actually going on vacation, bringing the virus into the country a rapidly spreading mutation. Orbán's friend, the permanent winner of public procurement, Lőrinc Mészáros, then found out that he was in Dubai with his luxury private jet on the long weekend of 15 March. So it seems Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was thinking of them, and he was thinking of him when he was talking about people doing business who were actually taking a vacation to these destinations. So, while people are at home after 8:00 p.m., while the crowd of people cannot work while they cannot go to a restaurant while limiting their lives, in order to comply with the rules and save other people's lives, there are people who are free to do everything, and they are fooling not only the Prime Minister, but all Hungarian people. Dear Minister, The number of deaths per day is around 200 due to the new mutation, 1300 on a ventilator, 11,276 infected in our country in hospitals, because we can't contain this killer virus. I think it is very wrong that someone who owes everything to Hungarian taxpayers behaves like this. I ask Minister how he plans to change this announcement-based ban, because it seems that the people of power do not take this seriously, or will be the consequence of Lőrinc Mészáros's vacation. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-03-22-164	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-03-22-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to make it clear that the government's position has not changed, so I think that everyone in the current situation should be set an example, not only for politicians but also for business actors, so it is irresponsible and it is not acceptable for someone to be in Dubai right now. Come on, unlike you, I don't know the Prime Minister's friends as well as he does, but I probably know the Prime Minister better than you do, so I can't answer any personal comments. Nor can it be excluded that if someone has been in Dubai in the last few weeks, they have done so for business reasons, but yet I can only suggest to businessmen that they do not travel to Dubai in any way, this is not the time when they have to do something on a business trip, or, in particular, now is not the time when they have to spend time there. So what the Prime Minister has said is the guiding principle, at the very least by mistake or by misjudgement, Member, who are the Prime Minister's friends, is once again apparent from the story you mentioned. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-166	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr Minister, you have given a surprisingly correct answer. That's what we expect the government to follow the rules, have everyone follow the rules. At least it wasn't a copycat, it was fair. In the case of casinos, there were exceptions, and unfortunately, in the summer we saw that the Prime Minister, I do not know that he is a friend of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but his fellow warrior, did not follow his rules, and he spent his vacation on a luxury yacht on the Adriatic, while he was out there to avoid going to the Adriatic. But if you take the defense seriously, you take the restriction seriously, and it's serious what you said, then this trip must have some consequences on the part of Lőrinc Mészáros. We're waiting for the consequences.
u2021-03-22-168	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-03-22-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Congressman, I have tried to be precise, and I therefore consider this to be a standard of expectation. In the summer, there was no mention of anyone going to the Adriatic. The Prime Minister said, by the way, that. more Balaton, less Adria, and less, of course, that if someone went abroad, they could do so in relatively safe conditions in the summer, because of the low numbers of infection at that time. So I wouldn't put the two in pairs. In Dubai, there was indeed a categorical Prime Minister's statement, some did not follow. The question is whether this is enough in the form of a recommendation or to prohibit travel to certain countries. If the opposition has such a suggestion, then do so, the government will consider it. For the time being, if we do not make rules, then a government can give principles, even moral, guidelines, but then its legal sanctions cannot be imposed in a rule of law. If rules are made, entry to the United Arab Emirates or other countries may, of course, be prohibited, or quarantine obligations may be imposed even on a business trip when returning, and this has not been done for any country. This was because it was, we thought, the public belief in Parliament that business should work, the economy must work, because the coronal virus is causing enormous damage to the economy, so where possible, we should not cause any more damage. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But if there is such a proposal, then the government will consider it. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-170	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What is the consequence of the illegal acquisition of the legal exam? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner gave the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Thank you, Mr. President, I accept.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-22-171	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Csaba Czeglédy, Ferenc Gyurcsány's tax fraud lawyer received his law degree in 2006 and became the main deputy mayor of Szombathely County in 2006-2010. However, during this period, the left-wing lawyer acquired the mandatory three-year legal practical time required to pass the legal exam. The municipal law in force at that time clearly states that a deputy mayor may not establish a relationship for work other than the intellectual activity of scientific, educators, lecturers, editors, arts and legal protection. Csaba Czeglédy did not receive such exemption from the general meeting, nor could he receive such exemption, as the municipal law is a law in this regard. All these circumstances therefore raise the suspicion that the lawyer on the left could hardly legally fulfil his mandatory three-year legal period. [[14.40]] However, his practice was confirmed to Csaba Czeglédy; it was at Monopoly Kft., the real estate agency of which Czeglédy owned through Human Operator Zrt. So his own company confirmed the three-year practical time required for him to pass the exam. The Czeglédy, who knew hundreds of tricks, did not shy away from the fact that the law was outlawed to acquire the qualifications that were necessary for his work as a lawyer. It is a shame that the left, in obedience to his leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, continues to excuse a criminal lawyer who has been expelled from the Bar Chamber of Law. Dear Secretary of State, I ask: what is the consequence of the illegal acquisition of the legal exam? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Pál Völner, please.
u2021-03-22-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For the Democratic Coalition, Csaba Czeglédy is a hero, a patriot who also takes on prison for opposition and anti-government work. And although not DK, but the politician of the MSZP, as a sign of our support and solidarity, Csaba Czeglédy will be placed on the DK EP list only because of the fact that Czeglédy was placed on the DK EP list. The fact that Csaba Czeglédy is a talented lawyer in the eyes of the left also proves that his office is currently working for good money for the DK-led municipalities in the capital, he is constantly getting busy assignments from the DK mayors in the capital. It also demonstrates the ability of Czeglédy to hold another full-time position as a full-time deputy mayor between 2006 and 2009. My fellow Member also referred to the fact that he spent the practical time of his legal examination at the real estate agency, and also at the Budapest-based Kft. It is truly an esteemed ability to work in Budapest and Szombathely twice for eight hours and commute back and forth every day. The only problem with this is that the 1994 LXV on local authorities in force during the period considered. Law 33/A Paragraph 2 (2) (a) provides that a full-time mayor may not establish a relationship to work other than a Member of Parliament, with the exception of an intellectual activity which is subject to scientific, educational, literary, editorial, artistic and legal protection. The Deputy Mayor shall also be understood in relation to this provision. It is obvious that Csaba Czeglédy did not comply with this provision, sat in the deputy mayor's seat and held this position for four years. It is worth checking the social security records for contributions at this other place of work. With regard to Csaba Czeglédy's full-time work, 99.9 percent believed that there was no need to allow legal work, but we are 100 percent confident that the laws should be followed by everyone. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-174	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-175	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, I've got the Veszprém County Court in my hand. [[He's showing me a document.]] Judgment of 11 June 2003, according to which Csaba Czeglédy was sentenced to four months in prison for tax evasion for crimes and other crimes, one year suspended for three years. I recommend it to the DK representatives. I also have in my hand the Szombathely City Prosecutor's Office's decision of 21 August 2000 in which [[He's showing me a document.]] Csaba Czeglédy was reprimanded by the Public Prosecutor's Office because of 11 counts of unauthorised processing and two counts of forgery of private documents. These judgments clearly show that we are dealing with a tax fraud criminal who has already been convicted of tax evasion and is not far from committing crimes. That is precisely why I have strong doubts that the three-year period for the legal examination was legally confirmed by Csaba Czeglédy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-176	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] We cannot go without saying that Monopoly Kft., also named by Csaba Czeglédy, had its seat in Budapest, in Moscow Square, in today's Széll Kálmán Square, since November 2004. However, the Human Operator is also Monopoly Kft. has transferred its branch to Széll Kálmán tér 8 on 20 July 2011. In addition, Monopoly Kft., which provides Czeglédy Csaba with a case-law, is the managing director of Gábor Varga, who was a member of Human Operator Ltd. owned by Czeglédy between 2001 and 2010, and Gábor Varga is currently a shareholder of Human Operator Zrt. As you can see, the network works, it worked in the past, and this is how the future is planned, but now it's about government. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-178	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When will you join the small entrepreneurs?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-03-22-179	I'll take it.
u2021-03-22-180	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-181	Mr President, Dear House, Over the last few weeks, there have been reports that the government has provided non-refundable, sometimes horrific, grants to multi-company and large companies in the order of tens of billions. I would like to point out that if the contract is sensible and really protects jobs, we do not feel sorry for the resources, but I would point out that Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises do not receive support, but only credit. At the same time, the government did not examine how this loan could be obtained, how it could be obtained on the market, and the Minister and the Minister did not accidentally use the expression that the loan, which, by the way, I indicate to you, must be repaid, should be paid back, contrary to, say, the tens of billions of dollars of subsidies received by large car manufacturers. In many cases, it is up to the intermediary bank or a mortgage note that the credit can be obtained in what order it is available, but we also see that Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises suffer alone on the side of the road, and that jobs are being lost in bulk. You're here to tell me that in a total of one year, 50,000 have been lost, and then your KSH comes out, that only in January has 97,000 jobs been reduced. There is, therefore, a huge difference between obscurity and your bubble of opinion, but let us try to look for something that may be common in our opinion and connect us. Minister, the thing is, we do not expect big things, we do not expect extra support for small businesses carrying the country on their backs. Would you be willing to open the same amount of aid to small businesses as it was allocated to multi-enterprises? This is a simple yes-no question, Minister, the fact is that in addition to the preferential loan, all Hungarian small businesses, where traffic has been substantially reduced or they can give less work to their employees, would also deserve an amount of HUF 1-2 million in non-refundable support. I mean, if we keep the company, we'll keep the job. Have you been open to this solution and provide the same amount of resources for the small ones as for the multinationals or not? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-22-182	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-03-22-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, After all, we can agree on common data even if we start from what you mentioned, because you presented the employment data in January in a way that seems to be a slippery in this context. The fact is that in December, as many people worked a year before, when the corona virus had no negative impact on the labour market situation. And the difference, which is a difference of fifty thousand, and what is also true, as you mentioned, is that in January, not fifty thousand people lost their jobs, as a year ago, completely independent of the coronal virus, quite simply the labour market figures in December have been higher for years and even decades, probably because of the greater turnover of trade, but now the jobs of 97 thousand people have ceased, and so has the difference in employment of fifty thousand, which you mentioned. So the two data together are true, simple, you just have to look at the data of the KSH. All the jobs that the virus has eliminated, we're going to recreate. We're looking at minus 50,000 in this one, according to January data, but I think it's going to be much better in the months that follow. And if we can open up early thanks to the purchase of vaccine, rapid purchase of vaccine and vaccinations, then employment will be restored significantly earlier, beyond any previous record. As far as the amount of aid is concerned, 713 thousand jobs have been protected thanks to the support programmes, 1.1 million Hungarians can now receive labour market or training support, and 207 thousand workers of the 18 thousand, mostly micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are directly affected by the employment protection wage support programme. [[14.50]] In addition, we can pay them up-to-date now. Sectoral wage support for catering, leisure, travel and accommodation services enterprises [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So far 53, nearly 54 billion forints. I believe that the government is doing a lot to ensure that small and medium-sized and even micro-enterprises can survive this difficult period in the current situation. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-184	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-185	Mr President, Dear House, I find it open and brazen provocation when a minister pretends not to understand the question asked. I am not asking you about your microscopic wage support system, Minister, which is among the hosts in Europe, but about concrete non-refundable subsidies for companies. Don't pretend you don't know that your government grants non-refundable grants to multinationals equal to 27 years of average wage, if any, after a job; it also provides companies who make up multiples of the amounts from the country untaxed or even in the form of dividends. And you owe me that, 207,000 people getting paid? ! I am glad that it should be ten times as much, because two thirds of the four and a half million workers are employed by Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. You should support them at least to the same extent as the multi-enterprises. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] His reply showed that although they are very big national rhetoric on paper, none of this is true again. You are not right-wing, you are not Christian-social, you are simply an economic company that will deliver Hungary to everyone if your profit interests serve [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-22-186	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-187	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that I am delighted when something from Jobbik, which now embraces Ferenc Gyurcsány, concerns the old times, even though it may be good from the old days that many things have been abandoned; but it has not yet been possible to abandon the fact that multinational companies also have a role, place and significance in the Hungarian economy. They do not deserve or receive greater support than small and medium-sized enterprises. If, therefore, your question should be understood as a yes-no, I would like to reassure the Member that the Hungarian Government is giving more support to small and medium-sized enterprises than it is helping multinational companies which are otherwise in Hungary. So your claim doesn't correspond to reality, but I suggest that so much of your program has been thrown out of the past few years, and that you can also throw out what is the banishment of multinational companies. At the same time, it is very right to support small, medium, micro-enterprises. The government is doing this more than any of its predecessors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-188	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:,, Let's clear the air, who stands for the vaccination and who opposes it? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Minister personally for an answer?
u2021-03-22-189	Yes, I accept, Mr. President.
u2021-03-22-190	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-22-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For more than a year now, we have been fighting with the corona virus epidemic, which is challenging the economy, health care and the entire Hungarian population. Health care stands up and endures: all patients with coronal viruses can receive the best possible care. I should therefore like to thank the health workers, doctors and nurses working in Hungary, and also thank the Hungarian population, because most of them comply with the emergency rules imposed by the government. In the fight against a coronal virus epidemic, it has become clear that the left will focus on its own political goals rather than on joint cooperation and overcoming the epidemic as soon as possible. While left-wing politicians campaign against vaccination, they give you the vaccine. Why is the left anti-vaccination? The answer is simple. Because they do things that support this. In the Parliament, a proposal for a decision is submitted to prevent people from being vaccinated in Hungary with a vaccine approved by the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority and not by the European Medicines Authority. Because they collect signatures so that Hungarian people cannot be vaccinated with five vaccines, only three. Because here in Parliament, they vote for anti-vaccination proposals because people are dissuaded from injecting Chinese and Russian vaccines. Dear Secretary of State, Meanwhile, in our country, the number of vaccinated people is growing as quickly as possible. The vaccination takes place three times as fast as the average of the European Union. According to the latest data, more than 16 percent of Hungarians received the vaccine, which means more than 1 million 600,000 vaccinees. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, who stands for vaccination and who opposes it? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2021-03-22-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What did András Fekete-Győr write about the Russian vaccine on his Facebook page? Russian vaccine is a waste of money without EU authorisation. What did András Fekete-Győr's brother, working as a doctor, say about the Russian vaccine? It's a good vaccine, and it might be introduced in England. This shows that this is a simple political issue for left-wing politicians. If we keep reading from András Fekete-Győr, no one should overdo it, but if he does read, he says that Eastern vaccines are a vaccine for dictatorships. It is simply not a matter of health that a vaccine comes from the East, that it is suitable or not suitable, as his medical-educated brother judges it on the basis of efficiency and safety, he says that what comes from the East is a vaccine from the dictatorship, so that no Hungarian person's life is saved. It is extremely irresponsible, while the number of vaccines coming from the East is now higher in Hungary than the number of vaccines coming from joint procurement in the EU by looking at how many people can be vaccinated with vaccines. The Hungarian left would now have clearly and generally said no to more than half of the vaccine against the coronal virus. They would have halved the number of people who could be vaccinated against a coronal virus because, on a purely political basis, they said that Hungary should not obtain a vaccine outside the joint procurement in the EU. The impossible mathematical example is that the three are more than five, because we are trying to get vaccines from five places, and we would like to increase this number further in the coming weeks. However, they insist that only three vaccines can be obtained. This shows that the left would have put the country in terrible danger not only in economic terms but also in health terms. Think of how much greater the spread of the virus and the risk of infection would be and how much more sadder certain numbers and data related to the coronal virus would be if half of the people were vaccinated in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-194	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am shocked to read the news that, for example, the DK mayor does not allow the Chinese vaccine to be vaccinated in his district. I am shocked to read the texts published in social media that encourage us not to inoculate ourselves, but at the same time we are experiencing and seeing that the government's actions have accelerated the number of people requiring vaccination in Hungary, and we have every hope that by Easter those two and a half million people will be vaccinated, and then perhaps the process of opening will begin. I think that the responsible Hungarian person is doing the right thing, and that is when the politician or factory worker or a doctor is doing the right thing. This not only protects and protects itself, but also its environment. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-196	Thank you, Congressman. The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What have we heard from left-wing politicians in the last few weeks and months? On the one hand, that there should be an opening, the ban on the epidemic should be lifted. István Ujhelyi said that we should open, we should review everything, Tamás Soproni from Momentum, but several other momentary politicians, such as their president, András Fekete-Győr, said that we should abolish meaningless rules. He called the antiviral rules pointless. James Peter, Jobbik: Open, open, or you will be permanently closed with such and similar sentences. Left-wing mayors demand that the residents of their district, their city, should not be vaccinated with Chinese vaccines. [[15.00]] So two things were demanded, on the one hand, that the restrictive measures against the virus should be lifted and, on the other hand, that fewer vaccines should arrive in Hungary, the machine that arrives at Ferihegy Airport from China, should not unpack the vaccines, but return them to China. How irresponsible is it for the Hungarian left to send back Chinese vaccines from Ferihegy airport to save people's lives in Hungary? ! Reckless! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-198	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, How is the anticancer plan? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-03-22-199	Yeah.
u2021-03-22-200	Yeah. Before I give the floor, I will say good-bye to you and hand over the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. There you go. You have the floor. [[Intervention from opposition lines: Goodbye! It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-03-22-201	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! A year ago, last year, the European Commission adopted a document encouraging Member States to prepare their own national anti-cancer action plan. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Well, it is well known that, unfortunately, Hungary is at the forefront of cancer in Europe. At the same time, we also know that about 40 percent of diseases could be prevented if countries took effective measures. As I have said, the European Commission has adopted this document, this is practically a political commitment to the European Commission's desire to help Member States prepare an anticancer plan and to provide financial resources to Member States at a later stage. If we are to study this document, then it turns out that this recommendation has been organised around virtually five points, which I believe should also be considered in Hungary. This is prevention, early detection, diagnosis, treatment and improvement of quality of life. Well, it's a kind of recommendation, you have to explain these points in practice, you have to allocate budget resources, you have to assign human resources, you have to practically fix who's responsible for what, and what time limit these tasks are carried out. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State, and I see my time is up. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-202	Thank you very much. There was still two seconds, Mr President, but it is clear that there was not enough time to further develop the line of thought. Thank you very much for your speech. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Hungary has had a national cancer control programme since 1993 which takes into account WHO recommendations, which was the first of the Central European countries to be born in Hungary, and can be linked to the former location of the Minister of Human Resources, the Institute of Oncology. We can also remember that in 2006, when there was an election campaign, Ferenc Gyurcsány's Minister for Health announced that they would continue the national anticancer programme and that no progress was made in this case in four years. They promised me in the campaign, and then they didn't give me a penny to implement this program. (Attila Móring József in the notary seat) Replaced by László Földi.) In 2018, the national anticancer programme, together with the circulatory, musculoskeletal, mental health and child health programme, was renewed. This includes the main cornerstones of the fight against cancer from 2019 to 2030. This is obviously in line with the different WHO strategies, and it has set the goal of reducing cancer mortality significantly by at least 10 percent in Hungary, despite the expected rising incidence by 2030, to save so many Hungarian human lives. The main elements of this programme are: prevention of cancer diseases, screening and early detection of cancer diseases, anticancer treatments, rehabilitation, hospice, palliation, awareness-raising, education, social communication to all in relation to cancer action, prevention and healing, development of a national oncological structure, and identification and monitoring of indicators. We are going along this programme, and we are not only thinking in Hungary, but the Central European Academy of Oncology was established in 2018, which is an international collaboration, now signed by 21 countries from the region. This is a Hungarian initiative, but it brings together 21 countries, precisely because of the anticancer treatment [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We should also use international experience to protect the lives of Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-205	Thank you very much. Dear House, This is about the European Commission drawing up an anti-cancer plan and asking Member States to carry out the task of drawing up a national anti-cancer plan. All I asked was that such a plan was made in Hungary, who was responsible for it, and what is the possibility of moving forward on this issue, as human resources and budgetary resources should be added. I hope that in return, Mr Secretary of State can tell us how such a plan has been prepared and who is responsible for this in the Ministry. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As I said, Hungary has an approved government decision on this, honourable Member: 1722/2018. If you look at a government decision, it has fixed these tasks for each person under their responsibility, but obviously the primary responsibility lies with the Ministry of Health and the National Institute of Oncology. And not only was there paper drawn up on this, honourable Member, not only different decisions, decisions, but also a complex examination of complex colon and rectal cancer screening, the complex programme aimed at the population between 50 and 70 years of age. We put the screening tests in place under the program, ten health development buses started in 88 locations with 7700 people, almost 150 other programs were implemented. So for both colon and rectal cancer screenings, you know that malignant lesions have been detected at an early stage in thousands of magnitudes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And with that, we trust that we have saved the lives of thousands of our countrymen. Not only is there a resolution, but there are lives saved. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 3:07 p.m., and we're done with Question Time. I'd like the room service to invite Mr. Szabolcs Ágostházy Secretary of State to come in, because we can't begin the next item until he's in the horseshoe. [[Dr. Szabolcs Agostházy is arriving at the meeting.]] Thank you very much. Welcome, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, A political debate on the use of EU resources in the 2021-27 cycle, initiated by Lóránt Keresztes and other representatives. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/15298 The information submitted by the State Audit Office is available to all of us on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. With respect, I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain the course of the political debate. You have the floor, Mr. Notary. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-209	Dear Parliament, First, a statement by the representative of the Government shall be made in a 40-minute period. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes, and the first independent Member will be able to speak. Further speeches by its representatives and representatives of the European Parliament are then possible within the remaining timeframe. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate. [[15.10]]
u2021-03-22-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the representative of the Government speaking during the debate shall count towards the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches shall be included in the time frame, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches shall not, as appropriate, be included in the time frame. I would like to inform you that, if the MEP has spoken through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group that has announced him as a speaker. Where he has made a direct application, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member. All of us can monitor the use of time frames on the meeting room information board. However, before we begin the debate, I respectfully ask Mr Bence Tordai to explain each time frame. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-211	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided as follows: 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 47 minutes for the KDNP Group; 68 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 64 minutes for the MSZP Group; 25 minutes for the DK Group; 44 minutes for the LMP Group; 42 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 16 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2021-03-22-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear House, Fellow Members! The Government has informed us that the Government's statement will be presented by two representatives, i.e. two of its State Secretarys, and accordingly the 40-minute timeframe will be published in a joint timeframe. I now give the floor to Szabolcs Ágostházy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the opposition parties for initiating this political debate day, because it is also important for us to have the opportunity to talk in this context about the effective use of EU resources in Hungary in the coming years. We trust that this debate day will also help us to see you not only as a critic but also as a partner in the coming years. It is of the utmost importance for the government to have a broad consultation on the EU's development resources for Hungary. We have placed great emphasis on this in recent months, and in recent weeks this process has accelerated with the recognition of the Commission. It is important for us to listen to the opinions and suggestions of the Hungarian people, to listen to civil and professional organisations, city leaders and representatives representing them. Based on the experience of recent months, we can say that there is an effective dialogue with these actors, and today's debate is another excellent opportunity. The government's current goal is to devote EU funds to the development of Hungarian families and the economy with the greatest efficiency available. About the 2014-20 programming period in a few words: based on this data we can say that we have succeeded in doing so, we have announced a total of 637 calls for proposals, in which we announced funds worth nearly HUF 11 100 billion. We are also good at drawing EU development resources in this cycle, we are also among the good Member States in a European comparison, the European Commission has transferred 60% of our framework to date, and the Hungarian national budget has already paid advance amounts to the beneficiaries. When planning and using the resources of the development policy cycle of 21-27 ahead of us, we can build and build on the successes of the previous period, the streamlined institutional system and procedures, and the experience of the successful use of resources; at the same time, we must adapt to the new challenges. The results of the last ten years have provided Hungary with a solid basis on which we were able to respond effectively to the first stage of the crisis caused by the virus and we were able to demonstrate one of the best health and economic defences in the EU. Even in the financial planning of the development cycle ahead, this solid basis will help us not to use the EU funds that we have for crisis management but to produce high added value. Honourable Members, Dear Parliament, As is well known to you, the European Union's framework budget, i.e. the multiannual financial framework, sets the budgetary guidelines for the next seven years. The MFF and the EU's next generation recovery instrument, which is now accompanied by a first and probably one-off increase, will amount to some EUR 1800 billion for the 27 Member States of the European Union. What I can tell you about Hungary's share is that the total amount of HUF 10 780 billion in the budget part, combined with the next generation, is HUF 18 060 billion for Hungary in the coming years. We must emphasise that the Government of Hungary has achieved significant results in terms of the framework budget last summer in Brussels. In the final round of negotiations, Hungary was able to secure the largest increase in cohesion resources between Member States, some EUR 2 billion. In the budget, about HUF 7020 billion will be available to Hungary in the framework of cohesion policy, which is still worth the Hungarian national contribution, and within the framework of the common agricultural policy we can manage some HUF 3710 billion, which will also require the added resources of the Hungarian national budget. If we want to focus on the key priorities in a brief and comprehensive way, economic development, competitiveness, infrastructure and job creation will continue to be the focus in the next period. Cohesion funds for our country can be spent on specific policy objectives. Our planned main interventions serve as our highest-ranking EU development policy goal to make our country one of the five most livable Member States of the European Union by 2030. Clearly, ten years later, it is not worth accepting that we will be one of the five richest countries, although I hope we are also on our way here, but we do want to see the Hungarian standard of living really raise us among the five most livable Member States. As is well-known, green and digital developments will be given a significant emphasis over the next period. Member States have a number of requirements to contribute to the green and digital transitions. Our country not only wants to meet these expectations but also encourages this type of investment. We will still be able to address this at the later stages of the debate, but Hungary will not find it difficult to meet all of the EU's expectations in terms of both digital and green transitions, and we will be able to provide higher costs according to our own intentions. The five policy objectives set by the Union to be pursued for Hungary, in a number of ways; these are the five policy objectives which are important not only for us but also the objectives set jointly for the 27 European Member States. Firstly, this is the smarter Europe, i.e. innovative and intelligent industrial transformation. Secondly, Green Deal, a low-carbon and greener Europe, is popularly referred to as Green Deal. Then a more interconnected Europe, a more social Europe and a Europe closer to citizens will close these policy objectives. Then in a few sentences, what will be the meaning of their implementation in relation to Hungary. With the intervention of the smarter Europe target, we want Hungary to significantly improve the competitiveness of the economy, business processes and the efficiency of production, thereby increasing the values produced in our country and creating the prerequisites for sustained wage growth. We want to support the technological and organisational renewal of businesses, their adaptation to global challenges, their involvement in international value chains and the increase in digitalisation. [[15.20]] We are planning to invest more than ever in the development of research and innovation capacities. Our aim is to introduce modern digital solutions, technologies and services in the fields of small and medium-sized enterprises and public services. In recent years, we have made great progress, and our goal is to be one of the best in Europe in these areas in the coming period. In the framework of the greener, low-carbon and resilient Europe, we are helping to achieve climate and environmental objectives. The sustainable use of our environmental and natural resources is becoming increasingly important both for the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy and for individual well-being. We want to contribute to this through economic and environmentally sustainable energy production and secure networks, smart solutions, renewable and expanding public utilities, cleaner urban transport and lower greenhouse gas emissions from the economies of the regions concerned. We support the promotion of the classic and intelligent development and flexibility of renewable energy-based individual and community electricity and heat production, as well as electricity networks, including local municipal energy developments in the context of territorial development. We also want to promote the dissemination of energy-saving, digital and smart technologies, as well as building energy investments in residential, public, municipal, enterprise and government properties. In addition, areas of intervention include water management improvements integrating water quality protection and drought management, and the development of disaster resilience. We are speeding up the process of transition to a circular economy, which is implemented in cooperation with several policy objectives and operational programmes, encompassing investments in economic development, waste management and interventions at local level. We are developing public drinking water and sewage networks, eliminating drinking water shortages. The area of intervention for this objective is also the development of sewage treatment and cleaning by the construction of low maintenance costs public sewerage and cleaning systems. This includes the remediation of contaminated industrial and brownfield areas in order to exploit those areas for future economic and welfare purposes. An important objective is to preserve Natura 2000 sites and green infrastructure, to create ecological and infrastructure conditions for the sustainable use of ecosystem services and to develop information systems in line with aquaculture and fisheries policy. The policy objective of greener and low carbon Europe is, of course, also contributing to reducing air pollution and increasing the share of renewable energy, including building heating and cooling systems for buildings based on renewable energy sources. We also want to improve the clean urban mobility network and asset pool on a fixed track, including the aspect of a significant increase in passenger experience. In order to implement the country-specific recommendation for the green transition, we want to improve alternative-driven, especially individual electric mode of transport and the conditions for cycling. Our aim is to give Hungary the leading position in terms of the share of electricity transport between neighbouring countries. We support the creation of a new generation infrastructure for fast and comfortable transport in the context of a more interconnected Europe. The objectives are consistent with the EU's sustainable and smart mobility strategy for the trans-European transport network, namely TEN-T and rail freight, and with the national transport strategy for the development of public transport and TEN-T. We want to improve the motorway network, modernise the railway lines, get modern vehicles, and improve road safety and build missing network connections on road networks. Under this objective, we would also like to achieve the development of high bandwidth national networks. By interfering with the policy objective of the social Europe, we will strengthen the foundations of a growing, healthy and competitive society in the labour market. Labour market interventions also contribute directly to competitiveness in the short and medium term, while long-term competitiveness is based on health, public education, vocational training, higher education and social institutions, as well as related cross-sectoral cooperation. We want to achieve quality and modern education services and equal access to services through a comprehensive development of vocational training institutions. This is closely linked to the further strengthening of inclusive education, support for programmes to support the acquisition of skills and expand the range of dual training sites, in line with the country-specific recommendations and the VET 4.0 strategy. In the case of human factors, there are increased territorial differences that make it difficult to increase the country's competitiveness. Special attention should be paid to further development of the least developed regions and the least developed districts in order to reduce them. We want to reduce the hospital focus of the healthcare system. This is what we want to achieve by transforming specialised care and strengthening basic care, by filling up the right human capacity and improving access to healthcare services near the place of residence. We support the quality of the XXI. Modern education meeting the expectations of the century, including formal, non-formal and informal learning and widespread talent management. In order to reduce early school leaving and improve the school effectiveness of pupils, we provide complex support for schools that need to be developed. With active programmes, we will help to restore the labour market, stay in work, to work and to improve the employability of job seekers and inactive people, of course, taking into account territorial needs. Strengthening the adaptability of labour development, businesses and citizens is of major importance. It is important to improve the conditions for employment, including strengthening health and safety at work and promoting the spread of flexible forms of employment. For young people aged 15-29 who are not a learner or a non-worker, specific assistance is needed in the form of employment, entrepreneurial support, internships or training in the labour market. As part of the interventions, we support the implementation of educational and training innovations that match the profile of higher education institutions, the development of inclusive, student-centred and flexible dual learning paths, and the promotion of preparation for scientific life. It is also an important objective to implement vocational training that strengthens reception and compensation. We support the introduction of new types of services, the further development of existing benefits and capacity building in order to meet the challenges facing the social and child protection system, in particular those related to ageing. A further priority is to reduce the turnover of workers in the sector. We want to improve the employment situation of disadvantaged people, including those with disabilities, as well as Roma, by increasing educational attainment and reducing prejudices. There is a need to reduce the level of involvement with severe material deprivation, which applies in particular to disadvantaged children, especially the Roma. The target group should be provided with lifelong programmes from the earliest age. The reduction of territorial social disadvantages can only be achieved through coordinated human and infrastructure developments. The complex development of settlements with the lowest indicators is necessary, and the improvement of the situation of people living in segregation can only be achieved through coordinated improvements. In Hungary, the focus of the interventions of a Europe that is closer to citizens as a common EU policy objective is the development of regions and settlements in relation to the reduction of territorial disparities. Within the framework of the objective, improvements will be made based on integrated urban strategies, adapted to regional and local development needs and capabilities, involving relevant regional and local actors. [[15.30]] The objective is also to support thematically and regionally integrated and coordinated tourism development, building on local conditions and attractiveness. In order to achieve territorial objectives and address territorial challenges, the substantial and targeted interventions of sectoral operational programmes should be coordinated with the territorial objectives of the national development and territorial development concept. Under the policy objective, we plan to implement integrated territorial programmes in all counties. The programmes will be developed with local economic development, employment, tourism, public service development, energy, urban development, social, urban rehabilitation and human development content. The programmes should focus primarily on the development of the least developed regions' departments. In the case of the 36 complex programmes, we want to support the development of local economic development and catching-up through the integrated territorial programmes of the counties concerned. In order to develop the three priority regions, i.e. the Balaton priority resort area, the Tokaj wine region and the Central Danube region, coordinated county development should also be carried out through the integrated territorial programmes of the counties concerned. Under this objective, we want to promote the sustainable, integrated social, economic and environmental development of cities and urban areas. We also want to improve the viability of Budapest through urban development, green surface infrastructure development and human development programmes. We want to develop cultural heritage and attractions in urban and rural areas for integrated social, economic and environmental development. Dear Parliament, After presenting the policy objectives, I will briefly present to you the planned operational programmes. Compared to the structure established in the 2014-2020 period, the structure of programmes and implementation remains substantially unchanged. These proved their efficiency and usefulness in Hungary. This has also been confirmed in the European Union negotiations. In addition, content and emphasis are adapted to our new challenges. First, the integrated operational programme for the development of transport follows the priorities of the programming period 2014-2020, called IKOP, taking into account the new framework. Transport development remains an important tool for economic development and territorial cohesion. However, in line with the European Green Agreement, it places great emphasis on supporting sustainable forms of transport, improving public transport and cycling on a fixed track, connecting different modes of transport and greening motorised transport by expanding alternative fuelling infrastructure. We will also contribute to this through the rapid replacement of vehicles in Community transport, by supporting the purchase of clean and energy efficient road vehicles and by encouraging the production of alternative fuels. The areas of intervention of the programme also cover our development of shipping. The continuation of the operational programme for economic development and innovation is considered to be the continuation of the GINOP carried out between 2014-2020. Its strategic directions are set out in a document adopted by the Government of Hungary in the autumn of 2019 - The strategy for strengthening Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises 2019-2030, i.e. the SME Strategy. The GINOP Plus measures aim to create a more favourable position in the global value chains in domestic and foreign markets by renewing their technology and operation. This will help improve the standard of living of society, increase employment and protect jobs. The creation of new knowledge, the transfer and exploitation of knowledge and the improvement of the competitiveness of the economy are crucial for our future. It is essential to build a knowledge economy in the first century. This requires the support of other actors in the R &amp; D and innovation system. The R &amp; D and innovation strategy of Hungary 2021-2030, i.e. the vision of the RDI strategy, is the creation of a knowledge-based, balanced, sustainable economy and society with high added value. Based on the three pillars of the RDI strategy, GINOP's RDI interventions support knowledge production, knowledge flows and knowledge use. The main objectives of the area of vocational training are to improve the effectiveness and quality of education, to ensure the participation and equal opportunities of disadvantaged groups in quality majority education and to reduce early school leaving. As a new programme, the Digital Renewal Operational Programme will be published as a continuation of the public service development operational programme, but with a significantly broader grant content. In order to maintain economic and social competitiveness, it is essential to ensure the efficient and maximum level of electronic and automated operation and development of public services. These tasks will be included in the DIMOP program. The programme aims to coordinate sectoral policy investments and the use of innovative technologies, with a consistent approach, to contribute to digital investment in each policy task through a data intensive approach through a single service layer. The aim of the operational programme for the development of human resources is to support social inclusion in Hungary. The operational programme supports the fourth policy objective, namely the vision of a more social Europe in Hungary, but also contributes complementaryly to the fifth objective, i.e. a Europe closer to its citizens. EFOP Plus includes the development of five human fields: health, public education, social inclusion, social and family and youth policies, to which culture and sport contribute. With regard to the operational programme on environmental and energy efficiency, we should point out that isolated professional responses to global challenges such as climate change, pollution, biodiversity loss and over-utilisation of natural resources are becoming less and less possible. Therefore, the COHEP Plus aims to continue the environmental energy efficiency operational programme and contribute to the local management of these problems, to achieving a climate-neutral economy. The TOP, one of the most successful operational programmes of the past period, will also receive a continuation of the operational programme with a significantly higher proportion of resources than before. It supports regional and local development in less developed regions and developed regions of Hungary. A key aspect of the TOP programme is that this is what we implement in full cooperation with local governments, county governments and the capital. Unlike the previous period, there will be an implementation operational programme. This has not been done before, except in the period 2007-2013. This is how we will operate the state enforcement system to help beneficiaries work so that our programmes and resource use can be made more effective on the part of the beneficiaries. Dear House, I would now like to briefly address some elements of the national recovery and resilience plan for the other one-off EU funding leg, the Next Generation EU. This is the programme that was adopted by the Member States in response to the Covid-19 crisis and will provide significant funding of some HUF 6000 billion in Hungary over the next six years. This programme focuses on the ability of Member States to address the economic and social impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Special emphasis is placed on promoting climate change at both EU and Hungarian levels, as well as on further digitalisation of societies and economies. As I mentioned earlier, the Hungarian envelope is nearly HUF 5900 billion within the framework of the recovery tool. In this context, we are implementing reforms and investments. [[15.40]] The HUF 2510 billion part of this amount is non-refundable support, and as a significant step in the economic history of the Union, whether it is progressing or not, this will be decided by time, but this program also includes a HUF 3380 billion credit line for Hungary. In line with our own national strategic plans, Hungary has identified nine components for which we translate the common European objectives. These nine components are: demography and public education, university renewal, catching up settlements and regions, water management in Hungary, sustainable green transport, energy, i.e. green transition, circular economy, digitalisation, and health care. On these components and their contents, the government adopted a separate government decision at the beginning of February this year. Demography and public education support the government's traditional demographic initiatives, which are now considered traditional in recent years, and will help to make the public education system more sustainable and modernised. With regard to the promotion of universities and higher education institutions and the promotion of science and innovation parks, we want to provide greater support for higher education than ever before and to create a link between the knowledge-intensive industry of industries and higher education. With regard to the catching up of settlements and regions, we will develop Hungary's most backward settlements by extending and continuing the programmes of the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, which had already started with pilot character. This first concerns three hundred settlements, the majority of which, according to our experience, come from the Roma community. We provide them with development programmes tailored to situation, life situation, local characteristics. In the water management component, we want to solve the restoration of Hungary's water management capabilities damaged in recent decades, mainly by supporting measures to reduce the damage caused by floods and to restore the natural habitats in Hungary. With regard to sustainable green transport, we will focus primarily on rail infrastructure, electric bus networks, with a focus on strengthening transport links between the capital and its agglomeration. Energy, i.e. greening - As regards the component, we will address the capacity of weather-dependent renewable energy networks to host central networks, the development of new solar power plants, geothermal power plants, local, localised local power plants. And the circular economy, in this respect we are not telling you anything new, will help us to recycle waste in the matter, so that we do not get waste on the depots. With the digitalisation component, in line with the DIMOP programme already presented, we will promote all the goals that will help to develop the digital skills of the economy and society in European comparison. And last but most importantly in this respect, the health component, where basically we place the emphasis on strengthening the hospital network infrastructure, basic care services and better recognition of doctors and nurses. Honourable Members, Dear House, The Government of Hungary is prepared and based on the experience and work of our excellent experts on the definition of the objectives of the next development policy cycle, the efficient planning of the use of resources. My experience with recent months is that although this is rarely reflected in the Hungarian public discourse, we are very close to the common expectations and objectives of the European Union with Hungarian development goals and Hungarian development strategies. Later in the debate, we may have the opportunity to talk about how we are in the negotiations with the Commission in Europe and ask for your proposals, or critical comments, to establish a single national position towards the European Union. We hope that the European Commission and the Council will approve all of our development programmes in the summer of this year and that we will be able to implement more intensive development policy programmes in Hungary in the next six or ten years. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will continue to present the government declaration. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to add a few points to what the Secretary of State said. At the beginning of the debate, it is worth clarifying one thing, namely how we look at EU funds in Hungary. It is a common approach to regard them as kind of relief gifts, but we do not view them this way, not because this money is due to Hungary, because it is compensation because we have opened up our markets and have given up certain economic protection measures. I will no longer open the debate here that it is not impossible for net contributor countries to make better money on net benefit countries if we also take into account the scale of these money flows back to them. As far as history is concerned, it is not surprising that we have talked about this in this House, but this government has also taken on a very serious legacy from left-wing governments in the area of EU funds. The primary reason for this is that the resources of the 2007-13 EU development cycle have been redesigned in such a way that only 17 percent of them were linked to economic development. What was due was called wrong. Only 15 percent of the funds were called off until the 2010 government change. In 2010, even the European Commission thought that if there was no change, Hungary would be able to draw up up up to 65% of the available resources. Now, that's what left-wing expertise is all about. Compared to this, thanks, among other things, to the institutional development changes, Hungary drew the available funds with 109 percent result, which guaranteed a total call for funds. In addition, the second Orbán government has already adapted the funding structure for the next cycle, 2014-20, with 60 percent of it being possible to serve economic development goals. This directly helped to protect and create jobs. Allow me to put it this way: I also quote a prominent foreign observer to support the effective use of EU funds. I quote: the Cohesion Funds, the Structural Funds, were created to promote convergence within the EU, and if we look at the Hungarian economic growth rates, we can see that this money has been invested well by the country and that it is for the benefit of the people. These were the words of German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Sopron. It is also worth looking at how the individual amounts of support have evolved during each EU budget period. Between 2007 and 13, while a Hungarian citizen received HUF 660,000 in development funds, this figure increased to HUF 712,000 between 2014 and 2020. As regards the Hungarian prospects for the next seven-year financial framework, Viktor Orbán was able to achieve significant results in the summer negotiations in 2020. In 2018 prices, the seven-year framework for Hungary, essentially thanks to the British exit, will be reduced from €37.7 billion to €32.9 billion, but with the creation of an EU recovery fund, the funds available to Hungary could increase to € 51.6 billion overall. We can now ask the question, after such a background, why, under left-wing governments, we were worse off in terms of resources, fewer resources were available, and Hungary called them off worse. In addition to the policy differences, there is a phenomenon here that I would like to draw attention to, namely that the left is in financial cooperation with Brussels, and this obviously dulls the possibilities of advocacy. The Gyurcsány family business already concluded a framework contract with the European Commission on a significant amount in 2014, and it alone would be worth a huge debate in this House on how they could trust an analysis of the use of EU funds to a company that is so directly linked to an ex-Prime Minister and an active political leader. And really, I wonder how they could expect an objective assessment of the situation from a company that is so obviously connected to the leader of the opposition. And we also know that this company has supported the Democratic Coalition with significant amounts, so it is also possible that the Brussels funds landed directly in the party register. Now I will not go into the fact that many of the company's officials were in high positions during the period when the drawdown of EU funds went worse. [[15.50]] Moreover, how EU funds were drawn during left-wing governance makes me more aware of metro four than anything else. According to the British authorities, only 600 million bribes were moved on this one project. In addition, according to OLAF's investigation, a third of the nearly 500 billion investment was lost. Such damage could not have happened without corruption. So it is no wonder that the investment finally cost four times the amount originally planned. It also says a lot about left-wing practice that, quite amazingly, the IT system managing EU funds has been outsourced to a private company, an Ltd. Because of this case, the Hungarian state could have suffered damage of an amount of 18 billion dollars. I would like to talk about one more important aspect, Mr House, and how EU funds are being used. One of the most important results is that much more Hungarian businesses and much more Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises will receive support in the current applications. Based on the data of the Public Procurement Authority, in 2009 the proportion of public procurement awarded by small and medium-sized enterprises was 39 per cent, while in the first half of 2020, 85 per cent of the tenders were awarded to small and medium-sized enterprises. If we approach this case from the amount won, it will be transferred from HUF 100 to 68 small and medium-sized Hungarian companies. As regards the way in which the procedure was carried out, in the first three quarters of 2020, there were an average of 6.2 offers in each procedure, i.e. the public procurement market is characterised by competition. The percentage of negotiated procurement without notice is 6 per cent. It's the same as in Holland. Meanwhile, in Romania, this ratio is 14 per cent and in Bulgaria, 29 per cent. Moreover, and I would like to stress this in particular, compared to the pre-2010 exercise, the current public procurements are limited to companies with a well-known ownership background. It wasn't like that before. The reason why we can argue about who will receive EU support in Hungary today is because everyone has to make the ownership background public. That wasn't your practice. So, to sum up: Hungary is now able to manage more EU funds and spend EU money more effectively, in a transparent way. The direct result of this is that more Hungarian businesses benefit from them, and much more small and medium-sized enterprises. And ultimately this means that EU funds, EU funds, are good for strategic goals, job protection, job creation, economic growth and ultimately for all Hungarians to feel this in their own lives. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. And thank you very much for keeping the time frame to a maximum. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The Fidesz Group indicated that the group's position was presented by two of its speakers. I'll give the floor to Erik Bánki first. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union's resources to Member States should serve to develop the economy, support businesses and improve people's living conditions. When we are discussing the use of EU funds and its effectiveness, we should first and foremost focus on these objectives. The adoption of the annual EU budget between 2021 and 2027 led to a long and rugged path, but finally the European Parliament confirmed the decision of the Heads of State or Government, contributing to the adoption of the EU budget of EUR 1800 billion and the recovery fund over the seven years. The Polish-Hungarian cooperation was once again successful, thanks to which Hungary has not only protected the EU's financial resources for Hungarians, but finally, as Mr.Secretary of State mentioned in the expozee, thanks to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's trial and the effectiveness of the trial, we can use EUR 2 billion more in the cohesion fund to make the most of the less-favoured areas, namely the development of the settlements where the most deprived people live in Hungary. I could compare that, ladies and gentlemen, with those of us who have been sitting here in Parliament since 1998 when, during the first joint development budget, the Poles were able to ask for a special funding fund of EUR 1 billion to support agriculture at that time. We have seen the results that have been achieved in the coming years in order to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of Polish agriculture. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is indeed a very serious result. The agreement also confirmed that no political conditions could be imposed on Hungarians for the allocation or use of funding under the EU Treaty. If it had depended on the attitude of the representatives of opposition parties in Parliament and of their fellow Members in the European Parliament, this decision would obviously not have been possible. With this agreement, we have managed to defend Hungary's sovereignty, our right to decide for ourselves on any matter that falls within national competence. There cannot be a single ideology or political issue in which anyone can force their will on us; it cannot be that the political accusations made by the left are reflected in the decisions taken in the EU institutions. During the budgetary negotiations, the Hungarian Left mobilized all its energies on how to harm Hungary, the Hungarian citizens. He has worked to take away and reduce the subsidies we owe; to gain political advantage for Hungary itself at the expense of it and to use it for the legislative elections in 2022. Dear House, In terms of figures, therefore, Hungary's share of the next seven years' development resources will be EUR 30.8 billion, i.e. nearly HUF 11 000 billion. If we add the amounts of the next Generation programme, the European Fund for Reconstruction, then we will be able to spend nearly HUF 51.6 billion, i.e. at today's prices, in the next seven years, in order for the Hungarian economy to be able to start again; so that the Hungarian economy can return to development and growth; so that the Hungarian economy can grow twice as in the period before the crisis, and in the years that followed. To do this, however, we all need to work together. In view of the Hungarian objectives of the period 2021-2027, the most important thing in our view is that the recovery of the economy should take place as soon as possible, that we can create the same number of jobs in the field of employment as the crisis has taken away from us and that we can further strengthen the resilience of the Hungarian economy. Our aim is to make Hungary one of the five most livable Member States of the European Union by 2030. If there are businesses, if there are jobs, there will also be catching up in Hungary, there can be no doubt about that. During the next period, green development and digital development will also be given much more emphasis than before. And this is not only going to happen, ladies and gentlemen, because this is what the European Commission expects of Hungary, but also because Hungary, the Hungarian Government, feels it is important. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to mention the decision to adopt a recovery fund in addition to the EU budget in relation to the corona virus pandemic. This is to enable economic growth to resume as quickly as possible and to make the necessary structural changes that European countries, European governments, need to build a more stable economy and, moreover, more resilient to crises. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungary is also at the forefront, because, even during the crisis, we can say that although the performance of the Hungarian economy has fallen, this is not a miracle in the light of external circumstances, but we have been able to come out of this crisis even more, stronger than our competitors, compared to the average of the European Union. We can have no other purpose than to increase the quantity of vaccine purchases than to ensure that as many of our countrymen as possible are in a position to receive the vaccine, because then we can do full work again, we can restore the economy to its original state if this unpredictability caused by the virus epidemic is eliminated in Hungary. [[16.00]] The Hungarian government is also performing excellently, as we see the data day by day: we are the second Member State of the European Union that has been able to take the most vaccinations in proportion to the population. According to the forecasts, we expect that by the end of May all our countrymen will be able to receive vaccination for this. I would also like to ask everyone who has not yet done so to register, even if they do not agree with this, because it is in our common interest that we achieve the appropriate level of vaccination and thus end the epidemic in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, The civil government, as it has done so far, continues to stand up for the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. It is important for us that the allocation of EU funds over the period 2021-27 is as effective as the previous period, i.e. 2014-20. The figures show that Hungary is among the most dynamic developing countries in Europe. We are working to continue the upward path in the future, and Hungary will have the highest possible position among the EU Member States. We will not allow anyone to blackmail Hungary with EU funds. We will face all attempts to challenge this. We protect Hungary, we protect Hungarian people and our achievements since 2010, because Hungary and the Hungarian people are the first for us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-03-22-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. The main speech of the Fidesz Group will be continued by Congressman Richárd Hörcsik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-219	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that today's debate day initiative of our opposition fellow Members can be well integrated into the usual functioning of Parliament, as it is a tradition to hold a debate on the resources made available by the European Union. However, I believe that today's debate deserves special attention to the extent to which what has been said here shape the previous positions of the authors, and it is, of course, correct and appropriate to examine how the Government has performed its tasks in preparing and channelling the use of resources. I would just like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that we have consulted the representatives of the government on several occasions in the Committee on European Affairs, and that, therefore, anyone who reads the minutes may obviously have the right knowledge on this subject as well. Ladies and gentlemen, However, with regard to today's debate, there is a fear that more people would like to repolitize a matter in which I believe that there should be a national consensus. It would be good if the debate on the use of HUF 18 500 billion in development and crisis management resources, available for Hungary in the period 2021-2027, was not intended to redefine professional issues. The major strategic objectives, to which the government will define the use of resources, will be defined in EU legislation, as Mr Secretary of State has said. However, in the proposals before us, the Members, who, I might say, would like to ignore the principle of subsidiarity, would like to transfer all national powers to the Union and the resources for the debate day, as Mr Csaba Dömötör mentioned, would like to present it as some kind of donation, and not as the acquired right of our membership or as compensation for the waivers of powers of membership, are mistaken. Also when it is claimed that this is probably the last development framework and when it is said that that source cannot flow through corruption channels. I believe that these sentences, which have been published in the press for the past six months, are very revealing, and that there are forces moving to shrink the development framework for Hungary or to serve other purposes. But how much the public could have listened to the good relations that European politicians in the parties who have initiated this debate today have had in Brussels! If nothing else, it is a national matter, my honourable Members, that instead of attacking our country, the aim should be to preserve and use resources effectively, for which all parties can move, regardless of their direction in EU policy. This is also the case with reference to the legality of the use of resources. Those who have left us, as the Secretary of State has said, projects such as subway investment, often try to make our country look bad. So the attitude is telling, but I believe that the parties of government are ready to debate to bring professional arguments first and foremost forward. Ladies and gentlemen, New aid hat adopted in view of the epidemic the recovery and resistance tool, which is thus shortened to RRF, which in this situation has a special value. For Hungary, HUF 5760 billion was foreseen, of which 62 percent are loans and 38 percent are non-refundable grants. We need to talk about a new instrument and thus a new system, a new approach, which requires consultation and learning, among other things, because only the projects that have been implemented, the so-called milestones, will be eligible twice a year, i.e. on the basis of partial performances, there will be no possibility of drawing the funds to the Union. And we also need to talk about the RRF because one third of the budget for the nine components of the programme focused on climate and environmental objectives concerns transport development, i.e. it prioritises one of the most important objectives of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a cliché, but the future of our country, depending on the human and transport infrastructure, is to get from our place of residence to our destination within a competitive period of time or not. This also requires environmentally friendly, comfortable Community transport vehicles and network organisation that provides the most optimal timetables and services for everyone. From the track side, we could list important results. Since 2010, the list of electrified railway lines has been continuously expanded. I am pleased to mention, for example, the electrification of the Sátoraljaújhely-Mezőzombor line. Then a number of new roads will be refurbished, such as the Miskolc-Kassa M30 motorway crossing the Via Carpatia European Roads Constituencies in October this year. Then highways are built, for example, in my narrower Patria, the four-tracking of the Highway 37 between Gesztely-Luck, which has just begun in the spring. I'm not gonna tell you any more. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the intentions of the authors, I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members to make their suggestions to this House with a positive intention. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-03-22-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Group has also indicated that their group's position is presented by two of its Members. I'll ask Mr. Group Leader if you'll start, Mr. Group Leader, or... [[For signal:]] Balczó. Thank you very much. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó. You have the floor, please.
u2021-03-22-221	We want to step up the speaker's speech, so Mr President will be the second. EU funds available between 2021-27 represent a huge opportunity for Hungary to use them properly, not to commit the crimes and mistakes of the past decade and a half. The multi-annual financial framework and the joint fund of the next generation of funds can be called down to HUF 15 000 billion, a huge amount of money, and the EUR 3500 billion that we can take up as our own loan. So far, it was doubtful how much we were going to live with it or not, but here I hear that we are counting with HUF 18 500 billion. In the case of borrowing, it should be added that it is an indebted country. In April 2010, the government debt was HUF 19 300 billion; today it is HUF 36 400 billion. This increase is 43 percent in terms of 32 percent cumulative inflation, while Viktor Orbán stated in 2011 that sovereign debt is the main enemy, it is necessary to fight it, because otherwise he will defeat us. [[16.10]] Of course, it is true that this amount is due to us, but it comes with what it is given and must be used. What are the sins that should not be committed? Yes, corruption, fraud of EU funds. Secretary of State Dömötör was willing to talk about the period before 2010, and obviously he was still burdened with corruption. The diversion of EU funds has become industrial under the Orbán government. Now let's not mention the big cases we know, but something almost comical, but sad and characteristic in other ways. This is how it is: build lookout points from EU funds. In 2009, a 40-inch lookout tower was built for 40 million HUF in Bodrogkeresztúr. Under the Orbán government, Tyukod, in the village of Szabolcs, with 2 thousand inhabitants, was built 11 lookout points with an EU grant of HUF 264 million. I could give you further examples of public but private pensions, hunting houses, training centres. So it is not only the oligarchs that need to be fattened with EU money, but also those at the lower level of the pyramid that need to be given something. However, an example of the top of the pyramid: as a Member of the European Parliament, I saw how much worse Hungary's credibility was when the Elios case became clear. Why was that so important? Because the Prime Minister was involved in family matters, because the amount was not limited to HUF 13 billion, and OLAF did not simply find an irregularity, but said that it was showing signs of organised crime. And there's no consequence, except for the Hungarian taxpayers, because they finally paid for it. All this opposition accusations? Let us see what recommendation the Council of Ministers has given to the Hungarian convergence programme! The Commission's audit of public procurement in recent years has revealed systemic shortcomings. The investigation and prosecution activities appear to be less effective in Hungary than in other Member States. There is no decisive and systematic action to prosecute high-level corruption in the Council. But these are the very shortcomings that make it possible to maintain the feudal chain and power of Fidesz. That is why we are not joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and that is why Viktor Orbán wanted to prevent the so-called state-of-law condition from being introduced when paying the EU budget. This rule-of-law mechanism gives the Commission the opportunity to retain the funds provided for in the EU's adopted budget from countries which are in breach of the requirements. These requirements, on the other hand, have narrowed down to basically just spending money properly. Orbán actually accepted this at the EU summit in December, but now he has turned to the European Court of Justice about this regulation. Fidesz still communicates that they want to punish us for ideological reasons. Of course, we can understand that if we consider the Ten Commandments an ideological basis, then the 7th commandment would be punished, yes, for ideological reasons. And what mistakes must not be made again? Of course, there is a need for infrastructure investments, but the proportion of these investments does not matter. We need less stone and concrete, more support for value-creating enterprises, more human resources. The primary strategic partners should not be multinational companies, but Hungarian-owned SMEs. Minister Gergely Gulyás mentioned the way in which we need to find the place and role of the multinationals. That's right, but let me just bring something up here about what we can expect for a lot of discounts. Despite competitive corporate tax at international level, our country is one of the losers of multinational companies' profit transfer practices. In 2017, so many profits were transferred from Hungary to tax havens, which took away the NAV from tax revenues of nearly HUF 200 billion. Now, in June, it finally looks like an EU regulation is in place to make it mandatory to account for the amount of profits made, where and where corporate tax was paid, above the turnover of large companies operating in the EU, which are established there. You have to come out to the light. The Hungarian Government voted against this regulation, but, of course, it was born. Let me go back to why I consider it important to support SMEs. They provide two thirds of the jobs of the entire business sector, more than half of which are micro-enterprises with a maximum of 9 employees. They must be supported in creating the greatest added value and creating quality jobs. The government is talking about a work-based society, it's right, where there's work, there's everything. There is everything if it also provides a livelihood, but the net of the public employees does not provide a living of HUF 73,000, depending on their qualifications. The Illiberal State of Orbán restricts freedoms and, at the same time, subordinates innovation culture, individual entrepreneurship, creative power to the aspects of power centres. In this way, it is not possible to build a truly competitive economy and to keep ambitious, creative young people at home. The future of our country is in the knowledge economy. In this it is worth investing in knowledge, innovation, companies compete under clean conditions, the best bidder gets a state order, and the owners of a successful company do not have to fear that the favorites of the power cast an eye on the enterprise they have built. In order to ensure a reasonable and fair distribution of development resources, governments and local government associations should work together to develop meaningful and implemented plans and then control the use of funds. Let us add that there is no modern, persistently successful and well adapted economy without respect for workers' rights. The flexibility of the labour market increases the efficiency of the economy, but it is not possible to build a successful economy on the vulnerability of workers on a permanent basis. We need a new code of work. To sum up, the effective use of EU funds, which is a historic opportunity for the next seven years, the current economic and social system must be changed. If you like it, I say that change of government is not the priority, but change of the economic and social system. But it became clear that Fidesz couldn't do that. I asked the Prime Minister last time about his intention to change his economic policy. What answer did I receive that could be assessed from the answer? Technically, no. Since the current power has been proven unwilling to change, a change of government is necessary. So that this country can set off on a path that will provide freedom and prosperity, but not just for the privileged, but for everyone. [[Intercom from Jobbik's ranks, so be it. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-22-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. The keynote speech will be continued by Mr. Peter James. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-223	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! I have one question: where is the money? Where? ! Since our accession to the EU in 2004, I repeat once a day in this country, an average of HUF 2.2 billion per day of EU funding has been received. Where is this money? The employees obviously don't have it. If it were in the workers' pocket, today the Hungarian worker would make as much money as his colleague in Western Europe. Compared to this, we are now at the point that the Romanian wage level is ahead of Hungarian. Then where's the money? [[To Csaba Dömötör:]] Don't laugh, Mr. Secretary. You've got money in your pocket, because you're getting a million-dollar reward. But what's in the pensioner's pocket? A monthly average of 140 thousand HUF is the Hungarian pension today. [[Dr. Pál Völner: And yours?]] It is a shame that 40,000 of our countrymen live in Hungary, who are forced to come out of a pension of less than 50,000 forints per month! 50,000 forints of pension! Is this the catch-up for you? Is that what the EU money was for? ! [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: six million!]] [[16.20]] Tell you here that pensions have increased by 40 percent since 2010. Yeah, and the prices are twice that. Paris and potatoes have become more than 80 percent more expensive than 80 percent since 2010. That's what you guys got the money for? ! [[Noise.]] The EU has given money since 2004, not to be eaten by you and to give your own rewards, but to catch up with the Western European level, so that Hungarian health care is finally waiting for patients with modern tools and paid workers so that Hungarian education can prepare for the 21st century. To the challenges of our young people of the century, so that Hungarian entrepreneurs not only get tax burdens, but also opportunities to finally not only close prices to the Western level, but also wages and pensions. Colleagues! You have all the financial means to create a Hungary of well-being. They didn't take that chance. With EU money, the country was not enriched, not by workers, not by pensioners, but by a well-organized, well-built gang of criminals. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: That's right!]] He's head of the slimy, officially one of the poorest people in the country. According to his statement of assets, after 30 years of representation, he doesn't have a single HUF savings. Of course, I get it, he doesn't urinate from his own savings, he urinates from the savings of Hungarian people. You said the other day that during the months of the crisis, Hungarian families were able to save almost one million forints on average. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Wow. Where is this money? Who knows? It's in the concrete of the stadiums, on board luxury machines, luxury yachts, in the hotel of Lőrinc Mészáros and in the diamond ring of the new woman, in the fidesz palaces and in the fidesz purses. We've got the money, fellow Members, we've got the money, we've only got the money in the wrong place, we've got the money in the wrong place. [[I don't know why you're yelling.]] To give the Hungarian people this allowance! And, yes, we're not gonna settle for it, we're not gonna settle for you guys robbing this country and robbing it. You must take back the money you stole from the Hungarian people! And yes, it is a pleasure for me that we opposition party presidents have decided and written that a new era will be opened, from 2022 the new national unity government will end corruption once and for all, we will put an end to my brother-in-law world, we will carry out accountability and we will connect Hungary to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, because a nation cannot be looted without penalty, especially during a crisis, and that is exactly what you are doing when EU support is not being given to the Hungarian people even now, in the months of crisis, but you are keeping it to yourself. By the way, the European Union intends to give Hungary €40 million in aid. Well, that's talkative, isn't it? So the Hungarian government gives sympathy to those in distress, and Brussels gives money. In order not to enrich Orbán, not Ripper, and not the other freeloaders, I would like to inform the Parliament that Jobbik has sent a letter to the President of the European Commission proposing to the European Union not to give this money to the corrupt Hungarian thief government, but to give it to the troubled Hungarian people. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] With this money, not more stadiums should be built, not fidesz palaces, but bread on the table of those who can hardly afford bread. We will, of course, inform you of the answer. Thank you for your attention. Prosperity for all Hungarians! (Applause in Jobbik's ranks. )
u2021-03-22-224	Thank you very much. Dear House, The KDNP Group also indicated that the Group's position was presented by two of its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I had a hunch this wasn't gonna be a professional debate. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Peter James convinced me that it was not. [[Peter James: Don't steal!]] Nevertheless, we are trying to talk about what would be the subject of this debate. My fellow Member, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, will talk about the budgetary cycle ahead and the details of the New Generation and the Re-launch Fund, and I would like to look at how we have come to this point, yet behind us are two EU budgetary cycles, which, by the way, have very important experiences in themselves. As a basic principle, we can certainly state what has already been said here, that EU funds are not Western donations to us, so we are also in touch with cohesion funds. In particular, we do not regard them as a charity, because these resources, which come from the net contributor countries, a good part of them migrate back to where they were sent, and we do not say so, but the former Commissioner of the European Commission, Mr Oettinger, said that 80 percent of these funds migrate back. In addition, we have opened up our markets to capital-powered western businesses, so it is clear that these resources will be our compensation. Like I said, there are two cycles behind us. The first cycle was put together by socialist, left-wing governments, and the 14-20 by the Fidesz-KDNP government. I think that there are two aspects through which it is worth looking at. One is the process of drawing, its rules, the priorities of resources, how user-friendly they are. The second aspect is the effectiveness of cohesion resources, i.e. how and how these resources contributed to Hungary's catch-up. If we look at the first aspect, what we can see is that in the first budget cycle, which was put together by the Socialists, we saw that there was a paper application, a completely inadequate IT background, which put a huge burden on applicants and on the institutional system itself. This was the reason why, without major interventions, the country would have lost HUF 500 billion if it were up to the left-wing government. The first cycle, I think, and one of the symbols of the process of drawing was the IT system itself, the so-called EMIR, which was developed by the then socialist government with Welt 2000 Kft. How did this happen? A company was selected whose former owner was an MSZP municipal representative in Kőbánya. How was he chosen? Without tender, without competitive tendering, and at the time this company won this public procurement, the Deputy Chairman of the Development Agency was Klára Dobrev. The only thing on the cake is that for the state, a very unfavorable contract was signed by a deputy president who later was a research director in the family company of the Gyurcsányes, Altus. I would be very curious, by the way, what would Peter James say about the Welt 2000 case, if he had sat there in Parliament then, and I was only curious about it because they have now joined forces with them, with the Gyurcsányek, who were able to bring such a contract together, which made Hungarian businesses unable to apply well. If you look at the other aspect, what is the result of the first cycle? And I think the numbers here say more than a thousand words. Let us see how much EU funds have helped to eradicate Hungarian unemployment! 2007-08-09-10 data. In 2007, Hungarian unemployment was 7.4 percent, then 7.8, 10 and 11.2. So it has increased by more than 4 percent, despite the fact that EU funds have already come. The EU average only increased 2 percent, while the Hungarian 4th. But if we look at GDP figures, we see that in 2007 the socialist government was able to do the bravure of growing slower than the more developed European countries, in 2007 we see Hungarian economic growth of 0.2 per cent, economic growth of 3 per cent in the European Union, and in 2007 8-9-10 this was the case. So the figures clearly show that the left was misusing these resources, and Hungary did not approach the average of the European Union, but rather move away from it. So they did not use them well, using these resources in the opposite direction of their purpose and mission. One of the symbolic issues of the cycle is the subway investment, which ended up costing HUF 452 billion, and the Anti-Fraud Office said that Ferenc Gyurcsány was simply stolen out of HUF 452 billion. You have joined forces with them, Mr. Team Leader James. [[16.30]] But if we look at these two aspects for the next budget cycle, what can we see? Hungarian unemployment fell to 3.4 percent by 2019, so while unemployment in the EU was lower in the first cycle, it has now become higher, since 6.7 percent there, and if we look at economic growth, which shows that the country has used these resources well, we see that Hungary has always increased at least twice as much as the European Union: 4.3 percent in 2017, the European Union is only 2.7. In 2018, 5.4 percent, and the European Union only 2.1. In 2019 Hungarian growth is 4.6 percent, European growth is only 1.5 percent, so it is one third of the European Union. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] So based on these, it's very clear, and, well, Brenner Koloman, I know he's good at arguing with numbers, but the numbers, Congressman, they don't lie. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Average wage!]] These show that the use of resources in the time of the left-wing governments, with whom you have conspired, has gone wrong, has been ineffective because Gyurcsány's funds have been stolen, your allies have stolen it, and the use of resources has now served the purpose of effectively accessing Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, I am sure that the period ahead will also show that the current resources will be used effectively by the government in order to make Hungary the winner of the re-launch of the European economy once the epidemic has been overcome. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. The keynote speech of the KDNP Group will be continued by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The economic crisis caused by the pandemic affects all Member States and the European Union itself. However, we must stress that the agreement reached at the December Summit is a historic success for Hungary; it is a positive example and a negative example. This is a positive example, because we owe this agreement to a six-month struggle and to the solidarity of Polish-Hungarian friendship, and it is a negative example that our Balliberian MEPs have worked to bring the EU's financial resources to Hungarian people into Brussels funds rather than into the so-called envelopes of the Member States. It is therefore a historic success which was concluded in December by an agreement. If you look at the 27 Member States of the European Union, this will amount to EUR 1800 billion, the 2014-2020 and 27 multiannual financial framework and the next generation's EU recovery package. For Hungary, this is EUR 3.8 billion for RRF and EUR 51.6 billion is added to the next generation recovery package. And how is this historic Hungarian success unique? We have been able to increase our cohesion allocation to 20.6 billion. Here is the difference, the two billion euros in which Hungary can achieve a unique success among some Member States. It is important, and the Secretary of State has also stressed this: economic development, competitiveness, job creation and infrastructure, which is stressed in the financial framework 2021 and 27. It is important to see that there are two directions that receive the greatest support: one is the cohesion resource, which is HUF 9,147 billion. The second is the common agricultural policy, which is EUR 10,6 billion for RRF. Hungary is also unique at European Union level, because from 2021 the Hungarian government adds 80 percent to the resources coming through the rural development pillar instead of 17.5 percent. This is the highest rate of rural development co-financing in the European Union, HUF 3.310 bn (sic!) I'm out of here. There are policy objectives that involve smarter Europe, research and development, innovation, low carbon and greener Europe, focusing on a low carbon and sustainable European Union, a more interconnected Europe aimed at linking cycling and rail transport, a social Europe and a Europe closer to citizens. I would also like to highlight two important directions: green and digital development, which is very strongly emphasised in the frameworks available in 2021 and.27. Digitalisation: digitalisation is a key competitiveness factor, and in the next seven years HUF 2000 billion can be allocated to the development of domestic digitalisation. The other thing I would like to highlight, in particular, is that the Hungarian government has announced climate and nature conservation action, the energy efficiency operational programme. It has been very successful in recent years, since nearly 1866 Hungarian companies have been able to make energy efficiency investments. The next seven years provide a similar margin of manoeuvre. Effective management of the economic and social impacts of Covid and the re-launching of the economy are important. This is what the Instrument for Restoration and Resilience is for, under which Hungary can receive EUR 6.3 billion in grants and some EUR 10 billion in loans provided by the European Union. Polish-Hungarian success is important, and I would like to stress that Hungary joined a European Union in 2004 that respects national sovereignty, constitutional traditions and healthy competition. The European Union will only succeed if its 27 Member States are successful if Hungary is successful. Our aim is to be one of the five most livable EU Member States by 2030, and in December we managed to achieve with this agreement that we can obtain the European Union's financial resources for Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-228	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group, who will give his speech here on the platform. I'll wait for Mr. Group Leader to come up here on the platform. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, EU funds to Hungary in the period 2021-27 are essential for our country. This is another historic opportunity that can give us a chance. It can give us a chance to restore the distorted structure of Hungarian society and the economy. A 21st could give you a chance. It can also give a chance to build a fair, free and solidarityary Hungary, building a competitive economy based on sustainable green and digital solutions in the 20th century. The Hungarian Socialist Party knows this, and the Democratic parties who are allied with us see this chance. Ladies and gentlemen, This parliamentary debate is about a lot of money. We are debating the use of a lot of money today, but there is a prerequisite that if it is not met, we will spend time here unnecessarily. Hungary could fail this historic chance. This is the fulfilment of the conditions of the rule of law. This is what must, above all, be clarified and corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, This parliamentary debate is about the shame of Fidesz. In a normally functioning democratic country, the opposition does not initiate a debate on EU funds, but a debate on EU funds, but on government parties, after having a broad social dialogue on the country's plans. Such a dialogue, Mr. Secretary of State, even if you refer to it, there is neither and there has been. In a normally functioning democratic country, it is not a family picnic in the Highlands that decides what a country spends 18 500 billion forints on. Compared to that, we're seeing money coming, it's leaning on family and friends. In a normally functioning democratic country, could it be that, in times of crisis, the government does not use the means of crisis management available to it? [[16.40]] Because the Fidesz government has not applied for the residual money in the EU Employment Fund. In fact, the Fidesz regime has not yet ratified the legislation needed for EU reconstruction resources, which could pave the way for the use of more than HUF 5000 billion. It just doesn't make any sense. It is in our common interest that the EU source of development and crisis management should come. There is a crisis of opportunity, my fellow Members. That's the money the country needs, that's what normal people say. Compared to this, the Fidesz government is now playing to ensure that Hungary does not receive this money, or not then and not so much. The European Union pays these subsidies only to countries where the rule of law is in place. Although Fidesz seeks to set the rule of law criteria as some sort of vague attack, it is easy to disprove. We just need to clarify what the rule of law is and not some abstract concept. These questions are about very specific and ordinary things. For example, the rule of law is that the spending of EU aid is controlled by independent authorities. The rule of law is that everyone is equal before the authorities. And the Attorney General will also investigate the Minister or even the Prime Minister involved in the suspicion of corruption. The rule of law is that they do not attack the courts and execute their judgments. The rule of law is that independent newspapers and radios are not abolished. The rule of law is that they do not take away the autonomy of universities. It is the rule of law where the Labour Code does not make workers vulnerable. The rule of law is when no one in the vote has to take a picture of who they voted for. Fidesz is well aware that in such an investigation, the Orbán government would fail, and therefore the country could lose EU funds. They know that democracy has been dismantled and the rule of law has been abolished over the past ten years. What is left is only appearance; as we see a building, we see the facade of a building, but there is nothing behind it. They perceive this in the European Union and say that they are giving money to improve countries, not to be stolen by a narrow group. That's why they're setting conditions. And Fidesz is going to bust itself by protesting the rule of law mechanism. They know they'd be stuck in control because they're actually corrupt and anti-democratic. That's why they're protesting. It is a shame that theft is more important for Viktor Orbán and his government than for the country to have access to thousands of billions of forints. This is a betrayal of the Hungarian people and the country. (In the notary seat Tordai Bencét Replaced by gullible Dezso.) Ladies and gentlemen, This shameful hit-and-run characterizes the last 11 years of the Fidesz regime, because Hungarian people work a lot and well, which is why the Hungarian economy has grown over the past 10 years. However, because of the thefts of the Fidesz regime and the weakening of the forint, people see almost nothing of this growth. Even though many work hard, their salary increases nominally if a significant part of it is taken away by the deterioration of the forint. Since the forint is getting weaker, people are getting less and less money in shops and gas stations. Let's just say that Fidesz has brought people into a livelihood crisis. Even at the height of economic growth, more than two million people live below the minimum living standards. We have the lowest minimum wage in the Visegrád countries, converted to EUR 442. In the Czech Republic the minimum wage is EUR 579, in Poland EUR 614 and in Slovakia EUR 623. I can say the same thing as before: shame, shame of the Fidesz government! And in vain, Fidesz boasts of a 3.6 percent minimum wage increase this year, because it's actually just a break-off. Foods were twice as expensive last year. It is also a shame that over 300,000 unemployed people do not receive any benefits. And it's a shame that the Prime Minister simply denies these people as if they don't exist. The Fidesz regime is indebted to the country. Government debt in proportion to GDP increased from 67 per cent to 81,2 per cent. However, this record-high government debt was put together without a single forint to help poor people, families in serious situations. The Fidesz made a debt, the money was stolen, and the debt was paid by the people. Shame and shame! It is a shame that the social services system has been dismantled and social assistance is spent more than 5 percent less as a proportion of GDP than the EU Member States on average. It is a shame that 400,000 children today live in extreme poverty and that a third of young people do not imagine their future in Hungary. It's a shame that the Orbáns smashed up social security, put health care on the ground, the consequences of which we're seeing these weeks, months on our own. The livelihood crisis is also indicated by the fact that a large number of pensioners are living worse. More than half a million pensioners receive a pension below HUF 100,000 per month. More than two thirds of pensioners receive less than an average pension of HUF 135,000. Fidesz is giving it to people who already have it, and it's taking it away from people who barely have anything. Taxes on medium and higher incomes and taxes on capital have been reduced. The taxes on the smaller earners were increased, like a reverse Robin Hood. It is a shame that Fidesz collects more than 50 taxes on items other than people. This is how we come to the present, after 11 years of fidesz theft and damage: bleeding out of health, poverty millions, education sent to the floor, weakened forints, brutally expensive and empty democratic institutions. The Fidesz regime has weakened Hungary so much over the last 11 years as if our country were hit by a separate crisis. I have to admit, we thought that the current deadly epidemic and the devastating economic crisis may bring to light the fidesz grenaders. We thought that the suffering of people, the loss of jobs, the needy and grieving families would stop stealing and start working for the common good. Unfortunately, we already know it didn't happen. Viktor Orbán used the full power that fell on his lap to change the electoral system quickly and to fix the possibility of stealing public funds in the Fundamental Law without penalty. Three quarters of the HUF 3600 billion budget of the Economic Protection Fund was embezzled. They spent it on hunting exhibitions, space research, stadium construction, athletic centers, support for sports academies, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, the renovation of the Buda Castle, and thousands of other things that had nothing to do with crisis management. There would have been money to raise the family allowance, the family allowance, the lawn, the child, or even double it. There was money to catch up on low pensions. All jobs could have been saved. But the Fidesz government took all this money and spread it around for my friends. Fidesz has given Europe's narrowest job protection support. They didn't care about human deprivation. Meanwhile, 500 billion forints of public money, stock and many valuable properties were given to the Ma-thias Corvinus Collegium Foundation, thus filling a horriable amount of public assets in private pockets. Typically, while almost the entire country was destroyed, in the middle of the crisis, Lőrinc Mészáros, who collected the wealth of the Orbán family, was enriched with HUF 70 billion. Let's be clear: this isn't about protecting the economy, it's about fidesz robbery. But helping a living is also a way of saving lives. But the Fidesz regime doesn't care about people's suffering. Viktor Orbán and his people are only interested in maintaining power and stealing. That's why they're bleeding out local governments. They help crisis settlements everywhere in Europe, and they take away local government revenues. Free parking has nothing to do with the protection against the epidemic. The reduction of trade tax by half is only political revenge, as the Fidesz settlements get most of the money they take back, and the opposition will get as far as they can. Ladies and gentlemen, With such a background, we can rightly fear that the EU funds expected in the coming years will not be given to the country and not to the people, but will want to steal the Fidesz regime as much as it has done so far. [[16.50]] A lot of money is this HUF 18 500 billion extra EU resource, almost equal to the sum of a year of the total budget. This means that in the next seven years we will receive an extra year of budget money. That should be appreciated, not stolen and scattered. The MSZP therefore puts concrete proposals on the table. We believe that in using the next seven years' budget, people should be placed at the centre. Economic growth is not a goal, it is a tool, a means for the Hungarian people to live better. Support should be devoted to education, health, job creation, equal opportunities, social protection, the end of the housing crisis and a better livelihood for pensioners. Health needs to be highlighted, as the epidemic has shown that there are huge differences in the level of care in some countries. Special measures should be taken to reduce youth unemployment. We need a rental construction programme, which can be called down directly by the municipalities. It must be guaranteed that municipalities can also benefit directly from EU funding. It is necessary to establish a directly available fund from which significant medical and healthcare deficits can be reduced by local authorities with targeted support in their regions. Fight child poverty. A large-scale renovation programme should be launched where families can renovate their homes, Kádár's cubes, apartments in condominiums without credit and self-reliance, and the state has to organize this. The share of investments in the use of green energy should also be increased. Hungary is our country, Europe is our home, which we must strengthen along common principles, values and goals. Hungary can only be strengthened together with Europe. Fidesz has left the People's Party of Christian parties, has been driven out of decision making circles, drifting towards the far right. Every day the nation is taken down, the Hungarians are put on a bench of shame. Fidesz lost its battle in Brussels and isolated Hungary from the developed world. Mistakes are made, sin is built on sin, there is no other way, they must leave. But Hungary remains in Europe, where it has been for a thousand years. And it is our duty to ensure for the next seven years [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Our country's predictable development, the sure livelihood of the Hungarian people for our common future, Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-231	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. The circumstances and state of today's debate have led me to an unconventional attitude, and I would like to reflect immediately here at the outset on some of the statements made by the Secretary of State, which also stems from the fact that, when he was talking about vocational training in a typical manner and about its present and future, he scratched his head involuntarily, because he has no idea what is happening there, what has been caused by what you have otherwise interfered with. But let's translate what you've started to say here. For example, one of the typical sentences of this was that until 20, 60 percent of the funds you committed were transferred. So this is all you have been able to achieve so far, and now the planning of what will be after 2021 has begun. What has been said about this and what has been said so far, I think that such selfish, cynical and hypocritical sentences have not yet been said in this Parliament. What you are saying about your efforts, Mr Secretary of State, in the situation you are in, what you are doing, I think that is unacceptable in itself. It is only because it is true that there was a lot of money involved, and that you have negotiated, and with whatever volume, however many surfaces you say you have been more effective, the fact is that the outcome of the negotiations of the Orbán government was two-way. One: it was reduced compared to before; two: that, by the way, what they were about to veto is now taken as a loan, and they are trying to spend it alone, which, I think, is the next step of hypocrisy and cynicism. You are talking about being one of the five most livable Member States. All right, we just don't agree on who belongs to the most livable category, because according to you, what you think about, as I define it, those people are already living in the five most livable countries, but there are more than nine million people in this country who don't feel that way at all, and for him it hasn't become smarter, it's not greener, it's not social. They're spending more than ever, you said, Secretary of State. Mr Secretary of State, you know that, by the way, compared to the situation of ten or a few years ago, when four members of the regions of Hungary were the least disadvantaged, they were among the poorest regions in Europe, as they are now. Therefore, the fact that you have spent billions of euros over the past period is virtually nothing of this. As I said, the VET institutional system is completely disintegrated, and it will not be a growing country or a healthier country as a result of what you have done. I'm just saying quietly that in 2009, we used 0.6 percent of the country's GDP to protect the environment, 10 years later, 0.4 percent below you. Ten years ago, more than ten years ago, the country uses 5.2 percent, and now 4.7 percent, from 18.1 percent to 13 percent in social care. Once again, however powerful they are to tell the lie, it remains a lie, and no matter how much they try to tell the lie on the expropriated media platforms under party state conditions. Are you talking about Roma? ! One step has not been taken in their behalf, but only a few people who are otherwise exemplary compared to this. But, Mr. Secretary, why you do not know, and why I say that you do not have the faintest sense of what you are talking about, you say in your speech that planning will thus, in this way, rely on the integrated urban development strategy, Mr. Secretary, you have submitted that all of them will be abolished and that this right will be taken away from the municipalities. What kind of cooperation are you talking about? ! The Parliament is discussing what you are referring to, and otherwise nothing is happening in this regard, and the institutional system in which the municipalities would have had the opportunity to intervene is now being abolished. That I want to develop Balaton and Tokaj? Well, one of them's been stolen before, I'd say bought, and the other one's been stolen for the last three years. They've monopolized it for themselves, and I understand that they're expecting a lot of money there, and we've been listening to a lot of Members here over the last few days about how they're doing it anyway. In the context of GINOP's GINOP support for small businesses and micro-enterprises, I could say that it could be commendable, but at least no one could understand anything about it. On the other hand, it is because, when you refer to the TOP and its effectiveness, honourable Secretary of State, you know that in the process that has taken place so far, part of the Fidesz MEPs who are cramming side by side in the distribution process are heading towards prison for exactly what they have done and how they have done it. This is what you want to rely on again, and this is what you want to continue. This is why it is infinitely outrageous that when you are otherwise in a better absence, because you cannot do anything else, because in the European Union you mention the possibility of using the facility for more than 6,000 billion forints, and the possibility of using the facility, in this framework you are hypocritically saying how important this is for you, while this day was created only because the opposition initiated it, and you would have failed to talk to anyone about it, not to those young people for whom you are supposed to do something about it. [[17.00]] What did you say, Secretary of State, that's going to be used for? Reforms and investments. And the people? What about them? What about the kids? What about the people they're planning to do that for? Instead, you guys are going to continue the lying robbery in a hypocritical way, which, by the way, you've never been able to get rid of before. A circular economy, Mr. Secretary? By the way, getting waste out with a concession into your buddy's hands is gonna be the circular economy for you? When, by the way, this has been prepared in this way at the end of the last year, rushing, legislatively, and then, by the way, they want to take the money there. That's not fair, Mr. Secretary. This has nothing to do with future generations, and in this way, I think it is not worth talking about. Then Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör..., sorry, Deputy Minister joined this glorious story, because the beneficiaries who contributed to it are sitting next to each other. They may have reached 109 percent, but 50 percent of them were stolen. That's why people who got caught go to jail, or they were so stupid, it happened anyway. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: Were you smarter?]] And that is why I think that what you are doing is unacceptable from this point of view, and while the source has been reduced, the government led by Viktor Orbán has reached concessions, so, Mr. Secretary of State, I can quote you here that when you took over, it is when you took over the government. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What?]] The competent European leader wrote that the European Commission is particularly satisfied with the implementation of the programmes, that the results are extremely satisfactory by the end of 2009 and that I could quote the letter. Yeah, I'm telling you again, lying out loud doesn't mean it's not gonna be justice. And that's why you, who, by the way, claimed that that period was ineffective, which is why I'm saying it, among other things, and it could be supported by data. But if one of the reasons for their hypocrisy were to be removed and not for OLAF and OLAF, let us say that they would open up all the details of the truth, then the result would be that the Orbán government would join the European Public Prosecutor's Office as an active step, thereby recognising that it would open and transparent its use itself. Instead, what are they doing? Like I said before, half of it's stolen. So, they seem to be explaining in advance, and in this way they are trying to frame the truth with lies, even for that reason, Mr. Secretary of State or Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister, when they point out to us what rules they were, there was the toughest rule of conflict of interest at the time. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lőrinc Nacsa: That's why Klára Dobrev was Deputy Head of the Development Agency!]] a single Member could not have had access to it and had no access to support. As your first decision, you have abolished the conflict of interest law, and so many of you have to declare how European funds are being used, because this situation, too, is being abused. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Sukoro!]] I initiated in the Committee on Budgets to clarify what economic and budgetary situation they had created by the end of the year in 2020; two: the way out of this situation and the way out they are planning for the future, with these resources coming from the European Union, what they are planning to do with them and how they intend to involve local governments and civil society organisations. I have initiated three committee meetings on these three issues and, moreover, the Fidesz and pro-government representatives have not attended one such occasion. Technically, like I said, they're trying to make the whole situation disappear. While you have been discussing this with the European Union since last summer and trying to do the best possible political peacock dance on the one hand and pull it off from another side, I would say, in such a parasite way to draw the money from there, only, Mr State Secretary, how serious you are about social consultation if you go up to your own government website, you can see that, for example, the document on public education that you referred to was uploaded on 19 March, which is three days ago. So much for you, let's say, your contribution and your help in how to think about it. A hundred words have one end, you have been negotiating for too long, and have done a lot, in terms of spending a lot of money, which, by the way, results from the fact that, according to statistics from the European Union, there are 1 million 800 thousand people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 837 thousand people living in severe material deprivation, 348 thousand people living in households with very low work intensity. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] This is the result or the result of what you have done in recent years. In the 17 counties of the country, the income is below the average salary of 244 thousand forints, in 17 counties, honourable Members, who want to help people in their Christian spirit. There's only one problem: people are forgotten and ignored. So I suggest that you do not be so incorrigible. Since there is a change of government, we are here in a situation and in a situation where we are talking about the use of resources that determine Hungary's future and, above all, the opportunities of future generations, do not be so selfish, talk to Hungary, talk to people who are involved in this, and give us the opportunity, or create the conditions that money will not be spent, and otherwise, they will only drive themselves forward, not by arbitrary means, selfishly. I therefore expect you to act in a cooperative manner with this opposition. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-03-22-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP Group also indicated that the Group's position was presented by two of its speakers. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-233	[[Without sound:]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, LMP initiated... [[Intercoms: Microphone!]]
u2021-03-22-234	Wait a minute, you don't have a voice yet. Please give it to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Is there a technical problem? [[Erzsébet Schmuck: I don't know.]] The mike's up. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: And I would also like the time to be restored.]] I'd like a hand mike for the congresswoman, please. [[Erzsébet Schmuck has a hand microphone placed in front of her.]]
u2021-03-22-235	Thank you very much, now maybe you can...
u2021-03-22-236	Thank you very much. That's where the clock starts. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-22-237	Thank you very much. Dear House, The LMP has initiated today in Parliament to discuss the government's plans for the next seven-year budget plan for the European Union and the details of the recovery fund. I thank my fellow opposition Members for their support for this initiative, although I note that the opposition should not have initiated this debate day, it was the government's job to bring it to Parliament, because it is our future. We are in a position, ladies and gentlemen, to face decisive years, to face huge challenges, just because of the effects of the epidemic, while from the other side we have a huge sum of HUF 18 060 billion, as the Secretary of State has said precisely in his expo, and therefore it does not matter at all how we spend this huge amount of money for what tasks, for purposes and how we spend it. [[17.10]] We know that the government must submit to Brussels before 30 April a plan for the use of funds, on which a social consultation must be held. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this social consultation has been rather superficial and rather quiet precisely because the government has only published a sketchy plan and, on the other hand, has not received enough publicity that there is a social dialogue on this, unlike the national consultations initiated by the government. We are sure that this would have been worth a national consultation, because it is really about our future. We therefore expect the government to publish its detailed plans, because a substantive debate can only be held in the light of these detailed plans, and we also expect the government to give people a real opportunity to participate. I must also draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that a well-founded plan can only be drawn up on the basis of a comprehensive, well-subsidised assessment of the situation, which includes, by the time we have used the funds received in the last seven years, the results of which have served the country's sustainable development, the improvement of people's standard of living, the quality of life, the strengthening of social cohesion, the catching-up of areas underdeveloped, the preservation of a healthy environment and of our natural capital. Such an assessment has a place here in Parliament, but I think that we will also not see it, because, in our experience, in reality, the spending of EU money in recent times has served these objectives with little or no goodwill. In the coming years, we must prepare for fundamental changes and fundamentally transform our social and economic policies, so that we can face the worsening global challenges. This has already been recognised by the European Union, and we can therefore use greater EU support than ever before in the next cycle. In particular, more than HUF 5000 billion is available to support green energy, to create a circular economy, the ecological agricultural transition and climate and environmental goals. So I stress: it doesn't matter how much money we spend and how we spend it. With such a resource, very useful improvements can also be made, but it can also cause huge damage and destruction, and it is vital that this resource does not serve to enrich some people or groups at the expense of the country's development. At least 30% of the EU budget and at least 37% of the recovery fund should be allocated to climate protection. The Hungarian plans published do not reveal whether these objectives are met. I note that the minimum expectations, given the accelerating climate change, can be exceeded. For example, Finland, which set to achieve climate neutrality by 2035, uses half of the recovery fund for climate targets. In the field of energy management, there are positive elements of both the recovery and resilience plan and the green infrastructure and climate management operational programme, but the devil lies in the details, which the government has hidden quite well. We agree that there is a need for network development to help integrate the climate-dependent renewable energy system. Smart measurement and dynamic pricing would greatly help to adapt consumption to renewable production. We also welcome the development of district heating systems and energy storage. Increased energy efficiency, although it is a target, we do not see exactly how the energy efficiency obligation system would help this. We're waiting for the details. In any case, it can be assured that there is also a need for direct state support for the energy renovation of buildings, which is a debt to the government. In ten years, they have not been able to produce any meaningful results in this area. At least HUF 300 billion per year should be spent on building renovation, heating system modernisation and domestic renewable energy sources. The LMP would help these objectives through a simple one-stop shop with a programme that will also help those in need. We would grant grants combined with preferential loans and the loan could be repaid from the price of saved energy. The building-energetic deep renovation programme is a multi-use measure, as it helps to reduce critical air pollution in many places, reduce energy poverty and create tens of thousands of jobs in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, in addition to climate protection. The plans for the development of renewable energy sources refer only to solar cells and heat pumps. We miss it, it still doesn't make sense why wind energy is left out of this system, because it's one of the cheapest and cleanest production methods. The investment support for residential solar panels is forward-looking, but we do not understand why the programme is limited to the settlements of the South Great Plain, South Transdanubia, North Great Plain and North Hungary below 5,000 people. It is mentioned in the plans, but we suspect that most of the money is intended for green-field solar power plants. We are definitely not in favour of this. I now give the floor to my fellow Member to proceed.
u2021-03-22-238	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, but if you'll allow me, I'll give the floor to the leader of the group. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Sorry!]] Since I have the privilege of leading this debate. The lead speech of the LMP Group will be continued by Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-239	Mr President, the LMP fraction helps where it can, which is why my fellow Member thought he would help me with the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, This is an extremely important debate. In very short, I would only respond to three points of keynote speech by the government and the pro-government factions. Here we are expected to have a professional and policy debate, and we are very happy to do so, and we are prepared to do so, and we can count on it. It's very good that they're conscious. In the beginning, we can hold a debate on this because we initiated it, and the opposition representatives supported it in order to talk about the use of thousands of billions of forints in the Hungarian Parliament at all, because the government forgot to do so elegantly. So you would have made plans on behalf of the country without bringing this question to Parliament. Furthermore, my second point is that it is very difficult to have a policy and professional debate with a large part of your speeches being used to slander the opposition or previous governments. It is also very difficult to argue, to have a forward-looking debate, even if no responsibility can be read out of your voice about what has been done or what has not been done since 2010. So you guys have been talking exactly like you've been on the government for about a year, not almost 11 years. Well, it is very important, then, that we really do make the assessment of the situation that my fellow Member has been talking about, under what circumstances we are thinking about using this extremely large amount of EU development resources. First of all, we need to find out, and a lot of people have said this to me in today's debate, that the government has been unable to ensure that EU development resources are properly used in Hungary. Corruption has already been mentioned by my fellow Members, it has practically become a hotbed of corruption, they have built their own moonyards, and in no way have they been able to prepare Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy for the 21st century. The challenges of the century. Following completely outdated neoliberal economic policy, this was the result, the terrible tragedy that we can see, which is basically reflected in the exodus of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians. We have come to the point that today, unfortunately, one in six Hungarian children from motherland are born abroad which we believe is a tragedy for the nation, and you think it is perfectly fine because the common European labour market is only working. On this basis, I suggest that you do not call yourselves national. Likewise, my fellow Members have already mentioned this, and they have been able to achieve nothing in catching up disadvantaged regions. So we continue to have four regions among the 20 poorest regions of the Union, and in particular, we are talking about very large numbers now, very large statistical units, if we look at the fact that there are complete crisis regions in Hungary, which you have completely renounced. Typically, we can say that with the small settlements in peripheral, poor, remote areas, you are not really doing anything. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] It further aggravates... I will address this, honourable Member, in more detail and explain what I say here as a statement, this is how I do it. [[17.20]] We can further conclude that there are serious system problems, many of which you inherited in 2010, but you did not know what to do with much of them, and you can see that they now, in this crisis, are practically a collapse in important, essential sectors. There will be no time for me to discuss how shamefully inadequate your so-called crisis management has now been, and many things have been said by my fellow Members. There is a short time for such a keynote speaker's speech, so I will be able to mention only a few policy areas. Then let's start with the situation in the countryside, the situation in the small settlements. After eight or nine years of government, you have even started to talk about the program of such a modern villages, the Hungarian villages. What have you been doing for nearly a decade? At the same time, we can conclude that despite the fact that they started talking about a programme with nearly a decade's delay, which, by the way, has the correct objectives, they did not put sufficient resources behind it. So we can say that with the declared goals behind the Hungarian villages programme, we agree, and I think everyone agrees with them, but you are a decade late, and you still do not put the right resources there. This is why access to the most important public services in small towns has deteriorated tremendously in recent years. The basic infrastructure, which is essential for rural areas and small settlements, has been destroyed to an astonishing extent. I have often quoted the number that there are 17,000 kilometres of lower roads in Hungary today in the wrong and the wrong category, and unfortunately this number is growing every year. So not only would you be working late, but your problems are being deepened. In fact, they have done nothing to provide better public transport, and what they are doing here during the crisis in terms of restrictions on municipalities is the biggest problem for the smallest municipalities. The Secretary of State also spoke about the importance of public transport to the government. Well, where's the reform of public transport? This has been acknowledged by your policy makers in the previous term that you have on your table the basic professional concepts that would allow us to develop a much better Community transport system, even with the current fundraising. You simply failed to do so, you were incompetent to create it. Basically, we have been calling for a very, very long time, and now I do not know in what parliamentary term we are dealing with the need for a single, integrated Community transport system, a tariff community, coordination of the various transport sectors, the establishment of a national, rhythmic and integrated agenda, and, basically, the role of ordering should be given to municipalities. This could have been done ten years ago, and thus, with the same amount of resources, there would be much better quality Community transport, which would have supported rural development. And just one more addition: your national bus production has been announced several times in the form of a campaign, nothing has come of it. One of the eloquent examples of this was the fact that a Chinese bus assembly, manufacturing plant, was granted an absolutely amazing state aid, while to date there is no substantial national bus production. I will now refer to another very, very important crisis area because it has also done so, Mr Secretary of State, on the issue of water, and it is justified to talk about this today, on World Water Day. The water utility sector, we can say, is in fact on the brink of collapse due to your faulty policy, and it was also about a decade before Prime Minister Viktor Orbán acknowledged the problem for the first time last summer, and he acknowledged for the first time that the lack of resources here is a thousand billion in the medium term, i.e. in a 15-year perspective. So now, due to the failure of the government, the inadequacy of the government and the repeated failures of the government, we are concerned that the most important public service, the provision of drinking water to all Hungarians, and, in parallel, the protection of water bases are practically on the brink of collapse. In order to take action on this issue, such numbers are fluctuating: between HUF 1500 and HUF 3000 billion would be needed, I repeat, in order to ensure the most important public service, drinking water supply. We can say that the inadequacy of the government and the failure of the government, and the many damage caused by the very amazing historical corruption alone, have already caused enormous damage, and here fundamental changes are needed; it is clear that we will all put this very much further in the coming period. This is a zeroth step in the change of government, but in addition to that, we need to put down deep technical guarantees [[The president's ringing the bell to indicate the end of the time.]] which will allow us to make real use of the available EU development resources in the interests of the nation. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue is Congressman Bence Tordai, notary of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Let us try to pretend for a short time that we can take this debate seriously, all the more so, because the weight of this subject, the matter, is very much justified, because we are talking about spending nearly HUF 6,000 billion here over the next five years, which the Union provides to us in order to improve restoration and resilience. But unfortunately, you have not been able to grow up to this task, you have not been able to give respect to this matter, you have not been able to give respect to the Hungarian people, and you simply ignore your opinion, you do not give a chance to express your views on this plan. We can't even express our opinion because we can't get to know this plan itself. The only thing that was made public last December was a 13-page summary. So once again: 13 pages about how to spend 6,000 billion forints, 3000-4000 million forints a day. This is frivolous in itself, but let us see what has been produced since then in the great rush: you have formulated nine sub-programmes, and we call them components. Since then, a summary of four of these nine components has been added, but they are still only summary materials. I'll tell you when the final summary of the fourth of the nine components was added to the government website: 2021. CHAPTER III On the 22nd of the month, 15 hours 48 minutes at 40 seconds, so about two hours ago. It's quite serious, isn't it, that we can't prepare ourselves to get to know the material in detail, because you don't publish it, you don't publish it, you don't have anything to put on the table. By the way, what they published, if someone in my college class had given it to a test, I would have thrown it back, so classification is not worthy of the professional standard, the language standard that you have managed to produce. I don't know which assistant intern produced this, but if no one of the 200 secretary of state and the like had the strength to look at at at least 13 pages, and in substance, professionally, don't give, God, along with a lector, it really is a disgrace to their government. So from now on, unfortunately, this debate cannot be taken seriously, nor can it be taken seriously, because you should have the final version to the Union by 30 April. Obviously, they will give it up, of course, I have no doubt about it, they will give it up, it will be like it is now: it will be completely out of quality, and it will not in any way incorporate the comments, suggestions, criticisms that professional organisations, civil society organisations, representatives of the relevant social groups, representatives of opposition parties and, for example, municipalities, as the Union has required that local governments be consulted on this plan. You may have sent this material to some of the pro-government mayors, in case you write something on it, oh, you didn't write, well, then you don't have to take this into account, but the opinion of the largest Hungarian municipal associations, the large majority of county-righted cities, Budapest capital, has not been asked in this regard. This has not been requested, so from now on, what you are doing here is completely unthinkable, and it is quite obvious that you are not fulfilling the conditions that the Union has laid down procedurally. In substance, the Union defines the six pillars to be spent on in this fund. Well, let's see how these six pillars have been transformed into nine components themselves, and in these components what they promise, what they plan and what they have done in the last 11 years, because obviously we can see this as credible or serious at any level depending on whether there is performance or what their political stance has shown in relation to these matters. Component A: demography and public education. Well, in the Union, it's called education, but let it be. They define it as a demographical goal, and I now quote literally from the presentation of the RRF, which I downloaded from the government's website: "Our goal is to increase childbearing and domestic population. The population increase! [[17 .30]] I'm telling you what we've achieved in the last 11 years. The decline in population is increasing rapidly, so they were not even able to halt the acceleration of the decline in population. You know what I mean? You don't understand! I see that you don't understand, but I don't expect you to, because you obviously didn't meet with this, and all you're going to do is give up the propaganda you've learned here in Parliament. So the first thing we need to do is stop the decline in population, the rapid decline, then slow down, reverse this process, and the increase in population thus looks at it and reading demographers over the next hundred years is not a realistic goal. So that's how seriously thought-out this plan is. It is also written here that our goal is for young generations XXI. Ensure quality education on a national basis, which meets the requirements of the 20th century. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What's wrong with that?]] It's okay. I'm saying the goals are good, but let's compare them to what we've achieved so far. You're XXI. Instead of teaching in the 19th century, the 19th century was much more attractive than the 19th century. 100th-century prussian, frontal, perfectly outdated forms of education. CHAPTER XXI The institutions that are trying to achieve this outside the framework of the basic curriculum are not in a position to thank and even pursue thanks for centuries of education. He says he's on a national basis. We know what the code word for this is, this is history forgery in most cases, and the introduction into official material of extremist authors and figures who would not be read by a man of good taste. Quality education. Well, let's look at quality education. Quality education for who? For the privileged few, as they have created an educational caste system in the last 11 years, where they support segregation practices to overfinance church schools compared to state schools. They are trying to train a new generation of their own taste, which may not be so critical of their authoritarian aspirations. The fact is that if you look at the numbers, the performance of our education system is constantly deteriorating, and Hungary is the place where the biggest difference is between the types of school and the performance and added value of each school. So basically, what determines the child's fate is what school, what settlement he can start his studies at. Quality education and, in particular, the generally available version of these have had nothing to do with you in the last 11 years. Then let's take this promise seriously. Next is component B, the renewal of universities. Now we see here that they want to spend a thousand billion forints on universities. We can also see... [[Nacsa Lawrence: 1500!]] Component A, Renewal of universities. Now we see here that they want to spend a thousand billion forints on universities. We can also see... (Lőrinc Nacsa: 1500!) 1500? Especially good. We also see that these universities have already been singled out, put into the hands of Fidesz Boards. By the way, this distribution plan states that neither Corvinus University nor ELTE would receive a penny of this thousand billion-dollar grant. What we see is that they have a great idea of how Fidesz Curatoriums can once again only transfer hundreds of billions of EU public money into their hands, but this is part of the 21st century. It had nothing to do with the 100th century higher education, nor will it be. It is said in component C that catching up settlements and regions. The only thing about catching up is that Szabolcs now has less than half the average salary in Budapest. So much for catching up. During their 11-year governance, it was an amazing fragmentation in both regional and social terms, not only the difference between the upper classes and the upper layers, but also these differences are increasingly cemented, stuck to the floor and stuck to the ceiling, no social mobility, no talent can prevail, everyone will end up where their parents are. Their social development and economic and urban development policies have largely resulted in this. Of course, perhaps your programs will help you catch up after a magical blow, after 21, for some reason. Well, I've never been able to do that before. Let's see, water management. That's a good idea. Good idea. Protecting surface and underground water resources is great! Only then shouldn't have been a legislation that would allow water to be drained without punishment, which even János Áder sent back to mention one of the few courageous steps. The entire water management system and even the entire nature reserve system should have been better valued, but you didn't appreciate it at all, but you beat it up. So now a completely disemboweled, weakened, dismembered and dematerialized environmental protection system, including the protection of our waters, has remained behind their destruction. So, unfortunately, I can't take this water management component seriously either. The next item is sustainable green transport. In terms of sustainability, it would really be difficult to mention anything positive so far. It is the Government of Viktor Orbán that vetoes the international agreements that set themselves more ambitious climate targets and sees EU common development policies in this regard as a simple bazaar deal. It's very sad. Of course, now they've figured out that there's gonna be some kind of green bus program, and then some of their buddies are gonna be in some kind of electric bus industry, and if they can control hundreds and thousands of billions of them, they're gonna be back on the drop, of course, if you're still in a position to get these money out of there. Hopefully not. Component F is energy, as well as green conversion. The aim is to strengthen Hungary's energy independence. It is hard to imagine that they are constantly playing to serve the Russians in their entire geopolitical and energy policy programme. So, again, the last 11 years have not been about this, nor has it been about this when we saw that they have completely disabled wind energy production, and that they have also held back the support of solar energy until we have managed to organise the Fidesz-close industry that is relocating to these state aids and opportunities. They refer to the fulfilment of the climate protection objectives undertaken by Hungary. Here Hungary had a climate protection law, which I accidentally put in place, but then it was transformed so that its birth father didn't recognize it. The ambitious climate targets have also been pulled out of this, and on the basis of Paks II, a completely flawed and environmentally unsustainable project, however dangerous and expensive, they have tried to back up these very dewy targets with action plans. So if you keep going like this, it's not gonna be much of a thing either. But let us look at the most important measure in this regard, the action plan that was promised already in 2010, namely that with the financing of a green bank, they will support residential energy efficiency renovations worth hundreds of billions of HUF a year, creating green-collar jobs. I've been looking for evidence of this, because everyone agrees that this is the most important, most effective tool we could do for climate protection and sustainability. I'll read it literally, this section is from the summary now. You write about this: "The introduction of an energy efficiency obligation system responds to the problem of unconventional energy efficiency residential buildings. Using it, a new energy saving of 1.29 Petajoule per year can be achieved between 2021 and 2030. The renovation of residential buildings in terms of energy efficiency, especially in the residential sector to be supported, without intervention for those living in energy poverty, cannot be forecasted as investments are expensive and are slow or non-refundable. Low levels of building capacity and energy awareness of residents can be difficult to implement. Are you going to do this or not? If so, how much money will they spend on it? What are the goals? What are the volumes? It's ridiculous, seriously, that you want to spend hundreds and thousands of billions of dollars or not spend on this, because I don't know if you want to spend it on it or not. Well, let's keep going. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You don't understand!]] Well, because it doesn't make sense. Maybe you should write down what you're thinking, and then I'd understand. It's a circular economy. It's another sector that's been completely grinded, centralized, optimized for theft, and, by the way, it's been destroyed, and now that they've been trying to put it in friendly hands, even though the system's jamming, they're pushing in hundreds of billions again. Digitization, isn't it, when vaccination management is on paper, and I don't want to go on with it. Health. It's the health care that they're probably spending a lot of money on right now, while currently spending 4.5 percent of GDP on it. The EU average would be 7 percent, i.e. a thousand billion forints a year, if I spent the EU average on it. So that's how serious your promises can be, your goals. [[17.40]] And from now on, it really will be just that we, responsible politicians, responsible opinion leaders, professional leaders, civil organization leaders, communicate directly with the Commission, as we do under the leadership of Gergely Christmas, the Association of Free Cities, and do so by a lot of organisations and private people. We hope that this will lead to results, but it is certain that a change of government will be much more useful in this matter in 2022. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent Member to make a statement may now speak. Mr János Bencsik applied for a speech. I give you the floor. [[János Bencsik enters the speaker's stand.]] Congressman, you're speaking here on the stand. There you go. You have the floor. I'll have the clock started now.
u2021-03-22-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The EU budget debate has now been under way for almost three hours, and we have heard strong victory reports from the ruling parties that Hungary is the leader in the use of EU funds; that we were the first to draw the most funds in the region. I don't doubt that it's true, my question would be more about where all this money is, because somewhere there's all this money. And if we look at the statistics on where Hungary stands in per capita GDP growth, we can see that we have the worst growth indicators in the whole region except Slovenia. [[Lárinc Nacsa to Bence of Turdai leaving the meeting: Bence...! The president will have his glass jogged.]] The worst, the least efficient we've ever used. In practice, that means either we spent it on pointless things or you just stole them. We spent it with the royal plural, of course, in terms of the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, So far, it was possible to steal without disturbing the majority because, after the austerity policy of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, people were glad to see the crumbs falling, that they were finally getting something. That was the secret to your success in a global economy. But now it's over, and now there's a life-and-death struggle for resources. And I don't know, you noticed, apparently you didn't, because if you look at the last year, just what kind of money was spent on during the coronal virus epidemic, you really get cold blood in your veins. I do not want to keep a long list from the Budapest-Belgrád railway to the MotoGP Hajdúnánási track, if you look only at sports subsidies, today's news, an economic portal calculated that, due to various extra budget transfers, HUF 288 billion was added to sports investments. I think I'm a sports-loving man, and I came to this parliamentary meeting on a bike, but that's an exaggeration, isn't it? On the brink of an economic crisis, on the brink of a pandemic, is there no more important objective to which extra resources should be spent? The budget is gone, public debt is skyrocketing, while I feel that you have no sense of shame, no sense of danger, and that is a problem. It's not because of us, it's not because of the opposition representatives, because it's caused an uproar in your backland, in your main base, in those right-wing voters who know and acknowledge that you're stealing, they also know that you've betrayed civil Hungary, but so far they've been able to govern it, and you'd rather govern it than any other format. And the illusion of the governor's ability is what is now falling apart in front of our eyes in this epidemic, in this current situation. Health care is burying us in front of our eyes, literally, and unfortunately not only metaphorically, literally, tens of thousands of people, and in the meantime, you are shoveling out hundreds of billions of numbers of EU money on the back door without paying attention to appearances, not even pulling the curtain away, so that at least it doesn't happen in front of us. How much longer do you think you can do this? How long does the Hungarian people's tolerance for peace last? When will you come to the point where you will say that you will not be forgiven? 'Cause I sense in my own environment, right-wing, confessionally conservative people, that this boiling point has arrived. Ladies and gentlemen, 10,000 billion forints! This amount will have to be decided on in the next EU cycle. It's unfathomable money. We're at the door of the fourth industrial revolution. What's there to spend this money on? For a digital transition, investing in a knowledge-based economy, investing in human resources and, above all, eco-politics, so that my generation can retire on a viable planet and in a viable Carpathian Basin. And you have to decide whether you will choose this path, or you will stay on the current path, which can be summarised as offering the cheap, vulnerable Hungarian workforce on a silver platter to international multinationals and their otherwise incompetent oligarchs, who do not know performance. That's what they have to decide. Once again, not because of us, not because of the opposition representatives, but because of their own voters. Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of last year, we founded a new movement called Civic Reply, because our creed is that we value human talent and diligence more than anything else. Only performance is accepted as the sole standard of individual advance. It is unacceptable for us to idealise corruption, the kind of myth that you have built around the national capital class, which is actually all about going forward without performance, which, believe me, is the most serious brake and barrier in this country. The Civic Reply expects the government, not much, one thing to support real-performance marketable companies and businesses. We do not have any other expectations regarding the use of EU funds. We want to build a country where it is worth undertaking, where we can thrive, where human knowledge and diligence can finally be used, not only abroad, but here at home. We ask for the support of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2021-03-22-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, With great respect, I welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who indicated that he wanted to live in the house rules 36. The right to speak as provided for in paragraph 11 of Section 1. I give the floor to Mr President for a 15-minute time frame. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-245	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As stated by the representatives who initiated the political debate, Hungary will have more resources than ever before in the 2021-2027 budget cycle, with a significant share in the recovery of the damage caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, in order to recover from the economic crisis, the use of which will have to be submitted in Brussels by early April 2021. Therefore, I think it is justified that you put the question on the agenda of the Parliament, because it does not matter what and how Hungary uses such a large amount. I believe that the State Audit Office, as a supervisory body of Parliament, can also contribute to the best possible use of these EU funds by sharing the relevant experience of its activities in order to spread the audit, analysis and integrity-based organisational culture that has been carried out in recent years. In my speech, I would like to focus on two issues. First, I will demonstrate the importance of integrity thinking in the use of EU funds, and then I will highlight the impact that EU funds can have on future budgetary processes. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Combating corruption is of strategic importance to all nations, including Hungary, and its effectiveness can not only influence the assessment of the country, but also the development of the various economic processes and national economy. One of the pillars of a well-managed state is to ensure transparency and accountability of the state's operation, to create a clean public life, which requires public bodies to promote the public good. In order to succeed in combating corruption and to create an integrity-based administrative culture, an exemplary national cooperation was established in Hungary in 2011 on the basis of the initiative of the State Audit Office of Hungary. On 18 November 2011, the statement on coordinated, effective state action against corruption was signed by the Minister of Administration and Justice, the President of the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor General and myself. [[17.50]] In 2012 the National Court Office joined the team, in 14 the Ministry of the Interior, in 16 the Public Procurement Authority and the Hungarian National Bank, and in 2020 the Hungarian Competition Authority. In a decade since the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding, targeted and effective steps have been taken in Hungary to prevent and combat corruption. It is an outstanding achievement that the concept of integrity has now been incorporated into the functioning of public institutions and has become an integral part of it. The integrity management and control systems that contribute to preventing corruption situations have been established in Hungary. The effectiveness of cooperation against corruption at national level is ensured by the achievement of a number of objectives. I would like to quote a number of examples: bringing the national anti-corruption programme to life, establishing a medium-term national anti-corruption strategy, integrity-based civil servants and judicial ethics codes, not least the laws establishing integrity controls, as well as the training of the leaders of public service professionals and state-owned companies. As a result, it was also the starting point for 2008 when the Parliament commissioned the State Audit Office to pay particular attention to action against corruption. Based on this, the SAO launched its integrity project in 2009, which now includes a number of initiatives. The Court of Auditors' integrity project has, inter alia, carried out and published annually since 2011, an assessment and assessment of the integrity of public sector institutions in assessing the corruption threat and the build-up of controls to address corruption risks. In 2015 the National Assembly recognised the activities of the SAO in order to spread the integrity-based organisational culture. In April 2020, more than 4002 public-funded public wealth management organisations joined the ninth questionnaire research, which was completed in April 2020. This shows that Hungarian public sector organisations are committed to the organisational application of preventive anti-corruption instruments. Based on the results of the survey, the Court concluded that integrity controls to protect against corruption have been further improved in the Hungarian public sector. The survey also pointed out that the Covid-19 pandemic provides a special topicality for integrity-based operations; the additional tasks affecting the public sector now make it even more important to protect against corruption threats. According to the UN resolution, international research and the Court of Auditors' assessment, the state of emergency poses a risk of high corruption and non-compliance throughout the world, and therefore the establishment and enforcement of anti-corruption systems in public sector organisations is of greater importance. The most spectacular result of the systemic action against corruption is the outstanding whitening of the Hungarian economy in recent years, which is marked by the continuous decline in the VAT levied and the VAT actually received in the budget. Hungary has become the leader in the fight against VAT fraud, the efficiency of the Hungarian state's VAT collection is at the level of the Western European countries, and it has even become better than the German, Austrian, Belgian or British value by 2020. Dynamic whitening represents hundreds of billions of dollars in revenue for the budget, while increasing transparency, creating fair market conditions for economic operators, significantly reducing the possibility of corruption and strengthening fair taxation and strengthening the fair competitive environment. Dear House, Turning to the second area, the resources received from the EU's next generation recovery fund will have an impact not only on economic growth but also on the liquidity situation of the central budget. The analyses of the State Audit Office, which we have collected for the ladies and gentlemen of the House for today's debate, however, have shown that in recent years the ex post clearance of EU grants with the European Commission has been a significant financing challenge and additional task for the central budget. On the one hand, because, in order to achieve the improvements supported by the European Union more rapidly, it is appropriate to advance EU funding, which is budget expenditure, thus also affecting the statistical data of the government sector. On the other hand, because there is a period of more than one year between the advance, actual use and accounting of development expenditure, during which the advance amount increased and increased the financing exposure of the Hungarian State. The difference in time between the advance payment and the actual reimbursement of Union aid for development projects is due to a combination of the characteristics of the tendering system, the government objectives for speeding up developments, the time needed for accounting with the European Commission and the complexity of the funded EU projects. As a result of this factor, the timely receipt of revenue related to EU grants becomes uncertain. As a result of volatility and temporal variability, the central budget faces a significant risk to the cash flow balance. This risk can in principle be influenced by the government on the expenditure side by regulating the level of advance payments. However, this would lead to a slowing down of developments, so it has been more appropriate to take on the risk, i.e. to take on the major cash flow gap and to take care of its financing. Another aspect is that the advance is paid inside or outside the government sector. As long as the money remains within the government sector, it does not affect the government sector's lack of cash flow, as the item that represents expenditure for the central budget and increases the cash flow deficit appears in another sub-scheme of the government sector, such as the municipal sub-scheme or other government sector players, as revenue, i.e. the item that reduces the cash flow deficit. If the advance on EU support is granted outside the government sector by the central budget, the cash flow deficit in the government sector will increase. In this case, the other economic operator shall be obliged by contract to use the advance in a regular manner and to settle it within the time limit. This will help the central budget to recover the advance paid as soon as possible after having been cleared with the European Commission. I just want to point out that this was a particular problem before 2010 because, after all, the European Commission had to let go of spending and employment conditions and growth conditions, because after the 2008 crisis, these external actors would not otherwise have been able to use and meet them. It's a lot better than that right now. In particular, the government can reduce the risk of financing by setting reserves, redeploying appropriations during the year and issuing new early debt. The EU can improve budgetary risks in the next period, between 21-27 by making its advance practice more flexible. It is planned that the EU will introduce more flexible and clearer, shorter and less bureaucratic rules to facilitate access to funds. On the other hand, the so-called rule of law mechanism has been adopted, which may be an additional factor of uncertainty in the planning of the budget and perhaps in its implementation. At the same time, a number of other factors played a role in the development of the cash flow deficit. The impact of these factors was assessed in detail in each year by the SAO's analyses related to the closing accounting law. [[18.00]] Based on the budgetary data of recent years, it was expected that the trend towards an increase in the cash flow deficit will be reversed as from 21 onwards, as the ex post reimbursement of expenditure related to EU grants is expected to generate revenue of a significant magnitude, with a gradual reduction in expenditure. This prognosis was carried out by the Covid-19 epidemic, which, although the public debt remained below the EU average and the deficit is in line with EU levels, has pushed both the government deficit and the government debt towards the heights of ten years ago in Hungary. EU funds increased by the EU's Next Generation recovery package of EUR 750 billion to recover from the Covid crisis will give Member States, including Hungary, the opportunity to recover as quickly as possible. This requires, however, in part, the use of the experience of the previous EU budget cycle and, in the last ten years, the continuation and further strengthening of progress in the fight against corruption and the creation of an integrity-based organisational culture. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone would like to ask for a two-minute speech. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr Zoltán Balczó from the Jobbik Group has applied. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In part, I regret the need to return to the political debate instead of the professional one, but István Hollik has made statements that I have to make. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) He dreads how he has repeatedly mentioned his cooperation with Ferenc Jakab Péter Gyurcsány, working with Jobbik and DK. But how did we get here? Jobbik was prepared for the 2022 election by becoming a candidate in a constituency and starting with an independent list. Why was that necessary? Because you changed the election law, instead of a two-rounder, you did a one-rounder. If there had been a one-way election in 98, then the MSZP-SZDSZ coalition would have remained in power. Then, in de-cember, they changed the electoral law and said it would take 71 candidates to start a party list. Don't let me tell you that this meant that if there was a candidate in a constituency, it would force Jobbik on this common list. A congressman has the opportunity to either participate in this list or not be a representative. But the Jobbik, as a party, must be here because of your coercion. They do not expect you to launch Jobbik as opposition candidate in 106 places, as opposed to the five other opposition candidates. Obviously, that's absurd. That's why you came up with this election, this opportunity. And, of course, to cooperate, you can say that you've come together because you're hungry for power. But how is it that the voters behind it have accepted this cooperation, which is why the opposition list, like the Fidesz-KDNP, keeps you there? They don't want power, they see that your system needs to be replaced. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-22-248	Good afternoon. Have a good day. The two-minute lap continues. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-249	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to point out to Congressman Balczó that we would like to hear your words of conscience here, for which you have joined forces with Ferenc Gyurcsány. Maybe this isn't the forum where you should reassure your conscience. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Give me respect, my son.]] Don't blame us for the fact that after Gábor Vona took his soul, James Peter sold his soul to Jobbik. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Worry for yourselves, not for us.]] Don't blame us for this, honourable Member. I understand that this is a painful thing for you personally, but don't blame us for trying to help Ferenc Gyurcsány to power with all your breath, with all your speeches in Parliament, with all your political actions, while earlier it was a one-way election in 2018, honourable Member Jobbik's election, but you decided that you didn't want to cooperate with Ferenc Gyurcsány either then or in the future. You were one of the biggest critics of Ferenc Gyurcsány's activities. Let Ferenc Gyurcsány be a prisoner! That was your sentence, and now you're trying to help him back into power, let's be clear here, honourable Member. We'd love to hear your complaints about your remorse again, but let's just say that you chose the Gyurcsány road, not us. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Balczó: You put me on the list! Zoltán Balczó applauds.]]
u2021-03-22-250	Congressman László László Keresztes, LMP!
u2021-03-22-251	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I believe that it was justified and justified by Mr Zoltán Balczó's speech, but it is pitiful and shameful in itself that the opposition, the LMP faction and the other opposition parties had to initiate a debate so that we could debate on this extremely important issue determining the future of the Hungarian nation before the Parliament on the use of thousands of billions of forints. You, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, honourable Member Nacsa, the lead speakers of Fidesz and KDNP have spent a considerable part of their speaking time slurping the opposition, dealing with the governments before 2010, and not a single minute expressing some self-critical idea of why virtually all their plans, with which you have been given an election at the time, have been so shamefully affected by your policy that hundreds of thousands of people have left this country. Now this is a very important debate, but we should talk about the future. The country is in a very difficult situation, but we need to talk about the future, because it seems that there are many systems problems, untreated problems, and that this country and the whole nation are in such a tragic situation now that the correct use of these resources can ensure that a long-term and real process of development can finally be launched. Therefore, I ask everyone for a little restraint, and for us to end the current party politics now, to end the election campaign, and to conduct a policy debate on these issues as far as possible. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-252	Thank you very much. We were going to return to the speeches of the Members who spoke, but then we will not, because on behalf of the Government, State Secretary Szabolcs Imre Ágostházy applied for a speech. I ask for patience and understanding from Congresswoman Enikő Győri. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to reflect on the debate so far so that we do not lose too many valuable opportunities. Following Mr Zoltán Balczó, the square also opened for discussion of the professional elements, but I had the feeling that I had to listen to depressive folk tales, and that we were tired of talking completely out of reality. Thank you for the contributions of opposition representatives whose speeches contained at least part of the subject matter or sought to gather information, even if they were intended to make a substantial part of a partial reinterpretation of the facts. It is a common observation that I cannot bear not to reflect on why we have not initiated a political debate before. I report, too, in the press, Minister Gulyás on government information, I myself, through letters sent to more than 500 organisations and representatives of interest, press conferences, online and personal conferences, have continuously induced the process of collecting as many opinions as possible. When we share what documents, if you'll allow me, I'll come back, because it has a logical order. I also report to the Members of Parliament that we are good at EU comparisons, even with regard to social consultation. So, if we do not look at what your expectations would be, the Canaan is, as a matter of fact, the ultimate target in this regard, but if we look at realistic options, and just how the EU decision-making mechanisms, the planning documents they publish, can be answered by the Member States, then it is clear that the Hungarian government is planning quickly and effectively and we are sharing much more information than the EU co-Member States. And political debate, I think, is it natural for opposition parties to take the initiative in Parliament. I myself have responded to several MEPs and domestic politicians. If anyone comes to us at any time, we are open to an objective debate, to discussing proposals. It is a special pleasure to negotiate with opposition leaders, even city leaders with county rights, especially if they are interested in real government intentions and can be discussed in a meaningful professional way. I regret that many elements in this parliamentary debate do not point in this direction. Where's the money? a consistent question for several factions. I would like to share with you that the money is there if we can say that it is not our own party's data, because there is a good chance that they would not believe it, but based on Eurostat databases. In 2010, when Fidesz-KDNP took over government, the proportion of people exposed to severe material deprivation was more than five percent of the population, 21,6 percent. This is at the end of 2019 because fresher data is now only 8.7 percent available. [[18.10]] I report, here is the money the Hungarian government uses from its own budget and from spending EU development resources. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Z. Kárpát Dániel: Mandatory member!]] I mean, where's the money? I report that there is also money that the unemployment rate in the year preceding the change of government, i.e. at the end of 2009, was 11,3% at the end of 2020, i.e. 4.3 at the end of the first year of the Covid crisis. Where would we be now if the Covid crisis had hit Hungary in the unemployment caused by economic policy practiced by socialist governance, what social disaster would it have led to? ! The consistent economic policy of the last ten years has brought to my mind the... apologies, surreal English terms, we argue several times in English, indicating that the Commission is more open to our positions than the Hungarian political parties, so our unemployment rate is 4.3 percent. Here's the money. Or where else is the money? The 13th month pension. One of the congressmen objected to the amount of money in the pockets of pensioners. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai government has taken away the 13th month pension, and the Orbán government is gradually returning it. Here's the money. With regard to public debt, when we took over government in 2010, the level of government debt was 83.8 percent. As a result of a consistent economic policy in recent years, it has decreased to 65.5 percent by the end of 19 years. This is also the result of an outstanding European comparison. Despite this, even with economic rescue packages, the European Union institutional system... I do not want to question their intentions, but the mass inability of Brussels bureaucracy alone is causing even economic rescue packages to arrive slowly in the Member States, so the Hungarian government has taken economic protection measures, or what it wants to finance, it has done, and the EU is also pre-financing most of the investment. As a result, public debt is still lower after an intensive crisis management year than we have taken over from socialist governments. And one more talkative piece of information about how people live, how we would've wiped out the most needy. We see that net real wages stagnated in 2005-2010, which increased by 58.5 percent between 2010-19. And to prevent criticisms that I've almost heard with my ears, yes, but I'm sure the higher-income people have benefited from the Hungarian economic policy, I say no. Since 2010, the minimum wage has increased by 120 percent and the minimum wage for skilled workers by 135, i.e. the lower-income social classes have benefited more from the development rates of the country as a whole. Here's the money, honourable Members and women. The Hungarian Government and our EU institutional system are accused of stealing EU development resources, although we spend a lot of money on them, but surely you want us to steal them. This won't hold up. In view of OLAF investigations, Hungary is also performing well in the anti-fraud measures coordinated with the EU. How can we be accused of being on the side of fraud in any respect when we see OLAF, as the EU Anti-Fraud Office or agency, reporting fraud to the Member States, as an average of the Union, suggesting that OLAF's announcements lead to 39 percent of indictments at EU average level. To a significant extent in Hungary, the Hungarian prosecutor's office, which, unlike many other Member States, is independent of the government in Hungary, launches these procedures at 47 percent. In the vast majority of cases, the explanation of why this ratio is so much is that, by the time OLAF reveals individual cases, they are working so slowly that we are long over the limitation period and there is no place for prosecution. So here's how committed we are to the fight against fraud. They've been critical of our public procurement. If you look at it, the Single Market Scoreboard, which is a Commission document, is published annually with indicators from many public policy areas at EU level. The findings of this public procurement show that the Hungarian public procurement system is more efficient, more transparent than the rating of the efficiency of public procurement in Hungary among our neighbouring countries, including Austria, or between the southern states, Italy, Spain, Portugal and the southern states. Our public procurement legislation, supported by several audit findings, fully complies with EU standards. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, In the public procurement system, however, the government has made further progress and further efficiency gains, and at the beginning of February it adopted a government decision in the Hungarian Gazette, with ambitious goals, after which each EU Member State, if I may say so, can follow us. These will be implemented, and in the negotiations with the Commission on resources and development policy, this is a consistently recurring issue, and I am getting feedback that, yes, the public procurement system in Hungary is in good condition and welcomes all government commitments for the future. We have received proposals here during the debate. Among other things, it has been said that we should make it possible for municipalities to draw direct calls. If you are involved in such political debates, I propose that you face the fundamental EU rules on which this negotiation is based first. Hungarian municipalities cannot directly access these sources. Moreover, under EU rules, we could not even take territoriality into account in the sources of the recovery fund, but we are still trying to do so. It's a matter of national big investments. Why don't we give this money to the families, why don't we use it for infrastructure development? In fact, when it comes to family policy support, it is my every week experience that we need to use a translator key with EU bodies, whether it is a recovery fund or a seven-year budget. What is a family policy for the Hungarian government, family support, so that they can support us in this, so that we can use EU euros to do this, we need to recode all of our family policy measures, and when we develop nursery and kindergarten for families, we say that this is a labour market measure for mothers. It is very difficult to spend EU funds on demography and family matters, we do what we can, which does not come out because of these EU commitments, of course, the Hungarian government, as it has been before, will give everything to families. Several people referred to the sending of letters to Brussels, indicating their dissatisfaction with the domestic consultation. A recent experience with high-ranking Commission officials, after I personally sent them quite a lot of information about whom, how, how intensity we consult our mailbook, I did not send them because in Brussels, thank God, there is no such thing, so we only shared in Excel tables about whom, when, how many letters we sent, they asked me back what I would suggest, what answers to opposition letters that would go against my claims and claim the opposite. All I could tell them was that I see our opposition politicians living in a parallel reality, and instead of asking us for information or consulting us, they are running to Brussels immediately and asking them for information. I think that we do not need mediation bodies if we want to talk to each other in Hungary. With regard to social consultation, as I have already mentioned, we have called for more than 500 organisations. It was said in the debate that we left out the big cities, the county-righted cities, and we missed the capital. That doesn't correspond to reality. Last December, we addressed all 23 county-righted cities, with one exception, which, by the way, was not conscious, and after that I replaced them, we addressed all local government representatives, Hungarian chambers, bilateral chambers, NGOs and civil society organisations. I use these two organisations because in Hungarian political discourse, this means different concepts. We also sent our proposals to critical organisations with the same government. This was answered by his more demanding. Currently, roughly one fifth of the organisations addressed have already given us a detailed opinion. [[18.20]] We respond consistently to these, and with about two or three weeks delay, because our institutional system is basically focused on planning, but we try to answer everything. On 30 April, it was said that until then we will submit the document and how much consultation we will be conducting. We will submit the documents by 30 April, and the Commission has confirmed to me today that they also consider this target date to be realistic. By the way, we have a very good professional cooperation with them, and given that, although the transparency in Brussels is always set as an example to us, the Commission does not share information about the negotiations in the Member States with the other Member States, there is virtually a complete news blackout. Nevertheless, as we talk to our partners, whether with neighbouring states or on a V4 basis or faraway countries, we see that the Hungarian plan is about the same as the average pace, and that the acceptance of our plans is broadly consistent with the EU average. According to last week's information, we still have four Member States who have not submitted anything to the Commission, but we submitted our first draft last November. So I would not like to praise our own work, but the dedicated work of experienced experts who, like the previous term, are behind us, and I will continue to call you into partnership, although some of my colleagues may think that I am naive. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-254	Thank you very much. Ms Enikő Győri, Member of the European Parliament, representative of Fidesz-KDNP. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-22-255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to have the floor in today's debate as a Member of the European Parliament. The government has already outlined the numbers, the plans, we have also listened to the parties' first-round reactions. Let me talk about how this looks from Brussels. [[Continue in 185/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary I'd like to start with a look back on the dangers that we've had to overcome. Although in December 2020, an agreement was reached on the seven-year budget and the recovery fund, it should be known, and this was also said in the debate, that it would lead to joint debt, which has not been the case in the EU. The Hungarian government withdrew completely from it, but accepted it, as the first wave of the epidemic hit the southern countries in the first place, and they could not be helped otherwise. Hungary, therefore, was in solidarity with all other celebrities, even though we do not have good experience with debt services. The main direction of the battle was not this, but another subject, the famous conditioning. We are well aware that our political opponents have been working for years on how to teach people who have different ideas about the world and Europe, in some way, a lesson. The rule of law procedure has been invented: a regulation has been adopted on a majority basis, and by applying it, I am convinced that the Union could be beaten up. The rule of law is to be protected in Brussels by a rule contrary to the fundamental principles of the rule of law. There is no generally accepted definition of this concept, it is difficult to grasp precisely, to list its elements exhaustively. The preservation of the rule of law is also the responsibility of the national constitutional institutions under the Treaties and not of Brussels. It is very right that the government has challenged the law in the court in Luxembourg. Fortunately, at the level of Heads of State or Government, common sense prevails, they provide a framework for the interpretation of the regulation, they bring it into line with the founding treaties, and they prevent it from being used for political blackmail. It was a Hungarian and Polish victory because we persisted, but I am convinced that the supporters of the unity and legal functioning of the Union were triumphed, and those who were forced to wage war were left behind. With this agreement, we defended Hungary's sovereignty and the right to decide on any matter that falls within national competence. Ideological or political disagreements should not have budgetary consequences. The EU funds for Hungarians have therefore been protected. Let me stress that the political conditionality imposed by the majority of the European Parliament has nothing to do with the spending of responsible money. Hungary has always accepted that European taxpayers' money needs to be accounted for in euro cents, with zero tolerance to corruption. The audit has its institutions and mechanisms both in Brussels and at home, which is what the President of the State Audit Office was about, and also the State Secretary. Political conditioning would have had nothing to do with this, it would have been a political weapon against Member States that were not in line. What is sad is that the European Parliament continues to fight back today, does not want to accept the fact that there are other legitimate players on the European political front, who also want to exercise their rights. The EP takes the title of the one and only European Actor, which is in fact constantly calling into question the institutional structure of the Union. As early as December, it adopted a decision which had no legal binding force, but a political declaration, in which it opposed the decision of the European Council, stressing that the ET has no right to clarify the rule of law. In doing so, he denied the existence of the main political decision-making forum, went against the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions, upset the institutional balance, and therefore acted in a non-contractual manner. I would like to inform you that the EP has not stopped. This week's plenary session is preparing for a similar manoeuvre, rather than dealing with, let's say, the failed purchase of vaccine. The aim of the draft decision is now the European Commission, which calls on the EP to see why it does not go against the decision of the European Council and why it does not already apply the rule of law. He calls for a retroactive procedure, he would apply the rule of law instrument to pending cases, and he would like to see Hungary and Poland already on the penalty box in Hungarian. It even threatens the Commission with a motion of distrust why it does not adopt the principle of application of the Regulation as soon as possible and why they are not agreed with it. He stressed that the challenge to the European Court of Justice did not have suspensive effect, whereas the European Council stated that it could not be applied before the judgment of the Court of Justice. Parliament is therefore, in its usual way, beyond its jurisdiction, preparing for an institutional war, blackmailing and threatening. The text is even more serious than the de-cemberan, even placing pressure on the European Court of Justice. One of the co-authors of the draft is Katalin Cseh, MEP Momentum. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] However, the European Parliament would have plenty of real work to do along its own powers instead of making a political show. As regards EU funds, a so-called monitoring group has also been set up to assess the content of national recovery and resilience plans and to meet EU priorities. I am convinced that this is already the limit to what the treaties allow, but the Council has accepted this. The Fidesz delegation to the European Parliament will work with all its might to prevent the EP from slowing down processes with its own political considerations. I have no doubt that the European Balliberal side will be poking around, which could lead to a valuable waste of time in launching projects. But we've already made some progress. In the context of the European Semester, the Commission will not make country-specific recommendations to Member States this year on what to do and what not to do in terms of economic policy coordination, but will integrate it into the process of negotiating recovery and resilience plans. I was the main guy in charge of this dossier. It has been achieved that the rule of law conditioning has not been included in the text of the Decision and that it is the Commission's duty to engage with the Member States in a meaningful dialogue and to adapt the plans to their needs, and not to prepare for the expectations of Brussels. The decision also stated that national parliaments should play a meaningful role in the negotiation of recovery ideas in the Member States. I therefore urge you to engage in a debate, even more, even in committees, on government development ideas, to provide information from every corner of the country on how to make the best use of these resources of unprecedented size. It was a matter of magnitude. I don't want to repeat it. I would just like to say that the EUR 51.6 billion, HUF 18 000 billion, mentioned by the Secretary of State, is also an obligation to pay EUR 10 billion, our net balance is EUR 31 billion, which is more favourable than ever before. With the exception of Lithuania, only less developed Member States are ahead of our country in terms of net per capita position, and our per capita EU resource has also increased by €210 compared to the previous cycle. The task is to take advantage of this unique opportunity: from Zemplén to Baranya, from Hajdú-Bihar to Nógrád, there will be tangible developments in Hungary for all Hungarian citizens. Much has been said today about green and digital developments, infrastructure. Let me highlight the importance of social innovation and recommend social enterprises to the government. These companies are profit-oriented, trying to make a living from the market, which solve social problems affecting many people on a business basis. [[18.30]] So they are common businesses at the same time, but they benefit all of us, whether it is employment for people with disabilities or environmental projects. They implement the principle of work instead of aid in practice. We know little about them, there are few programs for them, even though the value-creating work of the Blue Bird Foundation in Szekszárd and Budapest or the Szimbiosis Foundation in Miskolc is worthy of our recognition. I'm asking the government to count on them when the program is finalized. Open a way for them to benefit from the sources. Remember, they solve public tasks, reduce the burden on the government. They want to work, not live on welfare. Finally, a few words in the remaining time about what I am experiencing from the Hungarian opposition representatives in Brussels. It is sad to say to you that the Hungarian Balliberal Site and Jobbik have been working on how to harm our country by mobilising all their energies during the budgetary negotiations. They were leaders of political conditionality to blackmail the country in any matter of value. Their aim was to take away, to reduce the subsidies granted to him, to gain political advantage from the crisis before the 2022 parliamentary elections, no matter at what cost. It is well known that it has been proposed that municipalities should have the right of agreement in the plan for the use of resources. The Secretary of State has also referred to this. Fortunately, there were no buyers in Brussels. The opposition also wants to torpedo the adoption of the Hungarian recovery plan, there was a debate in the European Parliament about this, where only lies were heard from the mouths of Hungarian opposition representatives. They claimed that there was no social dialogue, that I did not repeat what was just said, that I would only say one thing: why certain plans are only being put on the Internet now. There's a procedure. The first plan comes up, followed by consultation with Brussels, then the plans have to be revised, the social dialogue is under way, the proposals are being incorporated, new plans are being made, and they are constantly being put on the Internet. So who claims it's December, and then why yesterday and two days ago came up with a plan because it's a process. It would be nice to get to the point first before someone criticizes you. Finally, some facts and statistics on opposition outside activity. By examining their public actions and their amendments, we see that the Hungarian Balliberal forces in the EP are working with partners that are predominantly hostile to the Hungarian government, showing an anti-government attitude in an international comparison. They are particularly active in ideological debates and hardly show anything on policy issues. Apart from Croatia, of the 27 EU Member States, Hungary is the state where, on the basis of their activities in the European Parliament, the opposition forces mostly work against the government. For the Hungarian Balliberal and Jobbik MEPs, the only goal in which the government is marked is, instead of national advocacy in the term since 19th. After all this, it is clear that there is only one goal: to harm. After that, not only Hungary's reputation but also development resources would be deprived of the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and citizens most affected by the crisis: live in the capital city or in the countryside. I trust that the Commission will act with sufficient objectivity and will not stand up to the lies. I call on the honourable opposition representatives to switch in these difficult times. Change the voice they use in the European Parliament. Don't give our country any bad news. Start serving the interests of Hungarian citizens, helping to work, crisis management, vaccine acquisition, not hindering all of this. It is in the interests of all of us that development resources should arrive in the country as soon as possible and that their smart use should begin. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-256	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Parliament of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-257	Mr President, Dear House, When it comes to EU development resources, I am one of those who like to draw a longer-term balance. I do not think of these as some kind of aid or one-sided benefit, as Hungary paid a very high price in exchange for the resources coming here. Most of all, he opened up his market and did so by means of a negotiated association agreement that you negotiated in about half of it, and half of it was left-wing leadership at the time. We have to say that there are amazing, fatal mistakes in this arrangement. The current government of Hungary has contributed to human resources emigration from Hungary over the last decade by not launching any incentive programme to stay at home against forced emigration. You are also very, very much told by the fact that you should come home, young man! The organizer of the program later emigrated abroad. It's about like your accountability government commissioner: they had more accountability government commissioners than they were accounted for. So it's quite amazing how, with a political sorcerer's kitchen, they come up with sound, good - looking concepts and save the content. But let's go through it one step at a time. This government, in 2011, when I submitted a proposal for a rental plan and we submitted an increase in the family allowance, but this should be done on a family card, so basically on food and child raising, this government, in 2011, you called us Nazis here in Parliament for this child protection proposal. This year, when I made the same suggestion... I was still paying attention to putting the exact same thing on the table, you blundered my political community for the same reason. That tells us all about you and your pathetic political witches' kitchen. While trying to force national rhetoric on themselves, you can see that you are learning this genre, since around 2010 they communicated quite differently here in Parliament, but they do it so poorly that they can't even play national representation. There is no government in Central Europe that would have been so vulnerable to the multi-company network, which would have kneeled down so far before the banking system, and which would have given up so much the interests of its employees and employees. It doesn't exist! You are basically pursuing a neoliberal economic policy, pampering the multinationals and the banks concerned. My fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, it is indeed a prepared man, and it is a pleasure to listen to other pro-government leaders, stand up and tell me, I beg you, that the parties pay 50% of the resources to the foundation of the epidemiological defense. Okay, let's get to it. The municipalities are paying too much. But why aren't those damn commercial banks paying you? More precisely, I'm paid on paper, Mr. Secretary, but in four to five years, you can write that down from your taxes to be paid. Is this your world? This whole kneeling down in front of all the international networks, and all the fighting national rhetoric? Let's see what you're doing these days. The fact is that an EU legislation has been drawn up, and more precisely it is being prepared, where large multinational companies should publish, on a country-by-country basis, above a certain threshold, what profits have been made in which country, how much profits have been made and how much taxes will then be paid. This proposal is a damage to Hungary, and it is clear that you have not supported a similar multi-company money pump, with the pathetic argument that we should not negotiate it under accounting rules, but then in taxation, but you have done nothing in ten years to negotiate it in the area of taxation. I don't want to classify the activities of the Hungarian Secretary of State for Taxation here, because he's got enough problems with numbers lately, so let's just stick to the business. [[Noise.]] The fact is that in 2017... according to professional calculations, the amount that multi-company companies would have paid into the Hungarian budget would have put the Hungarian budget in a better position by HUF 200 billion. Fellow Members! It's the price of a full-state rental program, which you've also sabotaged in the last ten years. This shows their purely neoliberal economic policy. We accept the Minister's explanation for the construction of a minister and, of course, we accept the Minister's explanation, but for those who do not need a ten million-dollar discount for the construction of a minister, a Hungarian youth with typical living conditions, but with family desires and child-bearing goals is well-reciprocated if the intermediary bank believes so. So the duality between your rhetoric and your real action is quite amazing. And we also see that, in addition, a pact with the EBRD has been signed, it is on the government's side in English, where they have undertaken not to take any steps to help those with credit damage, which will cause banks up to a single forint of damage. Make no mistake. I'm not multi- and I'm not anti-bank, not by a long shot. A healthy national economy also needs well-functioning multi-enterprises and well-functioning, well-functioning, well-functioning banks to ensure maximum implementation of the principle of public burden-sharing and to stand for national representation. You couldn't even do this in the case of the transaction fee, where the commercial bank concerned sent the letter to the contractor to pay this difference back five months, because this was due to the imposition of the government's transaction fee. [[18.40]] Net violation of the law! We told you here in Parliament. What did the Government of Hungary do? Did you alert consumer protection, take action? No, I didn't. He snuck away quietly. After all, this government is no longer so combative when it comes to protecting Hungarian people. We also see that, if we look at the average Hungarian salary you deserve, we are halfway between Slovenia and Kosovo, and because of your conscious forint weakening, they are constantly losing the purchasing power of Hungarian payments. There is no doubt that wage developments in forints since 2010, about the same as in the countries of the region, compared with some countries, have been slightly less. But, if you look at the international purchasing power of our salaries, there has been a pathetic distance, let alone from the Austrian level, the European average, which includes the less performing regions. Mr. Secretary, tell me when we buy a phone like this. [[He's showing it to me.]] I don't have a company, I bought it from my own fee, so how much do you think weak forints cost on this phone compared to the 260 forints euro exchange rate they took over the DJ counter compared to what they have now? The exchange rate of the forint has deteriorated by more than a hundred forints. For such a smartphone, the difference is 30-40,000 forints, Mr. Secretary of State. This is the most brutal penalty tax that you are allowed to take out of the Hungarian people's wallet every year, of a thousand billion-dollar magnitude, because, unfortunately, from the date of clothing, almost all products bought from abroad have been purchased over most of the food. And if I go into the store and buy domestic products, say, food, then it's gonna be more expensive because the sprayer, the plant protection product, the machine used to work the device, everything has a foreign background. The fact is that with the weak forint, you will destroy the Hungarian people's wallet, and you will not take responsibility for this, because you say that we do not have an exchange rate goal. The central bank also says that there is no exchange rate target, even though you could write in the Central Bank Act that the protection of the everyday interests of Hungarian people should at least be a matter of principle or a priority. According to the calculations of a French economist, in 2015 only some HUF 560 billion is missing from the Hungarian budget because the relevant multi-networks have typically untaxed the majority of their profits from Hungary. This is the same as the turnover of Hungarian webshops in 2017, half of the annual EU support at that time, or the resources spent on defence in 2019 in another year. You won't say a word. What are you doing in the meantime? They support multi-companies with grant contracts and tenders which, where appropriate, carry out multiples of the value of the aid in a similar manner as dividends or know-how purchases and leases out of the country. There are car manufacturers that pumped HUF 1800 billion out of Hungary during your regency, yet you supported this company by HUF 36 billion. Somehow, we do not feel the great national heat that would otherwise be essential for good governance on similar issues. We also see that, through Tao programmes, there are HUF 605 billion less in the budget in the last decade than possible. As a sportsman, I have been a sportsman for decades on a daily basis, and I consider it extremely important to invest in sports intelligently, but this does not include village stadiums, nor do the ten-billion-dollar amounts spent on sports strategy, which are considered important to spend on this in the middle of the epidemiological period. We also see that in relation to the companies we talked about, you do not dare to make such a warlike voice as, say, towards the Hungarian opposition. However, there have been today some improvements made at a level that should at least be considered. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Secretary, okay? And I need you to respond to it, because it's worth it. If you have a national feeling, you'll be able to respond to that. The fact is that in recent months, multi-enterprises have been granted huge grants of a magnitude of ten billion. If they make sense, so if they really save jobs, then I'm not sorry. If we can say that it's going to be given to a company that doesn't actually make 10 times its share in dividends, then it makes sense to keep that job. But look at how much they've spent on these companies since the crisis caused by the corona virus. Take this number, add another amount of money, and give this to those of the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises who are in trouble! So it should not be that for multi-company companies ten billion non-refundables, and for Hungarians and small ones, if the bank, let's say, believes that everything can be okay, then it might be able to get something close to the total amount. So take the amount given to the multinationals and provide the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises concerned with at least one or two million forints of non-refundable aid, Mr. Secretary of State. Let's narrow it down, let's say, those small entrepreneurs who keep jobs, but at least a third of their income is out, and at least a third of their employees are not able to give jobs or meaningful jobs right now. I think that you will find companies that carry this national economy on their backs, thanks to whom we are here in Parliament or that the national economy is at all working. These companies provide two thirds of the jobs in Hungary. We can also say that half of this large amount of work is provided by people who do not even employ ten people. It's worth focusing on. A discount loan is a very good thing, I'm not your enemy, but you have to pay it back. If the company doesn't stay, there won't be anyone to pay it back, but if we help it now with non-refundable support and the company stays, we'll have a job, Mr. Secretary. I don't have time to talk about what demographic deep flight you've been assisting in over the years. It is amazing when people are talking about increasing population after fifteen years when I consider the Carpathian Basin to have a population in a broad sense reduced by one million, my fellow Members. A million people! This includes the dramatic, tragic rate of population loss here, the brutal population depletion of the severed parts and emigration, approximately one million people minus. After all, if any of you dare to stand in front of others with a demographic trend-turning onion fever dream, it doesn't come true. So it's quite amazing that if you guys have a little pause during the fall and fortunately a little bump, a temporary rise back, which I very much welcome, you'll start writing editorials about the turn of trends. While we see that the current birth rate assumes a 6.5 million in Hungary, and we, Jobbiks and opposition representatives are presenting the demographic proposals of your KDNP experts, and you are the ones who are not coming to the committee meeting to vote on this. My fellow Member Nacsa, you are now following me, and you will obviously receive your bonus for your reprehensible tyradas of the opposition, and you will be in good health. I respect all kinds of work, and it's a job. But there's a meeting of the Welfare Committee. You know, the one thing they didn't come to last time. Here's the baby shower program, they're gonna vote to extend the loan. One of my suggestions is that while it is said that there should be a demographic trend turnaround, 65,000 Hungarian women are discriminated against from the baby shower, those over 41 years of age. My suggestion is that a large number of these age groups, which are now leaving the age of having children, can have this opportunity if they have children's goals. This is not a political proposal, it is a proposal of national strategic importance. My fellow Member, no matter what you say after me, once again, I respect your thoughts, your world vision, but you must respond substantially to your support for extending your own proposal on the basis of the ideas of your own experts, because tomorrow is the hour of truth in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-22-258	Thank you very much. As Congressman Z. Kárpát has announced with sufficient information, it is now time for Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Secretary of State Ladies and Gentlemen! I have listened and tried to make a note not only of my fellow Member Z. Carpathian but also of all the left-wing Members before me. I think this is an important debate that we are taking part in here, and it has been going on for several hours, and there are still a few points ahead of us in this debate, but I must say that Mr Z. Karpat has not said a single sentence on the subject of this debate. EU money has not been mentioned, family subsidies, foreign exchange loans, mostly road constructions, everything, but unfortunately, this is not the subject of the current debate, which you have initiated. And if you have initiated it, otherwise I think it is a good initiative, it is worth talking about, then many who have initiated the debate will not bother to come here. Those who signed to have such a debate, who were petitioners in this bill, such as Ferenc Gyurcsány, who himself was a petitioner, obviously did not come, as there is butter behind his ears, if there is such a picture of the use of EU funds. [[18.50]] But they came to explain the certificate to former State Secretarys who were involved in the socialist system in the tragic, corrupt, bad and irresponsible use of EU funds. For example, István Ujhelyi, former State Secretary at the Ministry of Local Development, Ministry of Regional Development at a corrupt and bad, irresponsible time when European Union funds were being used very, very badly; for example, Lajos Korózs, State Secretary at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour; and here was László Varju, State Secretary of the Ministry of Development at the time when the use of Hungarian European Union resources was so tragically performed that we had to repay various punishments and were drivers in the European Union. They quickly explain the certificate, they came to defend themselves and the corrupt system they maintained together with Ferenc Gyurcsány. But perhaps the most interesting point of this debate so far was that when Peter James joined Brussels against Hungary, he said that Brussels was helping us during the coronal virus epidemic, of course the Hungarian government did nothing, he said. It wasn't always like that, was it, Zoltán Balczó a few years ago, or should we be free? He gave a speech at the assembly with a cry. [[Zoltán Balczó: Me?!! Never!]] At one of Jobbik's rally [[Zoltán Balczó: Never!]] A few years ago. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the right-wing Member speaking before me [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] He wrote a book entitled EU Tanázia, entitled EU Tanázia. So much for the enthusiasm of the right-wingers (Zoltán Balczó intervenes.) what is being said on the European Union issue and they are now winking at Brussels. I was also pleased to hear that Peter James announced that opposition parties had agreed that there would be no corruption if their government or they came to power and no corruption suspects would be launched. I am very, very pleased with this announcement, which means that Ferenc Gyurcsány will not be running in any way in the 2022 elections, and many socialist, DK and liberal politicians will then return his mandate. I'm happy for you. We listened to a lecture from the president of the MSZP on stealing, from the MSZP, which led the most corrupt government of all time under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai, at the time when the use of European Union funds was so tragic, when it was the largest corruption case ever in Hungary, the 4th metro, where the European Commission also said that HUF 160 billion was stolen from this money, HUF 160 billion, my fellow Members. This MSZ president gave us a lecture on theft. My fellow Members have seriously avoided the issue of PPP constructions, as thanks to your blessing activities, M5 and M6 motorways would have saved HUF 2853 billion in Hungary, HUF 2853 billion in this amount, if you had not allocated these PPP contracts to your fellow citizens, to their foreign capitalist friends. What could it have been spent on? How many important and good projects, the rise of Hungary and the good project for country building could have been carried out from HUF 2853 billion, which you left in the pocket of your principle friends! Mr Tordai said that he was also a fan of the debate, so that immediately after his speech he would run out, and then he would not take part in the debate, although he said that he should argue; Mr Tordai said that no programme could be found from the current recovery fund and from the next seven-year cycle, no description of this programme could be found anywhere, and then he talked for fourteen and a half minutes about components, sub-programmes, goals and various implementation plans. But there may be some confusion in the force and confusion in the system, because Mr Tordai agrees with all the European Union's objectives, agreed with modern education, agreed with the circular economy, agreed with sustainable development, agreed with a number of points, family support, demographic issues that we also consider important in the coming period. Today's news and this is very closely linked to today's debate, as it is about European Union funds that the police have restarted Welt 2000 Kft. You know, this is your clan's company. We know that Hungary had to repay HUF 18 billion, that the European Commission found serious irregularities in public procurement irregularities, that it found serious procurement irregularities in contracts concluded between 2003 and 2009 that it had to repay HUF 18 billion to Hungary. I would like to draw attention to two personal contexts: the Deputy Chairman of the Development Agency was Klára Dobrev at the time of the contract, and after 2010, Welt 2000 Kft. Where did your manager get a well-paying job? At Altus, at the house of Ferenc Gyurcsány. I must say, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that corruption and bad, inefficient spending on the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments has had such an impact that there has been a difficult way up from here after 2010 and especially after 2013. Because it is very easy to compare two seven-year cycles, and it is worth starting from experience to plan the next seven-year EU cycle. Here, I think there is no room for misconception, we have two completed seven-year development cycles, we also have the comparison, there is one planned by the left and there is one planned by the Fidesz-KDNP. In the 2007-2013 development period, the Left spent only 16 per cent of its resources on economic development, while the national government spent 60 per cent of the 14-20 cycle on economic development. We have already said that, in our view, this is not Brussels support, it is not Brussels charity, it is not Brussels charity to the Hungarian people, but this is the source and per diem of Hungarian people, they belong to us, we do not have to thank them; of course, the decency wishes us to thank them, but we do not have to thank them, we do not have to beg for this, because it is for the Hungarian people. And when I hear from your speeches here that you want Hungary to fall from these funds, you want all kinds of procedures to be launched against Hungary on the basis of all kinds of trumped-up accusations from which you hope to benefit politically, and now, on this subject, you hope that only the 2022 election campaign is on your mind, in the middle of a pandemic and in the planning of re-opening, you will have nothing but the political ambitions of 2022, and therefore you will not be able to think objectively about it, nor will the Orbán government and their hatred for us be held back, their patriotism a little further. [[Towards Catalin Czech sitting in the box:]] And if we are not being reported here in Brussels now, if the Congresswoman is already here, then instead of working on Hungary's loss of resources, we should be able to spend as much as possible, as the Secretary of State has said; that is why she, as a member of the government, has started discussions with local government associations, civil society organisations and whom she has listed. The left, therefore, spent 16% on economic development, most of the other money without visible results in that development cycle; and it also had visible results: building a tunnel over the highway on a plain, it was a huge and visible result. The drawdown of resources has also been much more effective and has been more effective in the last seven years than in the previous left-wing planning cycle, more than four times faster than the average weekly payment and four times more than in the 2007-2013 period. Hungary was threatened by a 25-30 percent loss of resources from the development errors of the Gyurcsány system, and at the time of the 2010 government change, it was found that the Bajnai government lied about the use of EU funds, just as Ferenc Gyurcsány lied about budget figures in 2006. In the 2010 election campaign, the Left lied that Hungary was always in the first trimester of using and drawing on EU development funds, as Mr Ujhelyi said at the time, but this turned out to be a huge left-wing lie, since Hungary was able to draw EUR 3.8 billion from the EUR 28.9 billion funding available to our country in the cycle until 30 April 2010. At this time, we are halfway through the seven-year cycle 2007-13, and the amount drawn is 15 percent of the total amount of development, a ridiculously low amount, even twice that amount would have been an amazingly bad result if they had reached 30 percent, but only 15 percent had been called down to the half of the cycle. The EU's left-wing development policy before 2010 was characterised by a lack of focused strategic planning and project management views, missed opportunities, wasted opportunities and excessive corruption. In addition, the European Commission has generally authorised Member States to pay advances from 2006 onwards and has introduced the concept and system of advance payments for the sake of previous experience and more efficient use of resources. This positive opportunity was also welcomed by the Member States. Guess who didn't take it? Hungary, which has not, on any occasion, submitted such an advance payment to Brussels under the socialists. [[19.00]] As a result of the total misuse of the left-wing resource, employment in Hungary has not improved during this period, GDP per capita has not increased in rural Hungary, and funds have almost exclusively been made available for visual investments that have not made any progress and for payment of left-wing principle friends. There were also a lot of problems with the development policy system, since the institutional system inherited by mid-2013 needed a significant correction both in its structure and method, as well as in its rules of procedure and in its decision-making, and I put it delicately. Until the government change in 2010, the average weekly amount of payments was only HUF 5.5 billion, which, until the beginning of the institutional transformations, was upped only to HUF 18.5 billion per week, and the allocated mass of resources rose radically towards the end of the cycle. In your time, Hungary was at its lowest level in terms of data on resource use. We can also remember that, for example, in 2006, before the global economic crisis, Hungary had the worst budget deficit figure in the world. There are former state ministers sitting here from that time, you know that, because then you kept it a secret, kept it a secret. In fact, I'm unfair, because the war-torn Lebanon was the only one who was worse than us with a budget deficit in 2006. We know very well that the paper application, the absolute inadequate IT background and lack of it put a huge burden on both applicants and the institutional system, as well as an untraceable procedure of fragmented, messed-up legislation during that period. In June 2013, the loss of resources already amounted to HUF 500 billion per day, which is why the Fidesz-KDNP national government had to intervene and take the necessary measures. We can also talk about the various corruption cases that are linked to you, but I think it is quite clear that there has been a tendency to have a cycle that you have planned, and it has been characterized by loss of resources, penalties, has not called off resources in time, has not called down enough resources, has not been a candidate-friendly system. In the meantime, in the current closed seven-year development cycle, it appears that the programmes are well-directed and respond to reality, as there is a huge, 166 percent call for proposals for these applications, so it seems that they respond to those needs, not in your time, that only a few applicants have submitted some kind of demand for them, but that they are applying with a mass of businesses precisely because they are well targeted and that they can put together programmes and operational programmes that match the needs and reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the left, do not deny the facts that happened in your time. These are facts, they have happened, you have left behind a tragic governance that has brought this country to the brink of bankruptcy, and, by the way, most of this has been the use of completely inadequate EU funds. Now we have a successful EU development cycle behind us and we hope that we have an even more successful development cycle ahead of us. Thank you, Mr State Secretary and colleagues, for the work that has been done in planning over the past period and which will continue to be done in the coming period in the negotiations with Brussels. I ask them to keep in mind that we can distribute these resources as much as possible to the Hungarian people, to Hungarian businesses, to the Hungarian nation, to as many people as possible, to be affected by development programmes, and to be able to achieve as many good things as possible, as we have seen many very good examples of this in the last seven years, and, unfortunately, in the seven preceding years, many bad ones. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-260	Thank you very much. It is now up to MEP István Ujhelyi, Member of the European Parliament. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-261	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Of course, I thank the MSZP for entering this debate today, because it is obvious that a lot of information can be transmitted by an MEP between the Hungarian population, the Hungarian decision-making institutions and the European institutions, which cannot always be seen from this wonderful room. I will get to the point, but I have to answer first, because some Fidesz, KDNP MEPs and members of the government can't put it any better, they lied like a stream of water. I'm surprised this perfectly built building didn't fall on us. I don't know your name, I'm sorry, Congressman, Lőrinc, I haven't memorized your name yet, but it's quite amazing what you said. There is nothing in which you would otherwise not have lied about the facts that you thought were facts. I know it's hard to steer. Believe me, I'm telling you with the greatest of goodwill. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You didn't make it!]] That it is not easy to govern, especially in a time of crisis! We got out of it, we got out of an economic crisis, we got out of an epidemic. He was lucky for the whole world, because even for that epidemic, which was predicted to be the same size as the recent Covid outbreak, we had to prepare ourselves without knowing what it was going to be. We've had our share. I know how hard it is to steer. Believe me, I feel the problem. That is why I would like to say to you with all my heart, as a fellow human being, as a fellow countryman, to many of you, as a contemporary, I look at Secretary of State, whether Szabolcs or Balázs, and we have known each other for a thousand years, so that they can believe that for the entire government, they should say to each other that there is greater modesty, less face, more truth and less struggle. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: That's right!]] Because if they were to behave this way, we would have a chance that you would behave differently either in the health treatment of the epidemic or in the management of the economic and social shocks of the epidemic, or in the use of European Union resources that affect several generations in the coming years. Do you know how I would have started this disease treatment? By convening the opposition parties, by convening interest representatives, professional organisations, and asking them to put aside our daily political battles, despite all our political differences, and to sit at a table. I will put it before you, as a government, who has all the data at his disposal, who has the thousands of apparatuss, who have everything in secret service and by any other means, to have the courage and ability to make decisions, and I will involve all the political powers of opposition, and I say that we should help each other out in this problem, because Hungarian society deserves it. Do you remember how they started last year? From the very first moment of the epidemic, it was more important for you to defeat the opposition and to briskeze than to save Hungarian lives. I don't deny you the good intentions of doing everything you can to save what we can. But, let's face it, after more than a year, there was much more power and attention in propaganda than on government. A good example of this is today that the opposition has had to propose a parliamentary debate day on which the opposition and the government have been holding joint conciliation forums in other countries from province to province, from representation to representation. Because the political elites there understood that it is important, not for two years, for a year, not for a government cycle, for a government elite, for a prime minister and his circle of friends, but also for many decades, to determine the fate of society and the economy of the Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy, what is happening with these resources. In Spain, on 7 October, the government, presenting a 60-page material, set off for a countrywalk despite the epidemic and presented a detailed plan of 60 pages, in which the allocations, resources, uses, everything was readable, started, and for months, it has been discussed for five months. You know, if I'm gonna figure out why they're doing what they're doing, then my answer is pretty simple. You want to behave exactly like the lords in the old vassal system. That everything, all goodness, welfare, income, crop, inherited wealth, unfortunate peasantry, or servants, when it's what age it is and who we're talking about, the values produced by it, and the spending of them, are your privilege. They're offended if the people rebel, if they want to get involved, if they ask questions. In the assembly of this country, we are oppositionists, but I can also say that as MEPs of this country, we also represent a very serious section of the people. [[19.10]] Well, what do you think you're trying to decide on a large amount of money that the opposition has to have a day of debate about leaking information at all? ! What do you think, Mr. Secretary? It's not about how many organizations you e-mailed to. No! Do you know what the European Union expects? It means that an accurate plan will be sent out in order of magnitude, forinted, distributed, precise scale, showing the entire EU development cycle and the reconstruction fund, and that professional organisations will give their views on the plan. Well, it's so easy to send out an e-mail, my dear friend, tell me your suggestions. It's not planning! It's March 22nd. Mr Secretary of State, believe me, you know Brussels well, and I, too, in the EU institutions, will not go through this plan and the so-called social consultation that has been conducted so far. They're gonna get their shit together because they might point at Soros, point at migrants, point at the virus, point at the traitorous opposition, but we're gonna lose resources, or they're gonna slip out of your fault. You know, the way it worked for the vassals back in the day was to focus on one thing, the supreme vassal, and it's important that we give a little down, divide, I have vassals, and pay attention up. There was nothing more important than being in the feudal chain. This is not what the European Union wants to finance. The European Union wants to finance the future of Hungarian society, tens of millions of Hungarians and hopefully as many and more European Union members as possible, not in the mother country, and you are involved in this. I, for one, don't want to keep you out of this. But you do us. You know, let me read you something very simple, because you can remember that. For this reason, the Parliament calls on the Government of Hungary to act in the European Council on the following principles when adopting the Next Generations EU Instrument and the EU Multiannual Financial Framework. I only pick two, everyone knows all five by heart. Ongoing so-called Article 7 procedures should be completed before the adoption of the Next Generation EU Instrument and the MFF. Making resources subject to political and ideological conditions is unacceptable under the rule of law. With this, the 133 brave, heroic Fidesz and KDNP representatives started and blackmailed the whole of Europe a few months ago by Viktor Orbán. Do you not realize what an amazing lie it is that in the fall they were still blackmailing and vetoing this huge amount of money that Hungary receives? We can ride on words, I think we deserve it anyway. Do you not realize that these two points, which I have said, are subject to the condition of 133 brave, independent and independent vassals of the Hungarian Parliament, have not been achieved? The rule of law mechanism will be alive as of 1 January. What did the president of the SAO say? Did you listen to his speech? It was boring enough, and I had to get my head up a lot myself to listen to you, to listen to you. He said that the President of the SAO should help to remember precisely that the so-called rule of law mechanism represents uncertainty in the planning of the budget. Oops! Well, is there a rule of law mechanism if the SAO already knows that there is a need to be careful in planning the budget because we may not have the resources? And yet you said that until Viktor Orbán settles this, you can't accept it, we veto. They didn't veto, thank God, fortunately. Not to mention that the procedures under Rule 7 have not been completed or even continued, there will be another round of negotiations in a few weeks during the Portuguese Presidency. Dear Members of the Fidesz and KDNP, after what they have lied about here, let us just say that they have until 30 April time to make a coherent proposal on the table, evasive to all problems and not just correspondence, but inclusive of opinions. Despite the fact that Hungary's important questions in the area of the rule of law, such as our law on public procurement or domestic measures on OLAF findings, are good indicators, but this is again a lie! We have seen it precisely in recent weeks, your lackey media and your propaganda machine have attacked several Commissioners of the European Commission because they have said important things otherwise. For example, that today's Hungarian public procurement law in its current form, if it remains in force, does not comply with Hungary's institutional system and requirements of the rule of law. This needs to be changed. Or, let's say, OLAF's report, which analysed the period 2015-2019, in the period 15-19 the financial penalty, the financial penalty for the development resources at that time, was as high as possible in the 27 Member States of the European Union and even in 28 Member States at that time. The EU average was 0.34 percent. Do you know how much Hungarian was? Three, nine, ten times. Is that what you said a few minutes ago, Secretary of State, that the OLAF reports say that Hungary is doing fantastically? I understand that for the Public Procurement Act, Mr. State Secretary said that new reforms would come, but I would get shit-faced, because the Public Procurement Act is famous in Hungary for having the highest number of single tender procurements in the European Union, which is one of the most important indicators of the existence of state corruption. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Only that's not true!]] And from now on, if personalised public procurement is carried out with the approval and will of the government, believe that the European Union will not approve the spending of Hungary, which we will all experience as losses. Well, that's why you have to change it, and we're going to have to replace you soon. Let me tell you two more things. One is what my party president Bertalan Tóth referred to. It is truly amazing that I have had to fight with you for months to be willing to answer the question, for example, that a European Union programme, called the SURE programme, which has left 9 billion euros right in it, Balázs, I think you are in the picture as well. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Secretary of State!]] , and in December I asked for it, I e-mailed it, talked it over with the European Commissioner so that Hungary could apply again, you know, this is the program for which self-employed people, taxi drivers, hairdressers, others could receive wage support from the Hungarian State with EU support, or even hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people could receive 80% wage support, not something that Hungarian employees have not yet been able to pay, but why not apply for real money? Throw back my letters, they won't answer. I don't understand! I would be pleased if, for example, you would also mention this in a reply by the Secretary of State. Finally, let me mention one question that they are deeply silent about. I don't think those of you sitting in this room on the side of the government know exactly what the big plan is, because I'm not sure the Prime Minister told them that. So, while we are discussing the amount of money we have here, HUF 5600-5700 billion from the so-called "Next Generation" EU, i.e. from the reconstruction in Europe, 13 countries have already ratified the legislation in this regard, since individual Member States need to ratify it in order to otherwise enter into force for the whole community. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Because half of it is credit!]] We are sitting here, looking at the entire spring legislative agenda before our meeting, and it has not even been announced in the legislative line. Will they even want to blackmail the European Union again, or is it just a sham that it is not yet in the line of ratification? Ladies and Gentlemen, Obviously, there are goals that are particularly important to us socialists, which Bertalan Tóth has spoken about. I would like to highlight one thing and I look forward to your partnership with the government: the programme of the European Health Union is a little Hungarian, because we have fought for it a lot. [[19.20]] Thus, the European Health Union finally has a budget of EUR 5.1 billion, and there has never been such a separate budget for European health. This will also be used for the public health care and development of Hungarian people. Please note from the Hungarian plan that Hungary's health, patients and workers deserve more. Thank you very much for your attention. And if Enikő Győri is back, let me note that Enikő said that Congresswoman said that we are undermining the good news of the Hungarian government in Brussels. [[Intruder from the benches of the ruling parties.]] The Hungarian government has long since lost its reputation, not only in Brussels, but also in the European Union. We are the ones who represent Hungarian interests as patriots. We've known each other for a long time, as ambassadors, MEPs, I'm very sorry if they give you these papers, because they're not worthy of the professional past you have. Thank you very much for your attention, and I hope that in the next period we will adopt the plan for the European Union with which Hungary can manage. Thank you. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2021-03-22-262	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, a representative of Fidesz, I will inform you because I see that not everyone knows this, that when a member of the European Parliament speaks for technical reasons at the end of his speech, our colleagues will calculate the time given by the group. So it is not about how the clock stands, but for technical reasons this happened later, so in the case of MSZP and Mr Ujhelyi, as in the case of Mrs Enikő Győri, for example. This is specifically and solely for technical reasons, but only for information. Representative Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, is next. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps Mr Secretary of State said at the end of his speech that some of us are naive, that we would think that this topic might bring Hungarian citizens and us closer to seeing the same common reality that surrounds us. Unfortunately, the last three or four hours of debate have confirmed me, and it is likely that if there were parliamentary mediation, then also the viewers and students of us, that we really live in two completely separate worlds, we see two completely different realities. I would not want to repeat the debate on the speeches so far, I would like to focus on an area that may have been affected by several people here in their speeches, but I think that if we are talking about the use of resources from the European Union, then let us face it, that one of the most important players in this system is the Hungarian entrepreneur. I apologise, a lot has been said here in today's debate, but I strongly reject it, and perhaps let me say my indignation to you that when some opposition representatives stand up and say that European Union funds have been stolen here in recent years, and that everything that has happened around European resources is only corruption, abuse, and fattening the NER system that you are looking at, in addition to lying, insulting tens of thousands of Hungarian entrepreneurs. I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members how you have done an EU proposal. Do you know a business that started an EU project? I would like to say that it is not a daughter's dream to put together a business plan, to start a development, take responsibility, nights, free time for an entrepreneur to venture into such a project. It's not free money. They don't throw that at people. It's not an amount you think can only be stolen! This implies a very serious preparation, a very serious job, responsibility, faith in the future from entrepreneurs who start at EU funds. And on their behalf, let me reject the fact that what happened here in EU funds is all wrong, that's all corruption, and it's all in Fidesz's best interests. Let me just give you a few figures on this, and now there's only one programme of data here, which is perhaps the most important thing for businesses, this is the GINOP programme group. By the end of December 2020, 147 calls for proposals were launched in this group, amounting to more than HUF 3000 billion, and nearly 20 thousand Hungarian SMEs were launched in these applications, won and tried to implement the project they were aiming for. This concerns an 80-100 000 Hungarian entrepreneurial community through related companies, and I did not include agricultural applications in this, and I did not include applications that were paid through other funds. When some people stand up here, excuse me, parizer knights, and say that everyone here has stolen this money, and everyone who has appeared in this system is corrupt, and I apologize for not knowing Hungarian reality and disdaining these businesses. And I'm sorry, I really remember where we started. Before 2010, when Hungarian entrepreneurs felt that they were virtually or were considered milk cows by the Hungarian state or as potential criminals and harassed the Hungarian entrepreneurial system through propertyisation investigations, these speeches, which some opposition representatives allow themselves to translate in relation to EU funds into Hungarian businesses, are reminiscent of this time, and we do not want to bring this time back. We do not want to bring back the time when Hungarian businesses had neither a source nor a purchasing power nor a predictable economic environment. And I believe that the new EU fund cycle will continue the results that did appear in the life of Hungarian businesses after 2010 that it was not the branch that had to make plans, it was not the banks that had to run for non-existent credit, because there was only a loan for interest, not to mention purchasing power, which practically destroyed most businesses, and not to mention the unpredictable economic environment where tax laws were amended during the year, and there was no way to plan in this country. We remember this time, and we don't want to bring it back. And I trust that the results of the use of EU funds after 2010 can be continued. And if we wanted to have a professional debate, if Mr Ujhelyi is still here, then I would say to him that the most important thing would be to make the European Union understand, for example, that in the administrative and complicated legal rules that Hungarian applicants have to take over, for example, how to help Hungarian businesses. We made a lot of progress in this, by the way, after 2010, but not enough. Today, it is not easy to write or manage an EU tender and then go through accurate accounts within the European Union, and for example, to set up a common platform in the European Union on how to make these resources simpler, faster and more usable for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. [[19.30]] And to argue that it has been good for the financial use of the last seven years, I am only bringing here one result that may have already been said in today's debate. In 2009, the total number of small and medium-sized enterprises was 39 per cent of the business development resources available at the time, with 85 per cent in 2020. And I think that this is the direction and this is the professional position on where the European Union's writings should be carried out. And yes, we believe, and this can be a debate, of course, that European Union funds can basically get to the country's growth through businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises are the ones that can enrich and advance this country through job creation, innovation, digitalisation and all the goals that are also reflected in the current draft, through their work, through their employees. Dear fellow Members, Unfortunately, as has been said in today's debate, many arguments or many proposals have not been made in relation to the submitted or familiar plans. Perhaps that would have been the most important point of today's meeting. And allow me to make one more comment, because here we are talking about Budapest, and I would, in addition to representing businesses, be primarily a member of Budapest. It is quite simply not true that Budapest would suffer any disadvantage in the current social consultation or in the use of resources so far. Let me give you two examples. About 40 percent of all EU development resources have been sent to Budapest in the previous government cycle, based on the data I know. This is well above the population share of the capital city in the country. Nor is that statement true, which you yourself, mayor, denied in one of the press orchestras the other day, there is a direct consultation. Precisely in connection with some of the major projects of the next EU cycle in Budapest, there was a very serious discussion, which Mr. Mayor himself considered to be a good direction. But perhaps this is also the right thing to do. I would not comment on public procurement or other things that have been said, but I would like to say at the end of my speech: thank you and thank the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises once again for all the work they have put into applying for EU funds in recent years, and they have tried to make the best use of these EU funds. I am convinced that without their support and their contribution, thanks can therefore once again not be used effectively for any EU funding. We will support any plan here that uses these resources as efficiently as possible with their assistance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-264	Thank you very much. The representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Zoltán Varga, is next. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am so sorry that Secretary of State Agostházy cannot be present. We have heard several speeches from him, perhaps a bit cynical, arrogant, and pompous. I don't really blame you for that, because that's what you see in the Prime Minister's Office, that's what you learn, that's what this team actually knows. However, I wanted you to join us in complementing his slightly outraged set-up, where's the money? He left out his list of key items. For example, the Government of Hungary and the Government of Viktor Orbán are now the most expensive government in Europe. The Secretary of State probably didn't think that the country of Viktor Orbán, the country of the brother-in-law of Orbán, formed in his own image, was the most corrupt country in Europe. And Mr. Secretary of State did not mention the most important thing, that one of Hungary's most intelligent men, Mr.Lőrinc Mé-száros, who, in a few years' time, has not only turned himself into one of the richest people in the world, that is, Viktor Orbán's help [[Nacsa Lawrence: What?]] He's the reason for this. It is interesting that Lőrinc Mészáros, who, once again, owes his fortune to God and Viktor Orbán, now earns 304 thousand forints per minute, mostly from European sources. And Minister of State said that he was proud, because Hungary is one of the most effective defence countries and one of the best crisis management in Europe. I don't know what you mean, Mr. Secretary. Is it possible that between March 2020 and March 2021, the government of Orbán has only transferred HUF 289 billion to sport? Did you give the churches 154 billion while healthcare was forced to settle for 60 billion forints? Did you mean, Mr. Secretary, that most of the world's population-related Covid victims are Hungarian? Is that what you mean? You mean today's casualties are 189? That at the end of the last week, we've lost the population of a village? And our health care is on the verge of collapse? Is that what you mean? And while the government is engaged in a permanent war against common sense and the European Union, we see that, in fact, all state tasks will be financed by the European Union. And let us not forget the most important thing because that is not the point, because we could accept that it is mostly the service of the Oligarch system in Orbán that is linked to EU funds. And if it has not been clear to anyone so far why it is fighting with all possible means, such as pig on ice Orbán, against the EU linking the payment of EU aid to the rule of law criteria, it is now clear to everyone, in the countryside, in Debrecen, and in us that practically everything that is considered to be development in Hungary over the next seven years will be financed by the European Union. Including Butcher Lion, who will not bend down for 20,000 forints if the wind blows in front of him, because he earns 304 thousand forints per minute. And while the government is fighting some crazy surreal freedom fight with the Western civilian world, Brussels, it's taking amazing fortunes and amazing money from it, which is basically spent on keeping NER alive and on its own oligarchs. And we know very well how this system works, because Viktor Orbán and you, my fellow government representatives... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: pro-government!]] You, my fellow government Members, have come up with a perfect system of this, called public procurement. It is shocking that 50 percent of the public procurement market is funded by EU funding, and 90 percent of these jobs are otherwise corrupted and contaminated. This, of course, is because corruption is a system of systemic, top-run, centralised and government-coordinated system in Hungary. State institutions have long since been independent, and even billionaire fraud reveals little consequences. Well, we see your fellow Members have been accused by the D.A.'s office, and they're sitting here to vote, by the way. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Csaba Czegledy, that's right!]] The well-established corruption systems you run are practically nothing more than public money pumps. Think of the settlement government bonds, the central bank foundations, the tao money, or now your new miracle weapon, the NER innovation, the total solitude of higher education. [[19.40]] We know that very well. It's not us, it's not the opposition, it's experts. On average, public procurement is overpriced by 25 percent, improvements are often completely unjustified, calls are designed for specific companies and bidders. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] And while you know very well that you have failed, all indications are that every step of the government, the lack of transparency of the 2021-27 planning process, the secrecy of the plans, is that there is a fear that the systemic corruption risks are not to be solved but to be further strengthened. And I have to say, if the government continues to go up against the wall like this and does not take seriously its obligation to consult, or to coordinate with sectoral actors, local governments and civilians, it will simply cross them if these very important actors are left out of the process, if the fattening of the Orbán family remains a priority for Mészáros and the other oligarchs close to the government, then, on the one hand, the introduction of EU sanctions will have to be expected and, on the other hand, that these plans will not be suitable for anything. You're going down, and the country's going down. Well, that's what we need to avoid, which is why we're gonna have to replace you. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-03-22-266	Congressman Gábor Riz, Member of the Fidesz Parliament. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I'm ashamed. I'm ashamed because I'm the one with the [[Zoltán Varga: Could be!]] I came here with naivety that the opposition would like to hold a professional debate between the Hungarian people, including the people of Borsodi, among them about the money of the people of Ozd, about the development money that can be expressed in billions, about the development resource that affects the future of all of us. Thank you to Erzsébet Schmuck, for he is the only one here who really gave me professional arguments and reasons. Thank you for that, because beyond what you say in our area, we have heard rallying and slogans in a weak commercial catering unit called slogans, which we have heard any day in Parliament on any day before the agenda, after the agenda. What would have been good today, which was initiated by the opposition, if we had actually argued against the argument, we would have talked about billions of Hungarian people what would happen in the next planning period. It would have been important if we had all been able to go home today, at least by title or territory, there were foundations in which we could agree what would happen to our roads, what would happen to domestic industry, domestic agriculture, what would happen to the Hungarian countryside, villages, the Hungarian environment, the natural environment, which is the future of all of us. That's what I was gonna do today. I wasn't lazy, I looked up a lot of documents, I read them, I took notes, I pulled them out, which I thought today might be important. Unfortunately, there was very little concrete encounter with the real numbers, the real arguments that have been made today. If I want to sum up your essence so far today, I can put it in three directions: stolen, change of government and 1080 billion or 18 000 billion. That was the whole point of today. It would be good for the Members of Parliament sitting here to say who is in their opposition that the Hungarian people do not ask and expect the opposition to do so. They expect you to have alternative proposals, stand against the proposals of the government and the majority of Parliament, with certain senses, specifics and knowledge of the countryside, because today, I believe that we are few elected individual Members who meet the electorate personally in their constituency every day. And if I run into any of the citizens of my 71 settlements tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, I will have the rightful criticism: Congressman, you sat there in the evening, I listened, tell me where I will find my roads, the future of my workplace, the well-being of my children, where I will find the future of Hungarian agriculture, where the future of Hungarian forestry, the Hungarian quality goods will be, how my child can be an entrepreneur and why he should be an entrepreneur. That's what everything we talked about today was supposed to be about. Allow me, as Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, and in particular as an ózdi, to contribute a few thoughts to the lessons that are leaning into this evening. On the one hand, I would look back for two thoughts on previous planning periods. May I add so much professionalism that I have been in some way associated with territorial development as a policy, as an opportunity and as a resource, since the first Regional Development Act 96. It is very important to know that the necessary part of the first period was in the wrong sense of the word, that patchy, pointy, unthankful improvements were made, which we later saw the damage, as industrial or agricultural or infrastructural developments did not coincide with the needs of the locals and the general development of the local economy. I believe that we have been able to make great progress in this area over the past period, with the integrated territorial development programme, which has defined the territorial development potential and curve of a county at county level, and we have made a lot of progress in considering, discussing and socialising what we consider as our own opportunity, how this returns to this programme. And the resources were adapted to that. And I am pleased, Mr State Secretary, as you have said, that there is nothing new during the day, because the name of the previous operational programmes remains, with the addition of an additional term, since the current needs and opportunities are formulated along the lines of previous principles, by what we can add to what is appropriate to the spirit of the age, the need for age, and all that surrounds us with regard to a world changing in its capacity. It is also very important for me to say that the opposition has given us cold and little warmth that I can give examples of earlier planning periods when meeting abandoned school buildings. I look at President Hiller, who, knowing precisely the situation of Hungarian pedagogy and Hungarian public education, knows what a closed eight-room school means, where everything is there from the boiler room to the gym, to the almost sports hall, but there are no children in it, and in how many settlements there are only three such schools in my constituency. If I look at businesses that have worked for two weeks out of two billion forints, then the local people have reason to believe: why do you like to sit there, what decision-makers, if you can only formulate or make such decisions that deceive us, take billions out of our pockets, and while not implementing the programmes that you have put here as promises? This was my territory, for example, in Percupa, where for two weeks there was an air-conditioning plant. Today, thank God, we've been able to fill it with content again, and local people are working there. On the other hand, I am happy that as a public figure, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County was able to catch up with the first six weeks in terms of the economy as a driving role between counties. Why? Because he was able to use the resources well. Why? Because the developments organized with Miskolc-centricity and around the large growth centers, realisticly building on each other, creating supply circles, were able to create production chains that became viable, sustainable, and become so. Now, these resources are good for use. I am happy that I could play a role in this, if for no other reason, perhaps as a modest contributor, as a representative, because if for no other reason, I could sit there during the organization, during the negotiations. [[19.50]] In the economic development and innovative programme, 1882 projects have been managed over the past period, and some 121 billion forints have come into this area. He gave his spine to the county, from Sátoraljaújhely through Ozd, to many settlements that had previously lost the regime change for long and long years. It is also important to say that, as the companies around Miskolc have multiplied, so have people mobilized, and from the area, from the agglomeration to a permanent, secure workplace, helping small businesses as members of the supply chain, they have been able to build their interests. It was also important that, besides Tiszaújváros, Kazincbarcika, as chemical centers, Ozd, and even Szerencs and Újhely were able to catch up with their industrial opportunities. In the case of Ozd alone, more than HUF 15 billion came to the development of the local economy. The county was able to stand on a new, partly alien, but full-scale foot of the county. One of the things that was very important was the tourism, which, taking into account Tokaj-Hegyalja as a prominent destination, went beyond this, and now new opportunities have been mentioned, like the region of Ozd-Putnok between the Aggtelek National Park and the Bükk National Park, which was able to connect with its specific craft products, its specific natural features. We can also create attractions in the near future, such as the entire thoughtful development project of the Rakaca reservoir, which offers another basket for the actors of Hungarian tourism, who will find their own activities, attractions, and local value. As Ozdi, allow me to say that it may be a little strange that it was also a metallurgy, partly a mining town, how it comes to tourism. The government believed and trusted in the idea that saving industrial buildings would create an attraction for which people would come. We have also hosted several state ministers and ministers, among others, Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, who admired what was done there in these two metallurgical facilities. I have received numerous criticisms from the opposition side, even from an architect, that there was an unnecessary investment in Ozdon. It was not unnecessary, 80,000 people visited this institution, and many wondered what new content the two rehabilitated buildings had received international architectural recognition. It is also important to know that the part of the county that was not part of the growth potential, in addition to Miskolc, Tiszaújváros and Kazincbarcika, has been able to recreate parts of the county for which it is good to live and to be good: good air, clean environment, and more and more young people from the central region of the country, and less young people who want to be safe and calm. Congresswoman Schmuck knows exactly what I'm talking about. Many people want an environment like that 71 settlements in that area. I am proud of what we have achieved with the support of the European Union with the help of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian entrepreneurs, and I am proud that with these formulated ideas, this planning period, which ended in 2020 and can be reworded by 2021, more and more people living there are thinking about calling my children home and calling all those who want to undertake, live, live and thrive here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-268	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, an independent Member, will now give his opinion.
u2021-03-22-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that an opposition initiative could have taken place on this day of debate on the use of EU funds, because, when we are living in the period of the Crown Virus pandemic, for a good year now, it is important to give appropriate answers to the challenges that we have to face at both European Union and domestic level. This is particularly important, Honourable Parliament, when we see that we will have unprecedented amounts of aid. Therefore, it does not matter at all how these will be used. As a responsible Member of Parliament, I think it is important that I make the specific proposals that can push this issue away towards efficiency. Let me bring you another aspect, and this is the 21st. The importance of responding to the challenges of the century. As Chairman of the Joint Vas County Association, I would like to inform the Parliament that our association has made concrete and constructive proposals for the regional development concept at county level. We put this together and sent it to the President of the Vas County General Assembly in such a way that we can answer the questions that have been raised in the county concept, and we have tried to examine them from as many sides as possible by focusing on the quality of life of people living in Vas County. Dear Parliament, I think it is important that, looking back here, we should focus on more than 15 years of our membership of the European Union, contrary to what has already been done, or improving the rates, rather than investing in economic recovery and job creation. The area of research and development, the issue of support for micro and small enterprises, is of particular importance. I myself have tabled parliamentary proposals in this context. I regretted that these were rejected from a pro-government perspective, as it would be important to support this sector. We need to give priority to this issue in Vas County, because we have a large number of micro and small enterprises in our county, and we need to support them in order to improve the country's competitiveness. Another important issue, which could also improve Hungary's competitiveness, is the issue of the rapid introduction of the euro, which I have already brought up at the meetings of the Committee on European Affairs, and I have already initiated here in plenary to hold a substantive debate on this, even if my fellow Member Nacsa indicates that he does not agree with this. I think this is sad, because I think that we can improve the competitiveness of our country in this way and that a meaningful professional debate could be held on this issue in particular, as well as, for example, on how renewable and green energy should be centred. Here, too, I will give you a concrete example of residential building insulation programmes, because if we look back over the last few years, we can see that this has happened in the case of state institutions, but in the residential area, our country has very serious shortcomings, so that the use of EU funds should be considered in this respect, and this should be the focus among other things. State Secretary Szabolcs Imre Ágostházy also spoke about the development of public transport, and this is really important. In light of a specific example, I have just submitted a written question to promote the Szombathely-Oberwart, Szombathely-Feeder railway line, just tomorrow Mr.Péter Szijjártó's response to foreign affairs and foreign affairs, and I hope that there will also be positive elements in this, as, for example, this development could improve the situation of commuters in Austria, but overall, this is a very important initiative for those on the western border, and there are supporters on the Austrian side. So we are typically talking about a case that we can make use of in the European Union cycle, and we can take substantial steps if we have the government's will to do so. For example, cycling has also been mentioned. I regret that, at today's committee meeting on the Economic Committee, there was no comment on my proposal in this regard from a pro-government perspective. I hope, however, that this issue will continue to be focused on, since Márius Révész in this matter, it must be acknowledged that he has actually made substantive proposals and provided us with studies. So I trust that these will not remain at the level of words and ideas, but we can expect very serious improvements. But I also think the same thing about climate protection goals. Here, this is largely linked to the aforementioned Community transport. I would conclude, Honourable Parliament, by saying that in the next period, the objectives of health, education, digitalisation, research and development, innovation or climate protection are those that we need to focus on as effectively as possible and as far as XXI is concerned. In order to adapt as much as possible to the challenges of the century. I really hope that's how it's gonna go down. I will make my constructive proposals to this end. Thank you very much for your attention. [[20.00]]
u2021-03-22-270	Thank you very much. Before we begin a two-minute circle, the LMP Member's lady, Erzsébet Schmuck, can give her opinion. Here you go. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-03-22-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My mic's on now. He didn't say anything at the lead speaker's. In my recent comment, I planned to talk about the task of halting biodiversity reduction. I will do so, but first I would like to respond to a sentence that I said in my lead speakers, namely that in the coming period we must prepare for very radical changes and make radical changes in the economy and in social policy, if we are to face global challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, if we look at the use of European Union resources over the past period, I think we need to experience that the use of these resources has not, in fact, served to bring Hungary closer to sustainable development, but rather to move away from sustainability and sustainable development. Why am I saying this? Obviously, within sustainable development, we need a sustainable economy and not sustainable economic growth, and I have said many times enough that the two are not the same, i.e. a sustainable economy and obviously a sustainable society as a whole. The Hungarian economy is not sustainable, it is not crisis-resistant. An economy that is not sustainable cannot be said to be sustainable, which stands on one or two feet. However, if we look at the Hungarian economy and economic policy, it has focused on two main areas: the automotive industry and tourism. We saw that the crisis was here, the crisis had brought both of them in, and the Hungarian economy was in enough trouble. An economy that goes towards sustainability builds much better on local resources, building much better on the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. So I would like to stress that if Hungary wants to move in this direction, it will also be necessary to examine the future use of EU funds in this respect. But social policy is not sustainable either, because social justice is a very important element of sustainability, and there have been very, very unfair processes in Hungarian society. I do not want to be very specific about this, we talked about it quite a lot, more and more people were getting less and less in Hungarian society, and fewer and fewer are getting more and more. So I think it would be very important for us to take a good look at these resources from a social policy point of view. Then I'd like to get to the matter of biodiversity. We have experienced in recent times that climate change has exploded in our lives, so let us just think that perhaps two years ago, one and a half to two years ago, there was little mention of climate change in the Parliament. The same is the case with regard to the drastic loss of biodiversity. It is still quiet today in the Parliament, and this is not something that can be said here, or it is simply not an issue of preserving biodiversity, namely climate change and reducing biodiversity, these two together are dramatically linked, extremely interrelated and reinforcing. They say experts, as well as decision makers or politicians or ecologists, that drastic reduction of biodiversity is even worse than the acceleration of climate change. I really don't want to go into the details, but I'm sure if we destroy nature and biodiversity around us, we'll destroy ourselves. About a million species are dying in front of us today, and the existence of these species is at risk. There must be a change, because obviously this issue is linked to the over-use of natural resources, the degradation of organic services and, obviously, pollution. We also need to draw our own attention to the fact that if we want to tackle these issues, we want to solve them, they are interrelated and can be mitigated and resolved in a context. I believe that the good news is that the European Union's budget for 2021-27 can devote a significant part to mitigating these natural and environmental problems. I think that many of us are aware that biodiversity loss in Europe and in the European Union is alarming, species are disappearing, habitats are poor. It is no coincidence that the European Union adopted this new biodiversity strategy last year, which sets out some pretty tough steps, which will require us to adapt our own strategy, and that, hopefully, when this strategy comes to Parliament at some point in the not-too-distant future, it will also be possible to talk about the implementation of the previous period. Unfortunately, however, we have to see that the last five years have not been about nature conservation results, but rather we have lived here in Hungary, too, that nature has perished because the green surface was simply eaten by investments and investments in the green area. By the way, even if, perhaps, I do not know, the forest area has increased quantitatively, but by improving the quality of forests, we cannot be very satisfied with its improvement. In many places, reeds were killed, tartled, and cemented elsewhere, so there are quite a few problems. Obviously, such a comment does not give us the opportunity to mention all the necessary steps in the field of nature conservation using EU and domestic resources, so I would now like to list some of the most urgent tasks for you without the need for completeness. Firstly, the national biodiversity strategy, which is now being prepared, should contain targets and concrete, accountable action plans, which could provide an appropriate basis for the formulation of EU proposals, in order to achieve the objectives set. Further protected areas should be identified on the basis of EU principles, which requires a scientific assessment of the values to be protected, continuous monitoring and an increase in the number of nature protection guards. I don't think a lot of people here think about why nature conservation guards are important. Believe me, for example, national parks have a large part of their professional work in their hands. Healthy and extensive forests also help to protect soils and to preserve water, and therefore the area of sustainable forests with high biodiversity and welfare management needs to be increased, and the area of cropping should be planted with species suitable for the habitat once the crop has been completely removed. It is important to improve degraded habitats, because this helps to preserve biodiversity. Such are the cleaning of the soiled grasslands, forests with invasive tree species, and other areas, and the control of ragweeding. During the last three cycles, the green areas in the Community have been hit by many disasters, i.e. investments designed or built in urban parks, unwarranted wood cuttings, and the relaxation of building permits. It is no coincidence that LMP has already submitted a bill for a green-surface moratorium. The urban green areas, I think, know that they not only promote relaxation, sport, recreation, but also play a role in climate protection, cooling cities, improving water supply, urban trees have a huge role to play in reducing air pollution and the diseases involved. It is not only the existing public parks that need to be protected, renovated; new ones need to be developed, and there are still some that I am going to list. [[20.10]] We cannot ignore the role of green areas, forests and parks in the case of a coronal virus pandemic. Motion in the air, rest, increases resilience, whereas, as is known, contaminated air helps spread the epidemic. And what is also important is the need to prevent further integration of Natura 2000 sites. Well, unfortunately, we've seen a lot of places where wood has been cut down in Natura 2000 territory, or is not intended to be used for that purpose. And it is also important to check compliance with conservation standards in these areas. Further conservation programmes should be launched in order to protect endangered animals and plants, and it is also important that scientific research, surveys, monitoring, awareness-raising, educational tasks, forest schools and gene banking and collection work can be carried out from EU sources. This incomplete list shows that the use of more EU funds than ever before cannot now be done as before, that most of the opportunities are not intended for our common objectives, but for the private interests of some. We therefore expect this House and the Government to accept our proposals, and we undertake that if we may accept external assistance in the further concrete development of certain areas, we are ready to work on this. Thank you very much for your attention. I know it is very rare here in Parliament to discuss such professional issues, but, honourable Members, believe me that these issues are simply a threat to our future and, together with climate change, the reduction of biodiversity is indeed a key issue for our future. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-272	Thank you. I salute my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, Head of the Group, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party will hand over nine minutes of the further timeframe of the political debate to the Fidesz Group. I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor in two minutes because I would like to respond to the comments of my fellow Member Nacsa, who, in his very forward-looking speech, said what I think the earliest figure was perhaps 2009, about what he was talking about, so that was 12 years ago, he knew exactly what was in 2006 and 2007. I can recall earlier things, and I remember when the Committee wanted to set up a committee of inquiry around OLAF reports in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and that's when I proposed it. And the reason I'm telling you this is because you said that in 2008-09 there was corruption, and then I suggested that corruption be better resolved with regard to OLAF investigations, that we open it, open it wider, that there should be deeper immersion that can take part in this work. For example, Roland Mengyi, who stood before the court for economic crimes at the time, was still Vice-President of the Economic Commission. [[Attila Mesterházy: Amazing!]] Then he should take part in this work and hold the meetings of the committee when Congressman Mengyi can be there as vice-president of the committee. Perhaps we should also invite György Simonka, because then we could only have received a broader picture of the use of EU funds, the conduct of criminal proceedings linked to it, so that the Economic Committee could have done even more thorough work and put a substance on Parliament's table that could have greatly helped clarity here. By the way, they were fellow Members in the meantime, and now I might even suggest a Happy fellow Member on the same team. And one more thing about transparency in the remaining time: you know, we have more experience with you than we have any illusions left, because in the TOP applications, you know, even the county representatives could only look at what they wanted with a statement of confidentiality. That's what they decided. [[Attila Mesterházy: Unbelievable!]] Thank you for your patience.
u2021-03-22-274	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was inspired at first by the speech of Mr Ujhelyi, but of course I would also respond to Mr Cook. Congressman Ujhelyi said what an outrageous thing it has been for the last three hours that government officials and pro-government representatives have lied and then put a 15-minute lie stream down here in front of the Parliament. While we can look at his January-February social media entries in the last few weeks, in the middle of the epidemic situation, he demanded relaxation, opening, opening, loosening, and constantly putting up such items, Mr Ujhelyi Member. Now, of course, he's talking about the worsening epidemic. [[György Szilágyi: We wanted a consultation!]] Mr Zoltán Varga, a Gyurcsányist Member, we expect nothing more than an anti-vaccination, anti-national and anti-church, to describe the Member's speech. None of the left-wing Members have bothered to respond to today's news that the investigation into Welt has reopened in one of your biggest corruption cases, when 18 billion forints had to be repaid to the European Commission. They did not respond to the fact that 160 billion forints were stolen, according to the Commission, in the metro 4 case. They did not respond to a number of cases that occurred during your governance, in the worst-use EU cycle, under the most corrupt and irresponsible governance, especially between 2004 and 2010. Congressman Varga also did not respond to why he signed these Welt contracts to Klára Dobrev, one of your presidential candidates now, by the way, one of Jobbik's candidates for Prime Minister now, when 18 billion forints had to be repaid. We agree with Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck on this, which is precisely why we are saying that in the next EU planning cycle we want to spend much more money on digitalisation and green investment, green themes; we agree on this, Madam Member, then support us in our efforts to make much more money on greening programmes and make much more money on digitalisation programmes. Of course, we agree on that. And I would ask you to investigate with your fellow party members, Gábor Simon, László Puch, you know, there were such names around you, Zsolt Legény and the other corruption-suspecting MSZP Members, there is a problem with the allocation of EU funds. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-22-276	I also give the floor to Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, for a two-minute speech.
u2021-03-22-277	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Congressman Nacsa, what is the point of saying in this debate that Klára Dobrev, the candidate for Prime Minister Jobbik? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: One of them!]] Ours... No, there is one, there is one: James Peter, who is currently the most popular. By the way, I have to respond to your personal remark again. I consider myself to be an EU-critical representative, but to be a member or to be free? I've never used this license, I've never written it down, leave it to Novak Elök; I'll say it again: never. I don't know if the Pesti Guys ever wrote anything like that. Mr Ágostházy State Secretary for Public Procurement. The Council's recommendation from the Legislator: the lack of competition in public procurement remains an important problem. Public procurement related to projects co-financed by the Union: in recent years, the Commission has identified systemic deficiencies on the basis of audits, with a financial correction of around EUR 1 billion in 2019 for Hungary due to these shortcomings. 350 billion! I believe that you want to be honest about this, there is work to be done. On corruption, I am not saying specific cases, the same Council claims that there is no decisive and systematic action on high-level corruption. This is said by the Council, not the bureaucrats in Brussels, who, we know, eat from the hands of George Soros. So I'm not saying it's all about corruption, but to say that these serious allegations, these rogue attacks by the opposition, the Library, the European Council, can be seen! These need to be improved, and I wish you good luck sincerely! Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-22-278	Thank you. The next speaker was Ms Csöbör, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-279	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I really do not want to join the style of which of us can say more degrading things about the other, but let me say a few words about the mistreatment of Brussels and Brussels' lying policy. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] [[20.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, As long as Miskolc and its neighbourhood, the whole country and Europe, are fighting the epidemic hard, the Union is attacking us with said reasons, instead of helping us. The epidemic situation has made it clear that we need a strong, transnational cooperation, joint defence and a well-thought-out reboot. Unfortunately, the European Union is also dealing with its political objectives in this period rather than with concrete assistance. Instead of introducing campaigns and procedures for vague political and economic blackmail, action is and should be required. We need to get the tools to defeat the coronal virus as soon as possible. This could significantly reduce the enormous damage caused by the pandemic. Our country has always taken a firm stand, never let the nation's interests suffer. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right.]] We believe in solidarity, helping each other. The EU can count on Hungarian help and labour. We'll always be there, for better or for worse. That's how it was before the coronal virus, that's how it is now, and that's how it's gonna be in the future. This principle has also been given priority in the debate on the EU budget. The success of our policy is confirmed by the growing number of European investors choosing the Central European region, Hungary and its Miskolc and its surroundings, which started to catch up and has grown into a strong bastion of the European Community. During the Covid pandemic, the EU should best help in combating the epidemic and in economic recovery. Instead, unsubstantiated political attacks on the rule of law mechanism have brought our country from both the opposition and the European scene. However, we Hungarians have successfully defended our right and, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said, we have certainly achieved three things. We defended the European Constitution, so we did not allow it to be bypassed, we averted the danger of forcing the Hungarians to make decisions by means of budgetary means that we do not want to take and we do not want to accept them, and we finally defended the Hungarians' money, which will come in handy in the economic development of the coming years. The European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council approved the budgetary framework and the Next Generation EU Recovery Fund in December. We must make it clear, however, that the recovery package is not a gift and not some kind of donation, but a joint loan that we must repay. We Hungarians know exactly what a burden this is if the economy is under heavy debt. In Hungary, the working Hungarian people, who operate the country even before the epidemic, now during the epidemic and after the epidemic, are the true keepers of development in Hungary. Therefore, we protect jobs and as many jobs as the epidemic takes, we create more or more. The only way to spend this money is to think long-term, consider our own national considerations and look at the interests of future generations in the motherland, beyond our borders and beyond our borders. This is the primary condition of return to growth, and we cannot allow or allow to be blackmailed with budget and credit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-280	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Róbert Hondas from Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There were many arguments and arguments. To be honest, it would be good for all Members, be it anyone, to consider the fact that we are talking about the planning of the seven-year EU financial cycle ahead of us. The fact that we are bashing and scolding Brussels, as the Member in front of me said, I think that this is not going anywhere. Especially when there is such a short period of time to develop this concept, which I think is unprecedented, since it should be published on 30 April. I don't know how much you can help me with today's debate, and I hope you can, but I don't have any illusions, because unfortunately, the discourse is not going in the right direction. There have been a number of areas, many areas for development and important development, and I do not want to repeat them, but I would like to bring to this House an area that has perhaps been discussed less so far. A few speakers earlier said that in the previous government cycle, Budapest received 40 percent of the EU funds. I would like to note here that I have all due respect for Budapest and its developments in Budapest, and I consider this to be very, very important, but at the same time, if we look at Hungary's territoriality or population-proportionally, the 40 percent does not come out. And I think that it is the countryside that has been the loser of EU funds and EU uses in recent decades, so in the future I would like the current government to put more emphasis on rural development. We are facing an unprecedented level of EU funding and we have the opportunity to use it properly. This is an opportunity, if we make use of it, it can break out of the lag, the backwards either Budapest or the countryside, but if we don't make use of it, it would be a historic problem, a historical mistake, because I think and believe that we will break down, but I may even say that we will break down forever. It is perhaps first of all business development, which is the most important problem in the countryside, because it could create the strength to keep the rural population alive for themselves and their families, but at the same time, if we are talking about business development, let us first look at how it has given us the opportunity to have all the appropriate infrastructure investments in the region ready, whether we can safely say that in all the rural areas of Hungary. Well, that's what needs to be improved in the first place, because as long as there are no infrastructure developments and investments, neither economic nor tourism investments will arrive, because the first thing a larger company will see is what quality I can achieve by road or rail and how much time it takes. These are the opportunities, these are the improvements that we must first make in the countryside and, by the way, in the interests of Hungary as a whole, not just the countryside. At EU level, most of all, but here, in the Hungarian Parliament, the theory of subsidiarity and the importance of this is said on several occasions. It is really very important, and I think that we should put the concepts that are considered and created at the lower levels into the national concept, and that we ask EU decision-makers to be able to devote these appropriate resources to those areas. The county development concept has been completed in every county. In addition to studying this, I turned to all the mayors of the district, No.2 of Heves County, to comment on this, because although the concept was completed by theoretical experts, it can be said that they did so with the help of appropriate experts who asked them to do so, but at the same time the practitioners are on the other side. They are the mayors and municipal representatives and local government leaders who see the real situation and real problems from the practical side every minute of the day. Based on their feedback, I wrote a letter and turned to the head of the county assembly to install them. Well, here's this, too, please. The county development concepts adopted by the county assemblies should be incorporated into this, because, although I do not assume that there is a bad intention of the legislator, at the same time I claim that the countryside cannot be seen from Budapest. Let us listen to their views and take them into account, and on this basis let us create the concept that may be important for the seven-year EU financial cycle ahead. Once again, I would like to say that the catching up of the countryside, the elimination of its backwardness and the prevention of it can take place in the financial cycle ahead of us. There is resources, there is potential, there is a need for government will, and this means not only the future of the countryside, but also the future of Hungary as far as it means the future of the countryside. I ask that the concept be drawn up taking account of this and taking into account it. For our part, we want to pay particular attention, as I did in my speech to the countryside. I trust the government will do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[20.30]]
u2021-03-22-282	Thank you. Our next speaker is Csaba Nagy, Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would like to address the debate in terms of rural development and the development of small settlements. I think that, if we are talking about. 21-27, about this HUF 18 060 billion at the Euro-Forint 18 rate, then it is important to talk a little bit about the past, and it is important to clarify one or two things about what has changed significantly during the period of civil governance. Between 2007 and 2013, if we had asked small businesses, micro-enterprises or even medium-sized entrepreneurs and municipalities, we would have faced the fact that we tried to provide EU funds to applicants in an incredibly complex, complex and opaque system for many people. By 2013, we reached the point that the percentage of weekly payments did not exceed HUF 5.5 billion. This would have meant that we could have allocated these EU funds in about three decades. There was a need to clean up not only in the legislative environment, but also in the whole tendering mechanism itself. If you look at it from the point of view of the municipalities, you had to pay incredible amounts to applicants, you had to pay incredible amounts to friendly, successful applicants, and it was practically completely unpredictable who could apply for what and for what purpose for rural development. The municipalities had virtually no money, a lot of municipalities had to borrow money to start these investments. The result was, among other things, that the municipalities were indebted. There was a radical change in the next cycle, as the Hungarian government created the country's financial stability, and as the municipalities signed the contract, they could expect that the funds needed for the investment would arrive in their account within a few weeks, and this was the case. I would like to say that, at the moment, the negotiations with the leaders of the county towns, the leaders of the county municipalities, the county municipalities and the various local government associations have taken place. So I think that from the point of view of the local government, from the point of view of the settlements, this item is okay. To talk about specifics, too, because there are so many general, I apologise for the expression, but, for example, my fellow opposition Members have said so much about rural development that I would really like to quote specifics from three operational programmes that break down what and what the country has been able to spend from European Union and Hungarian sources. I looked at the municipalities that won in my constituency, Western Baranya, in the rural development programme in relation to specific waste water treatment. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would list them as: Almamellék, Merry Woman's Tree, Somogyházság, Szentlászló, Áta, Ócsárd, Csonkamindszent, Baksa, Páprad, Marine, Tesésny, Bakóka, Baranyaszentgyörgy, Gödre, Mindszentgodisa, Babarcszőlős, Bisse, Diósvisló, Drávacseplely, Drávaszerdahely, Garé, Spémes, Kisdér, Matty, Radfalva, Siklósbodony, Vága can make decisions and make these investments about where and to whom individual sewage treatment is being built. This is about 3.2 billion forints. If you look at the operational program of human resources development, two schools in Siklós, Sellye, Sásd, Vajszló, Nagydobsza, Somogyapáti, Szentlászló, Szigetvár, Pellerd, Drávafok, Harkány, Baksa, Szentlőrinc, Magyarmecske, Vásárosdombó, Mindszentgodisa were able to spend HUF 3.6 billion on their schools. And perhaps, if I may mention to you the operational programme for the development of areas and settlements, I can tell you that there was a HUF 1.9 billion development in kindergarten, nursery, Szentgodisán, Sásdon, Pellérden, Kétújfalu. These are the municipalities that can spend these resources on themselves to develop their own institutional networks. In Baranya County, 46 billion were spent on TOP development, with some 251 applications. My opposition fellow Members asked where the money was, in these settlements the money was. And one final thought: we never thought after 2007 that it would be possible to apply for EU funds in such a way that the municipalities would receive investment funds after signing the contract. And we did not think that Hungary's financial strength would be so great that in 2018 it could launch the programme "Hungarian Village" which, by the way, I think is a perfect complement to European Union funds, because it seems that the Hungarian countryside is so far from the European Union that it is really very difficult to start programs that will be there in everyday reality as tangible support for our settlements. In 2019, 2020 and 2021 we can spend HUF 600 billion exclusively from Hungarian sources on Hungarian settlements, on settlements that are less than 5,000 inhabitants. And there are two closing thoughts to finish my thoughts on the .Hungarian village: 1600 NGOs have received support from the Hungarian village in the last year, there are a total of 2678 settlements in Hungary where the village CSOK can be used, and this is due to the fact that, according to KSH data, there are 900 settlements in the last year, according to the data of the KSH, where the number of inhabitants started to grow. I think that this is perhaps the one that best indicates that EU funds and Hungarian funds have made sense and that these funds have gone to the right place. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-284	Thank you very much. I would ask my fellow Members, Ungár, Mesterházy and Cook, to continue their continuous and rather loud flyer meeting outside the plenary session. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologize for the behavior of my fellow Member Ungar. [[Defiance.]] In my two-minute speech earlier, I was not able to complete this story completely, which is a real story, and it happened in the Economic Committee that I suggested that even Simonka and my fellow Member Mengyi take part in the exploration and evaluation of OLAF's work, because they have experience to help the work of the Economic Committee, so that the Committee could put a more thoughtful substance on the table. Imagine, this committee has not been established. So, in the end, that would have been the punch line, but I didn't tell you that somehow this committee didn't start its work. To begin with Mr. Secretary's exposé, there was no such thing as the goals to be achieved, which cannot be agreed with. We also want Europe to be intelligent, of course, and I think that it is also thinking of a digital Europe, be greener, be more social, be carbon-neutral, be a Europe closer to citizens. Among these goals, I think that there is no Hungarian politician who would disagree with this. In fact, we ourselves have said, especially in relation to the municipal elections, that we want the Hungarian cities to be European cities. I told Komlón in Baranya that I wanted Komló to be a small European town. This makes a lot of sense how it becomes comfortable, how it can serve its own population, or just how the sewer cover is, you know, level with the road, and while you don't bite your tongue when you go through it. I think there are more levels to this. We have seen that you have tried to do the same, and let us not be completely unfair that you have not tried to do so. A ministry was set up to do so, but we'll forget it. Lajos Kósa was the minister. It wasn't for long, maybe for three months, for four months, Lajos Kósa was the minister of pole cities, and we called him the minister responsible for the implementation of the promises in Orbán, but the source he received was about HUF 3500 billion or perhaps even more, almost more than the Paks II investment at that moment. Since then, Paks II. It's grown, and the Ministry of Kosa is gone. I say this only to make you feel that in your planning and implementation process, there were such minor detours that, at one point, there was a government agency called the Ministry, Lajos Kósa was appointed head of this Ministry, Minister Kósa was in these development programs. My fellow Member, Csaba Nagy, told me how much trouble the application companies had. May I remind you of the time when John Lazarus nationalized these? [[20.40]] At the time, he was also the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office in the last cycle, they shredded all the tender companies, it could only be a public firm who is a tender company, and only the designated companies can be the tender companies. [[To Dr. Szabolcs Imre Agostházy:]] The Secretary of State is closing his eyebrows because he failed, but that was his intention in this respect. Of course, we would also like to see how the county development plans and, indeed, how integrated urban development strategies with cities are formed and reflected, if we could see how they are formed and reflected in the possibility of access to European Union funds, we would be happy to see this. Because what we see is, unfortunately, not that there has been any change in the system, that cities and settlements are not seeking what they want to achieve, but that they are applying for what they are applying for, and then they are trying to turn something into something to benefit the city by starting an energy renovation, and then it became a business development incubator centre, because, well, it was possible to apply for energy renovation, even in the integrated urban development strategy, and even the county approved this, and it was also included in the need to transform the city's rust zones into a home example. And this, you know, creates a lot of debate, and that's why there are debates about how, of course, people find it difficult to develop, especially when European Union developments, as money is coming to the country and money is coming to the settlements, but we have to say a lot of times that these are often dreams and dreams poured into concrete, dreams of someone, not of city dwellers, of the city manager. And we don't know that that's how the city's wealth grows, that's just one thing, but let's just say, its ability to preserve the population, its ability to keep tax, its ability to tax, to continue to develop and live in order to become European cities. I think that these are the important points that should have been debated longer, but, well, I have already seen that this debate will be once again about what was in 2005, 15 years ago, and 2004, and that was a long time ago, how they were then and to give us a figure. I think that if we had heard from you this debate day is important, too, we have heard from Nacsa Lőrinc that this debate day is important; otherwise, you could have initiated it, and you could have even supported it, that if this debate day was important, then it should not have been used for this, but obviously if you have used it, then we will also take the opportunity to say what our opinion is. Yes, we have experience, which is now far more than we have any illusion left. Many of us were burned when the county representatives had access to the development resources of the settlements, counties or even the county settlements, Mr. Secretary of State, by going into the county hall, by having them sign a non-disclosure statement, and then put 2400 pages in front of them, and they said that they had four hours to review this transparency you provided, the transparency that ensures that these funds were put in the right places. Let us not talk about the fact that the design offices talked about, three or four months earlier, but already six months earlier, that, children, we cannot plan a family house, because we have to work in advance, because the calls for proposals are coming; even though they do not know what is in the invitation to tender yet, they are planning to do so. Well, how can that happen, Mr. Secretary? I think that transparency has certainly been a problem in this regard. It's worth changing. I have a lot of memories, also from the past, that were about, say, when we asked the then Minister for Development Miklós Seszták about public procurement, how there was five startups for European Union funds, five companies that were set up in his city, all five won, so I had to settle for the answer that he had noticed this problem, there is already a solution in his head, and he will soon come forward with it, here, to Parliament. That's all we got. Forints 60 million were distributed to five companies. Of course, it is time to review public procurement, review transparency at everyday level, when the designer does not know half a year before what he will have to plan for, when cities will not have to apply for what they are applying for, but for what is actually included in the urban development strategy. And then they don't have to play tricks either, the resources are available, they're eligible, and then maybe we won't even have to involve György Simonka in the committee of inquiry that will be watching OLAF reports. I think that if we start on this road, it won't be a faulty road. Everyone agrees with the goals, of course, but don't do it the way we've done it before, and then eventually it'll just be a stadium. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-03-22-286	Thank you. Next up is Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-287	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Csaba Nagy summarized very well where we started and how much we could translate into the countryside; and it is also clear how much we think differently with my fellow Member László Szakács, because he said that if I quote correctly that the settlements should adapt to the applications, and I note that whether we are looking at the modern cities, or whether we are looking at the Hungarian village programme, then we can see that the government has finally brought real answers to the real questions, because the program of the modern cities is exactly the program where the government is implementing those programs by listening to the city leadership. For example, if we look at Veszprém now, this is the sport pool we have been waiting for for a long time, such as the gymnast, but I could mention the industrial park here or the new valley bridge, so they really do answer real questions. But if we look at small settlements, in my constituency all 24 settlements outside the town of Veszprém with county rights were involved in the Hungarian village programme, there were a total of 49 successful tenders, plus civil society organisations, plus the tender of roads. If they hadn't been applications that were needed, they wouldn't have won so many. But this is also a rural development programme that I think we can be very proud of, and we can be proud of together, because in the program of the Hungarian village, kindergartens, medical clinics, community squares, church institutions have been renewed, and we can even say that local NGOs have finally reached an opportunity that they have been waiting for for for a long time. If you look at the number of successful tenders in the regional and local development operational programme, you can say that Veszprém County's 1st constituency was also very well managed. To say a few settlements: In Bándon we could make a tourist development of it; in Csetény we created an industrial park, where a multinational company came out, to a village of 2500 people, Balluff-Elektronika Kft.; but there was health house development, precipitation water drainage; that if we look at Herend, it is a green city project, a bicycle route connecting parts of the city, a complex program to help the Herend-Bany settlement catch up; a bicycle route between Királyszentistván and Litér; so the primary school in Kislőd is all the programs that really need. And I think that in these settlements we have been able to implement such programmes and applications in all 24 settlements. The city of Veszprém has also renewed crèches, medical clinics and kindergartens from the regional development operational programme, which we have been waiting for for for a long time. So I think that what my fellow left-wing Members have asked me a lot of times as a question where the money is, the answer is that it is in these improvements, and this has made our region rich. I think that if we can take advantage of the opportunities so well in the next cycle, then I am sure of success, and I am particularly pleased that Dr. Tibor Navracsics has been appointed the government commissioner responsible for the complex development of the Economic Development Zone in Northwest Hungary, so Veszprém and its region will receive special attention. I wish everyone good luck with that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.50]]
u2021-03-22-288	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr. Balázs Rákossy, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-289	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would also like to start with what my colleague Ágostházy said in his speech that if we had not held several political debates on EU funds between 14 and 20 in the past period of government, I would also think that today's debate has little added value than political cuts. This is partly due to the fact that on the one hand there are deliberate slippages from the opposition side, and on the other hand, the comments that have been made here in the last 3-4 hours are often uninformed. I think, from the lessons learned from the debates four years ago, it is worth stepping back and very calmly looking at how this institutional system works, what lessons there are and what results we have achieved in the past. On this debate day, I would also like to say that it was interesting for me that the opposition has not been interested in EU funds in recent years. [[Attila Mesterházy: Ah!]] because we have not received a request for such a debate day, or a proposal until now. I am pleased to return to this practice, which we continued between 14 and 18 [[Noise from the benches of opposition representatives.]] It is also important for us to have operational programmes that take place with more or less consensus and taking account of results. In the current period, between 2014 and 20, Hungary had about HUF 12,000 billion available to use it as EU funds, during the period that started now, if not in scale, but in any event a major amount of HUF 18 000 billion is available. In particular, it is important to highlight from the experience of the previous period what we are preparing for and what programmes will be in the next period. It has already been said in a number of speeches that between 2014 and 2018 the EU institutional system has been fundamentally revised, and I would note in parentheses that, in addition to the many advantages of EU funds, there is a very big disadvantage, namely that it works in a highly tied way. I would not refer here to irregularities and abuses, but to what may have been said in the last speech, Mr Cook, that they are not able to develop what they want locally. We can issue applications that are made possible by EU rules. I would like to return to the use of TOP resources, that, in the spirit of decentralisation and subsidiarity, we have delegated every decision in place over the last seven years, so that the government does not have to decide whether to build an industrial park, a small viewer or anything else on the ground. So this is the responsibility of local policy, the role and responsibility of local general meetings, the role and responsibility of local political leadership, what the European Union is doing with money, what it is developing. In relation to what has been said, I would like to talk about two major operational programmes, given the fact that they have developed development goals that will be important areas of Hungarian development policy not only between 14 and 20, but also between 21 and 27. But allow me to respond to some of the statements that have been made in songvorts. One is the question of irregularities. I have already made reference to the fact that European Union funds are funds that are very diversely regulated by the European Union, the European Commission. It is often difficult to use these resources for purposes which are in fact in the interest of the beneficiaries. Therefore, all innovative ideas and innovations should often be used in order, as has already been said, to make use of these resources, for example, for family policy. Let's not be blindfolded. Abuse of money alone in dictatorships is not everyday practice. Where lawyers and trained professionals apply, or out of unpreparedness or willfulness there is indeed space and opportunity to abuse. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that precisely because we are talking about European Union funds, we are talking about different institutions, OLAF, the European Commission, we are very strict in monitoring these resources, and we are very meticulous in regulating these proposals. This is why, in many cases, these applications are not tender-friendly, they are coded and organised with safeguards that, in order to avoid abuse of these resources, sometimes cause difficulties for users. However, where there has been deliberate abuse of these resources over the past period, either OLAF or the Hungarian authorities have taken the necessary steps to ensure that crimes are subsequently re-enforced. In terms of results, it is important to see that Hungary has improved significantly in all economic indicators over the last ten years. All I have to say is that unemployment has fallen from above 10% in 2010 to 3.5 percent in the period prior to Covid, the 50 percent employment rate has been increased to 70-71-72 percent of the population before Covid, and our economic growth over the past period has often doubled the average growth in the European Union until early 2020. If you remember, we had a quarter, but we also had a total economic year where economic growth reached 5 per cent of GDP, and otherwise 4 to 4.5 per cent of economic growth in recent years was an average economic growth, which is exactly 2 times the average economic growth in the European Union of 1.8 to 2 per cent. It is enough to point out that, thanks to the operation and development of the economy, the minimum wage and the average Hungarian wage have increased significantly in recent years. In recent years, an average Hungarian household was able to bring home almost an extra monthly income a year, and this was also the result of the start-up of the Hungarian economy's engine. All I need to do is remind you of the level of public debt, which, after the change of government in 2010, reached about 80% of the total Hungarian economic product, and this was reduced to below 70% in the period before the Covid crisis. Let me remind you of the scale of the shortage. When the civilian government came to government in 2010, the country was under an overdeficit procedure, which means that one of the Maastricht criteria, the 3-percent deficit, could not be met. This failure has existed from 1 May 2004, i.e. from Hungary's accession to the European Union, thanks to socialist governments. Due to Hungary's economic performance in May 2013, the amount of deficit has been kept below 3 per cent in recent years, and this has contributed to the fact that the perception of the Hungarian economy in the eyes of large credit institutions, international rating agencies, represented a very different dimension than before. May I remind you that in 2010 the Hungarian government had to repay more than EUR 20 billion in loans to re-establish the economy. This EUR 20 billion loan was due to the fact that the Social Liberal Government wanted to solve the 2008 global economic crisis not on its own, but on borrowing. [[21.00]] Here it is enough to confront the current Covid crisis management, where the government has not dealt with this crisis with foreign borrowing, but has dealt with the effects of the Covid crisis with its own instruments, its reserves of economic growth in recent years. And then allow me to point out that support for multinational companies and the financial sector may be a little more nuanced, as I would remind you that, after the change in government in 2010, the government has imposed a special tax on certain sectors, precisely to put the common burden in a new dimension. Hungarian financial institutions and credit institutions continue to pay these special taxes together with other industries, including energy and retail sectors, and contribute much more than before 2010 to a sustainable path for the Hungarian economy. The Hungarian economic policy supports multinational companies against small and medium-sized enterprises has been mentioned here in opposition. The reason is clear: multinational companies also contribute to the growth of the Hungarian economy. It is important to note here that multinational companies are, in principle, excluded from EU funding, so it is important to encourage them in order to maintain the investment interests of multinational companies. Each multinational company aid mentioned here was made subject to an investment commitment, so we did not give the aid to multinational companies as free money, but in order to make additional investments in Hungary in return for a certain percentage of the aid. A number of aspects of the Public Procurement Act were also discussed. I admit that the Public Procurement Act is no good. I really haven't seen a good public procurement law, by the way. [[Mrs. Potochanya Anita Kőrösi intervenes.]] Unfortunately, going back over the last 15 years, it can be pointed out that most of the services and purchases purchased under the Public Procurement Act are more expensive than if we did otherwise not do so under the Public Procurement Act, but I would like to draw the attention of honourable Members to the fact that the current Public Procurement Act took place in 2016 by dissuadeing and proposing the European Commission. So in the state in which the Public Procurement Act is now in, it was because the European Commission forced us to do so in 2016. The fact that there are single-playing procurement procedures and the number in which Brussels is responsible. So I fully support changing this public procurement law in the coming years. I can also see for the two or three operational programmes that I am supervising that the public procurement law currently in force is an obstacle: an obstacle to applicants, an obstacle to the managing authority, an obstacle to everyone. I am pleased to be involved in this recast and to draw your attention to the fact that this was a bad decision that was imposed on us in 2016. Several cases of loan and non-refundable contribution rates were raised in the speeches in relation to the MFF and the RRF. Here I feel a bit of disrepair in the opposition speakers' speech, because in some respects we have been criticised for too much credit to be taken up, and in other cases opposition representatives have reprimanded why we do not use a particular credit facility, where appropriate, with the SURE's options. In the RRF there is a large amount of credit available to Hungary. I believe that this is a joint decision on whether Hungary is indebted in the long term or whether we raise the possibility of indebtedness; I am pleased that opposition representatives are also expressing themselves and expressing their views on this. Before I turn to the two operational programmes in which I would like to show where some of the money is and where it is, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we are talking about HUF 18 000 billion of EU funds in the RRF and MFF framework, which is a huge amount of money, but I do not want to ignore the fact that the annual amount of the Hungarian budget is HUF 40,000 billion. If we project this HUF 18 000 billion for seven years outside the RRF, then it is important to say that EU funds are very important, it is good that we receive such funds, but otherwise a significant part of the investment is made in the Hungarian economy and a significant part of the development is made from budgetary sources. So the results that I have listed in the macro indicators over the past period are partly due to EU funds, but in large part to the smart and reserveing and sustainable spending of budgetary resources. As I have already pointed out, the period 2014-2020 was a major change compared to the previous development period 2007-2013. On the one hand, we have changed significantly in the new system and process, just to make it more candidate-friendly, easier, faster to use these resources, and in the institutional system we have abolished the NFÜ, the National Development Agency, which, by the way, was a serious starting point for abuse during that period. We have moved to a more professionally well-founded institutional administration where the managing authorities have been assigned to the ministries and, for each managing authority or operational programme, we have designated a policy officer in one of the other areas of the government in order to require much closer cooperation from government bodies on the use and content of development funds, so the content of these operational programmes should be much more professional and well-founded from 2014 onwards than before. It was an important development in the period 2014 and what has already been said to me is that between 2014 and 2020, 60% of the available resources have been spent on economic development, and, moreover, this use of resources is also for the next period, i.e. from 2021 onwards. This 60 percent use of resources meant that most of the money should be spent on financing small and medium-sized enterprises, economic development, job creation, employment growth, reindustrialisation of the Hungarian economy and increasing the export capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises. The result now is that the indicators of the Hungarian economy have changed in terms of the indicators I have quoted over the past period as they have changed. To conclude, I would like to mention to you that European Union funds have also been used in economic protection and in the fight against the Covid virus. In the operational programme for economic development and innovation, we made available HUF 340 billion of funds in the course of a few months from the spring of 2020 in order to provide wage support for companies in difficulty, support technological renewals and support the restoration of their liquidity. In the framework of this, four applications have been launched since the spring of last year, and in recent weeks another instrument has been launched to protect the economy: this is also the interest-free reboot loan within the framework of GINOP, which makes a highly discounted loan of HUF 100 billion available to businesses for HUF 1-10 million. I would like to finish here, and perhaps I would like to mention a few more results later, but I would like to note that it is worth judging these programmes on the basis of objectivity and professionalism in terms of EU funds. [[21.10]] It is important that it is precisely because the programmes are implemented locally, in local economies, in rural Hungary, and therefore, as far as possible, there should be at least a consensus between the political forces in the principles of their use, and this consensus should be sustainable in the next period, 2021-27. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-290	Once again, after Mr Secretary of State, I address Attila Steiner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology.
u2021-03-22-291	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, One of the most important priorities in the next seven-year EU budget and the recovery fund is the mobilisation of green economy resources and the greening of industry within the energy component. In this connection, let me highlight a few points, in particular, that, apart from a few specific comments in the debate, there has not been a mention of this. When we talk about the development of the green economy and the greening of energy, Hungary starts with very good foundations, because if we look at the main indicators, which the European Union is paying attention to, our CO2 emissions have decreased by 33 percent compared to the reference year 1990. If we look at this result in an international comparison, in an EU comparison, we can say that we are one third of the Member States, because there are many Member States that have not only reduced their emissions since 1990 but also increased them. There are large Member States in this, and there are green Member States such as Spain, Portugal and Austria. In addition, it is an important advantage for us, and it provides a good basis for us to draw the EU funds well and not only to talk about our commitment, but also in the summer of 2020. There have been few Member States that have also set out in law that they want to achieve the climate neutrality target at Member State level by 2050. So I think that this is a very good basis for us to be able to apply these EU funds effectively in the coming period. In view of this, I understand in part the frustration of some Members, because we will make exactly the investments that opposition representatives have always called for from us. In the field of energy, what investments will we use these resources for? I think we need to achieve a threefold goal. When we are talking about sustainability and we want to build a sustainable energy system, we also need to ensure, in addition to sustainability, security of supply and affordable prices have a very, very important role to play. I believe that there are already examples internationally where, if we take into account only one aspect and ignore the other two, there can be very bad consequences and side effects, for example, the price of electricity for the population can rise very much, and we can also cause security of supply problems. So when we talk about planning, we basically keep this threefold approach in mind all the time. In view of this, one of our most important principles in planning is to try to mobilise as many resources as possible to ensure the spread of renewable energies. Here in the climate and nature conservation action plan, the government has undertaken to triple the current solar power plant capacity by 2030, and we will install 6 thousand megawatts of solar power capacity by 2030. Therefore, solar parks and the support system for residential solar cells are a very important element of the recovery plans. However, as I said, security of supply aspects must be taken into account at all times, so we would like not only to install solar panels, but also to mobilise significant resources to develop the electricity grid needed to do so, so that we can ensure that we do not face unexpected security of supply challenges in the event of a changed production structure. In addition, we would like to go further with our green bus project. Travelling people have already met green buses in several county seats. Here we started with a month of demonstration projects, but our goal is to have every second bus electric bus in rural cities within ten years. This is the program we'd like to carry on. To sum up, I would like to emphasise once again that we want a Hungary, an energy sector in Hungary where security of supply, sustainability and affordable energy prices are ensured. In the case of security of supply, we consider it very important that the capacity of the Paks nuclear power plant is maintained in the long term and that we also significantly increase the uptake of renewable energy sources. We would like to mobilise EU funds for this. We would like to increase our cross-border capacities significantly; Hungary is already on the right track here, one of the most cross-border capacities in the region. We would also like to upgrade the domestic electricity grid itself to such a level that it is able to accept this huge amount of renewable, volatile renewable energy production. Taking into account sustainability considerations, it will be important to reach 6,000 megawatts of solar power capacity. We would also like to see a greening in district heating and the dissemination of renewable energy sources in district heating; here we also have a key role to play in geothermal. Also, when we talk about affordability, we would like to provide 700 thousand smart meters from the EU recovery fund for the population, and we would like to provide the most vulnerable layers with a tender facility in which very large subsidies can be used for the installation of solar panels and for the modernisation of heating. In short, that is all I wanted to say about our plans for the energy component, and I would ask for the support of the honourable Members and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-292	Thank you. I now address Congressman Péter Ungár of the LMP. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-293	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, We all remember the time before the coronal virus outbreak when the Fidesz turned green. This had such interesting branches, for example, when the Christian Democratic People's Party joined the plastic-free July in August, but there were also reports of how much and what kind of money they would spend in Hungary for a green turnaround. Now that a significant part of this has not been achieved because there is an economic crisis that is caused by the coronal virus epidemic, it is understandable and, to say the truth, this is not the case. Rather, it concerns the fact that there are a lot of EU policies where the government would not at least give us the opportunity to turn green in Europe, but to act against it. Perhaps the most critical example of this is the European common agricultural policy, the common European agricultural policy, in which, although Fidesz has since left the European People's Party with such a long soap opera-like relationship, it is an ally to the European Union's leadership that no green light is possible in European agriculture. The European common agricultural policy is perhaps one of the largest policies of the European Union's budget, and there will also be a great deal of resources in terms of development resources, which will be a major part or a decisive part of the agricultural policy. There have been a lot of proposals in the common agricultural policy that would have linked these payments to the green light. There was no proposal in this respect that any existing Fidesz MEP would have supported, or would have been supported, by faction discipline. Here's the thing. Currently, in Hungary, the agricultural policy subsidies paid were around HUF 800 billion in 2019, 80% of those who were entitled to it will be paid 10 percent. This is perhaps one of the most uneven forms of EU support there is. [[21.20]] In addition, this agricultural policy is a serious problem compared to the fight against climate change because there is a chemical agricultural policy in these areas, using chemical products that are fundamentally harmful to Hungarian nature. And here, let me say a half-phrase that the Fidesz and the Orbán government may have been the last of the Mohicans in order to partially ban glyphosate at European Union level, partly to ban other harmful chemicals that are highly polluting, for example, soil water or contribute to climate change in other ways. So it is very nice that Minister István Nagy has now installed a swallow nest on the Agricultural Ministry, and he has also installed a beehouse earlier, which are very nice, symbolic steps. Perhaps we should fight for the ban on glyphosate and continue to fight for freedom along with nice, symbolic steps. In the common European agricultural policy, European greens, among other things, were the proposal to integrate water retention agriculture and related aspects into the common agricultural policy. We assumed that if the President of the Republic had already tried to draw attention to the need for water and the need for water management in podcasts and other modern ways, he might have been able to support it. Obviously, this did not happen. The fact is that the common agricultural policy is good for people who, by the way, do not employ many people, who produce non-competitive agricultural products and who are considered to be pollutants within Hungary. The fact that the polluters pay what Viktor Orbán said at his announcement when he found out that Fidesz-KDNP would be green, instead, in the common agricultural policy, there is a principle that Fidesz and the European Union pay the polluters. The fact is that all the proposals on this matter, not only from the green faction, but also from others, have fallen into deaf ears, and in this Fidesz is a wonderful ally of the European Union's leadership, who, partly because of the interests of the French state and partly because of other reasons, are very much in favour of this agricultural policy. However, the common agricultural policy is also not sustainable in terms of the fact that people working in agriculture in Hungary are growing older. These statistics can be found even on the Hungarian Agricultural Ministry's side, so this is not part of some opposition conspiracy. Moreover, the common agricultural policy is a policy that will never bring us closer to food self-determination in Hungary. When I first became an activist of the May Other Party of Politics in 2010, one of our slogans was that we could be Hungarian in a store paradise, and we didn't get any closer during ten years of Fidesz government. Even though István Nagy announced today that we are going to declare a fight against Lidl and Auchan, you have proclaimed this fight mostly by giving tax incentives to these companies, or by refusing to support any policy that would have served as a food self-determination in Hungary. And then I'd bring one more thing in here. While we are talking about this, and while often arguing against globalisation, all the fidesz media and fidesz politicians, intellectuals, are preparing to support the free trade agreement between the European Union and South America, a convention that will increase agricultural exports to Europe in South America, and that will again push Hungarian agricultural products out of their own market. And they will do so by saying that, by the way, you are the enemies of globalisation, when you support all these pro-global, free trade agreements, because you have always been neoliberal, and you are on the side of free trade, and those who are in favour of free trade cannot really fight climate change. However, the local aspect is very effective in such a development policy. The word subsidiarity, which I have been able to say in an interesting way, has often been said by the Secretary of State in his exposé. The thing is, the subsidia... this is the second time I haven't been able to... [[Defiance.]] So the fact is that, at the same time, it is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, that when opposition government leaders campaigned to draw EU funds on purpose, you have set this up as some kind of conspiracy by traitors of the nation, when the principle that I am not going to say now would mean that you would be able to do exactly that. For example, the Municipality of Szombathely County has also proposed a 10-year economic development plan to show that it is thinking not only until the next elections when it intends to spend EU funds, but also to create a scientific and technical industrial park, so that not only commuting or existing industrial facilities would represent the city and the region's basic ability to maintain a job, and that is why a vocational training centre would be created. And once we get back to water day, rainwater, and to increase the number of green surfaces, it is also important because if we are serious about green policy, then we need to start at the same time as anti-free trade, and we need to do the same thing with water protection. So we would ask you, if you're serious, or if you've ever had a moment like this, that you were serious about the green light that was once declared after an internal measurement, then you shouldn't deviate from the principles that were formulated there at least. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2021-03-22-294	Thank you. I will conclude that when Congressman Ungar speaks to the microphone, the background noises have been silenced. This time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Mr Bence Tordai, Head of Group, has informed me that the Group of Dialogue will hand over the remainder of the time frame set for the political debate, i.e. 26 minutes 49 seconds for the benefit of the MSZP Group. I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I will start by saying that the money we are discussing is an historic opportunity for Hungary. So far, we've got two Marshall aids, and we haven't been able to use them for meaningful purposes. Just now, the Secretary of State complained that we weren't interested enough in these funds. Well, I assure you, we've been very interested. Unfortunately, there were those who were more interested in us, called Lőrinc Mészáros, and his interest continues to this day; and as long as he is interested in these funds, it will not be used for the benefit of Hungarian people. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that OLAF's recent report has also shown that the Hungarian government, in particular, has been the biggest fraud of EU funds in the EU. Between 2015 and 2019, the financial penalty was 3.93 percent of all EU catch-up and agricultural subsidies that came to Hungary, and this is, in particular, 10 times the EU average, and otherwise the largest of all Member States. So, sew on this, please, a button, because I think these numbers speak for themselves. And by the way, I'd like to focus this money on two aspects. On the one hand, this money would be capable of finally creating a situation for Hungary for the Hungarian people to break out of the poverty trap, the pay trap and the assembly plant trap, into which the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian workers were completely involved during the Fidesz-KDNP. Perhaps I do not need to stress more than necessary the state of Hungarian education and the state of Hungarian health here in the middle of the pandemic. Terriblely tragic data have come from our fellow citizens, and if you had put these funds into health care and education over the last ten years, then Hungarian workers would have been prepared to produce higher added value jobs and not to be such a downward spiral, but rather a place in which well-educated Hungarian workers could work for better earnings. You chose the other way. This is our chance to turn this around. The other is the up-and-coming and short-sighted economic operation, which is neither sustainable nor safe for the future. I'm starting to see that post-pest recovery simply can't go according to the previous scenario. They have supported the fossil energy industry, the polluting large companies, without necks, and they are simply not using the crisis to go green. I reviewed the energy part of the recovery plan, and it is a terrible disappointment, as at present, that if 40 percent emission reductions are undertaken by 2030, this means that in the next ten years there will be virtually nothing going to happen, except that after the Hungarian taxpayers from Lőrinc Mészáros bought the broken-down Mátra Power Plant from the Mészáros Lőrincs, they will stop it, turn it into a natural gas fire, and then the next generations will have to reduce emissions almost eight times as much after 2030 as we would have had the opportunity in the 2020s. I don't want to leave a legacy like that for our children. This is very, very important. And I would very much ask you to stop referring to the fact that the socialist heavy industry has collapsed, and then, with the results achieved there, we have practically checked out the climate protection efforts. By 2050, Hungary will be climate neutral. [[21.30]] From now on, in the next period, that must be our goal, not that you, with the debt of a past system, are trying to check your duties. The nuclear-day-gas scenario, which was placed on their flag in consultation with no one, practically banned wind power. I really don't understand how you imagine the energy system in which a massive nuclear power plant with huge capacity is operating together with a decentralised system. There's a few of us who can't see this. But Paks II. For you, it's just a corruption project, but for the more dangerous kind. And it is terribly lacking in the recovery plan and in the draft operational programmes that Hungarian houses and apartments must be isolated. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Not isolate it, seal it. In 2010, they promised, we're in 2021, and they still haven't done it. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-22-296	Thank you. Now we have two-minute comments. I give the floor first to Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-297	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I feel a little bit like this is some kind of desperate miracle tonight. I'd be desperate to believe that what you're talking about is a strict professional issue. You desperately want to believe that your bosses are honest people. And your bosses desperately believe they won't fail. But this miracle only exists in fairy tales. We know very well that we are not talking about strict professional issues, but we are actually talking about a category of law and even criminal law. You're aware of that. I'm aware of that. I'm aware of that. I'm aware of that. It's not easy for any of us. This story will have a terrible end, and the problem is that the consequences of this story will be shared by the Hungarian people. We know very well that when State Secretary Steiner talks about wanting a Hungary where the security of the energy sector is given, I would like a Hungary not to wake up to the fact that Lőrinc Mészáros suddenly buys half the gas network in Hungary. I would like a Hungary, otherwise, where the professional question is how small businesses can develop and how they receive EU funds, but what I see as Debrecen is that most of the small businesses in Debrecen don't even start public procurement where well-known companies in Debrecen, linked to Fidesz, start up because they lose everywhere. What I see is that Lajos Kósa has now announced the MotoGP course of Hajdúnánás, that the same designer has won the design of the MotoGP course, who has won the beach bath of Aquaticum, the Stadium of Nagyerde, the International School of Debrecen, the Dósa Rádor Square, the university innovation center, the planning of the Forest Offices office building built by the municipality, and God knows how many things. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is gonna end terribly. Now everyone thinks [[The president's ringing again.]] I don't think he's gonna get away with this. They're not gonna get away with it.
u2021-03-22-298	My fellow Members, please respect the time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-299	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The reason why today's debate made sense was that we were able to meet three State Secretarys here in Parliament, who have not come here very much. Probably, if you were to come into Parliament more, then you would also know that the proposals you have missed will be made on a number of occasions in the Hungarian Parliament. So I suggest that you try to talk to your minister to allow yourself to come into the Hungarian Parliament several times, to know what is going on here, what work and what proposals are being made by opposition representatives. They did not talk much about one issue, and if we are talking about EU development resources over such a long period of time, then none of their results were addressed by any contributors, either from Fidesz, KDNP or from the government, and this is that we have made Hungary the most corrupt country in the European Union with a decade of work and serious efforts. In 2010, we were ranked number nine, in 2020, according to analyses, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary is in the last place in the dead, or, if I say the other way around, the first place is that we are the most corrupt country. I think that when the Secretary of State spoke here about the transformation of the system and that the NFÜ was one of the starting points for various problems or, where appropriate, corruption events or other conflicts, then it seems that the new system has not been able to improve so much as to prevent these problems. So if we're hearing such a success scenario and you've accused us of slipping and misinformed, and we actually don't have any information, then I would also like to add that you haven't practiced too much self-criticism. That's why I thought we'd give you the time you need. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Or, in the close of the Secretary of State, if you'd like to talk a little bit about this post of corruption [[The president's ringing again.]] How we managed to achieve this with such hard work would be helpful. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience, although if we are here for so long, it is worth a few seconds. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-300	That's right. I was pretty generous with those two minutes. Congressman Erik Bánki has the floor, the congressman of Fidesz. Here you go, two minutes.
u2021-03-22-301	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, on two points. In one of his comments, he said that two Marshall aid funds were not well spent in Hungary. To my fellow Member, who is not in the Chamber, who seems no longer curious, I would like to say that he is arguing not only with us, but also with the leader of Europe's strongest country, the largest EU contributors, and also the country that represents the strongest industry, Angela Merkel, because Angela Merkel literally said that Hungary is making good use of EU funds, making smart investments and pursuing smart economic policy. Overall, he uses these funds to improve people's well-being. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that more support for what we have done well with European Union money in the past is not necessary. And one more point concerning OLAF investigations. He said that OLAF found it inappropriate to use 3.9 percent of the resources and therefore initiated proceedings. I would also like to draw the Member's attention from a distance to the fact that it is better for her to turn to her coalition partners or turn to her future coalition partner, the left-wing politicians, since 75 percent of this 3.9 percent, three-quarters of which is the use of money linked to metro four. What you have already mentioned, Mr Secretary of State and many of you in today's debate, this is the 160 billion forints that have disappeared, so far there is no sign of him. So, Bernadett Szél, I suggest that you take an interest in OLAF matters among the left-wing politicians. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-22-302	Thank you. Congressman Zoltán Balczó has the floor, the representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Getting ready for this debate day, I wanted to come clean with the numbers for the first time. I got a very nice colorful document from government sources, there is a euro in it, and we were talking about forints here, so let's make it clear. The amount of HUF 15 000 billion, the multiannual financial framework, and the one from Next Generation that is jointly responsible and can be recovered, which is included as a grant in this table, and there is HUF 3500 billion, which is listed here separately, as Hungary will, if it wants to, take on, but it must be self-reliance, this loans. Now, you're always talking about 18 500 billion, which means that for me the decision has been made, and that means that Hungary wants to take this credit line in its entirety, according to the government. It is the EU that needs to be ratified here. The ratification is obviously done by representatives, the government has great influence, but there are parties behind it. On the 14th of July, the president of the Fidesz national electoral board said: "I consider the EU instrument "Next Generation," in Hungarian, the, the next Generation European Union, as a cynical expression that the check that some people have accumulated here, and then our children, the generation of our children, will pay for it for 30 years. Tell the president of the Fidesz election about this. So I ask why we are still late with this ratification, and whether this guaranteed it when I read this quote here. And I'll tell you again, you're talking about 18 500 billion, which means it's like you've decided to take it in full. Thank you. [[21.40]]
u2021-03-22-304	Thank you. We will continue with the groups of speakers that have been announced. I give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-305	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, It was rather strange to listen from the government side to the arguments and to the appeal why the opposition had not been interested in using EU funds so far. This is absurd, because from week to week, a significant part of our speeches to Parliament, our interpellations and our immediate questions are just asking the question of how effective and according to the public good's perspective these resources have been spent. Besides, why did we have to initiate this debate day anyway? So there we are talking about 12 000 billion in the previous budget cycle, and now we may be talking about up to 18 500 billion, which is a fairly visible scale, and it might be worth it to have a motion from the government from time to time in the framework of such a debate, and we can discuss these matters. I'd like to narrow this down to a little bit of agrarian right now. As a price for our accession to the European Union, we have abandoned virtually a lot of the instruments related to our agriculture, the situation in which it is able to influence it, and to what extent a nation state knows what happens in its productive areas, what happens in its rural regions. These waivers are divided into opinions, who feel many, who feel few when we have handed over our market, when we have greatly limited national powers. But we agreed that there were some advantages. Such advantages were those subsidies that appeared on an unprecedented scale and to an extent in the Hungarian agriculture. What have you been using this vast amount of resources, all these opportunities, to do since this is what we need to talk about, how successful these programmes have been, these policies. And I think it's worth determining success by looking at the purpose of the programme and achieving it. Was the purpose of these resources to achieve that less than 3 percent of farmers today dominate two thirds of the production area? Could that have been the goal? Or did you say that when you came up with a national rural strategy in 2010, which was also largely about how EU funds in our agriculture are intended to be used and for what purpose? Indeed, this was not the case, but the opposite process was promised, not the big estate being cemented, or even increased in some respects, but that it would be demolished, and that the association of family farmers would give the backbone of the Hungarian countryside and agriculture, as we see in a large part of Western European countries. Who could dare to say that these resources were distributed effectively, and in terms of the common good, who would dare to say that 10 percent of farmers are taking over four fifths of the resources? The opposite process was promised here in 2010 to reverse trends, and it will be exactly the opposite of what happened. Did the gap between rural and urban areas decrease after spending this HUF 12,000 billion? These are rhetorical questions, since they didn't decrease. The extent of rural migration has not decreased at all, and this trend has not changed. As we can go through certain sectors of agriculture one by one, unfortunately I cannot do this now, obviously, in the absence of a time frame, but if we mention just a few examples, I think it will be clear what I want to talk about here. So we have spent 12,000 billion, and today we are saying that berries have practically disappeared from Hungary, that traditional vegetables such as onions, peppers, this country needs to be imported, or to mention anything else, we are now witnessing a huge reduction in the area of fruit too, unfortunately. Indeed, these resources have not been properly spent in the livestock sector, at least not one farm animal whose market, of which the number of animals would have increased substantially, can be classified for a long time, which has decreased radically, and is true for virtually all of our livestock other than poultry. Thus, in the livestock sector, these resources could not be spent by farmers in accordance with their interests. Has this made our agriculture more modern and competitive? Well, we don't have any good news here either. I know you don't like to be exemplary with the past, but I'm afraid I have to say that our agriculture was more competitive and more efficient in the cursed than in the Western, and the scissors have only continued to grow here. Well, it would be a lot of work, and it would be a useful area for us to spend this vast amount of money on. We have already talked about food self-determination, and there would also be a lot of work to be done by Hungary, because I think everyone agrees that if there could be a way out for this nation, if there could be a priority that could be important for the national economy beyond the parties and beyond governments, the point is food, because we believe that high-quality, GMO-free, highly processed food can, for example, be a trademark of Hungary that can be sustainable on the European and perhaps later on the world market. I hoped that these would be discussed today by the government, and I hope that we will be able to spend the next budget cycle for such purposes once a decent government has been set up. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-03-22-306	Thank you. The word now belongs to Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-307	Thank you very much. Fellow Members! Dear House, I may, in a strange way, want to comment on the matters that have already been presented here in the preparatory documents as a different priority. In particular, I would like to deal with the three priority axis, which deals with the development of social inclusion, and with the four, social development, for a few reasons. Dear House, It could be perfectly agreed with this programme if it had been sent to a social debate where civil society organisations, professional organisations, opposition parliamentary representatives could have expressed their views. If we hadn't initiated this debate day, no one would have been able to give their opinion here in the first place. The other is that time is terribly tight, because I think it's until April 31st. the government must put this programme on the table, i.e. on the table in Brussels. Of course, from Cette to Cette, you have to meet the expectations that make these terrible resources at all suitable at all, because this is where the amounts of 18 000 billion or more were flown; yes, it is a Marshall aid or an extra Marshall aid. Well, let's see. In this priority axis, for example, in this operational programme for human resources development, it is here that the chances of public workers being employed in the open labour market are increased. You can totally agree with him. But that's not what the practice shows. In recent years, the whole public employment system has been practically frozen, and there is no real possibility of moving forward due to the very rules that the government has set out here in recent years. The various sociological surveys show that 7-8 percent of the public workers are able to cling back to the open labour market in some way. I am not talking about the fact that, of course, time goes by, because these people are simply unable to work under market conditions to find suitable work for themselves. Looking for a job is also a very hard job, and if there is no digital knowledge, if there is no knowledge of at least the job search on the labour market, then this man will never leave his village in life. By the way, make no mistake. When statistics on 80, 90 and 100,000 employees fly, let us make it clear that a person works two or three months as a public employee, and very few have the opportunity to provide a real livelihood for his family as a public employee. That's one thing. The second is that it says that the training of Roma women in employment is particularly disadvantaged from the point of view of employment. [[21.50]] Okay, we get it. We just hear it every year about some program. There have been countless interpellations here in Parliament, there have been numerous immediate questions, countless speeches before the agenda, and there has been no progress in the last ten years. Social integration of people living in settlement conditions and promotion of measures to improve their housing situation. Nothing's happened in this area, not yet. Every year it is announced practically, in almost every government program, and nothing ever happened in this area. In fact, there is a very serious housing crisis in Hungary, because it can be seen that government policy only supports the upper middle class and investment property purchase and construction, and that the middle class does not have a virtual opportunity to obtain housing or access home. I am not talking about the fact that this government does not have any housing policy, it only wants to support investors, and with this so-called home-building support, it was only possible to achieve that 30-40 percent more of the property's square meter prices today than, say, 2-3 years ago. And obviously, it is also seen in the housing sociology that it is taught that when house prices start to increase to this extent, if they are generated by government policy to increase these prices, then rent prices will also follow the rise in property prices a few months late. In Hungarian, in university centers, a middle-class parent can't almost afford the apartment for his child, because there are no dormitory seats. I am no longer talking about the fact that there is no rent policy, there is no rental housing in Hungary, there is no social housing in Hungary, and even the municipal authorities cannot touch anything else as a result of the withdrawal of funds, only a significant part of their housing stock is sold, so that they can obtain money. In Hungarian, the rental housing stock also decreases year after year. My fellow Members are obviously also filming the analysis of Habitat Hungary every year. Please, you have these quotes, of course, results. The next priority is reducing the poverty of families with children, integrated district children's programmes and other early childhood catching up. With all due respect, my dear friends, this is not what the politics of the previous years has shown. We have a minister for it today, of course. I would like to mention two things to you. In addition to national average earnings, the earnings of families raising two children became one of the lowest in the European Union last year, based on national net average wages statistics. And then the following statement is: the average net wage for singles and childless people has also fallen compared to 2019, which is the fourth lowest in Europe. The third point is that two parents, two children, distributed average wages for an average family, also decreased compared to 2019. So the statistics of the previous two years clarify that there is virtually no money for people to make a living here, and they are not actually getting any help from the government. The way I see it, it's a hit-and-run. I don't know, someone here mentioned that there is a shameful hit-and-run on Hungarian families. Yes, and about Hungarian workers. Minister of State, if they were named to respond to the interpellations or questions of opposition representatives, they would have heard that there is no opposition faction who has not submitted a parliamentary decision or draft law on why you cannot support Hungarian workers when they lose their existence during the Covid epidemic and give at least 80 percent; that in Europe there is the most shameful three-month job search support and hundreds of thousands of people are lost from the supply system. I'd like to point out, here too, that it's a primitive, demagogic lie when they say they don't want to distribute aid. Looking for a job isn't an aid. It is a social security benefit that when you work, you pay contributions and taxes, and your employer pays sochos so that when your employee gets in trouble, the state will help you. It's not aid. If there is money for space exploration, if there is money for the refurbished Buda Castle, if there is a stadium, if there is a hunting exhibition, if there is a horse wellness, then let Hungarian workers have support from our common money! Instead of big capital, small and medium-sized enterprises, workers should be supported! Yes, it has been said several times, this is a cheap neoliberal economic policy, which, with reference to the fact that a significant proportion of EU funds cannot be obtained by multinational companies, is therefore directly supported by the Hungarian government. Yeah, and the profits are being pumped out of the country. Because it's a lie that they're turning the money back into research and development, job creation, technology renewal. Hundreds of billions of people are leaving the country like this. Hundreds of billions! These are the things we should have talked about, fellow Members. Yes, they have supported multinational companies in recent weeks with reference to the epidemic. I've got a Eurostat survey in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] It's been published recently. I printed it out for myself. This figure shows that, please, Hungary is the one that did not support workers in practice. The government's assistance that could have been expected of the Hungarian government is converging almost to zero during the epidemic. And look, this is a neighbouring country in the first place, you know who? Croatia, who joined the European Union ten years after us. Croatia is at the top, Hungary is the last. While one of my better colleagues here has also drawn attention to the extent to which the tax wedge in Hungary is withdrawn. The Hungarian people work an awful lot, an awful lot of people, and they exploit themselves. The Hungarian government had a slave law to respond to the challenges. It was no accident that opposition representatives protested here years ago, and that my fellow Members and I went to Székesfehérvár or Dunaferr for a reason that, yes, we do not pay taxes for years, decades, so that when an employee gets into trouble, he does not get help from the government. It could be, yes, among the priorities is that people with disabilities should be helped to return to the open labour market or to the protected labour market. This afternoon, I addressed an immediate question and question to the government, precisely on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, which was born almost three years ago, that the current legislation should be reviewed in the case of invalids, because the Constitutional Court clearly stated that there was no improvement in the situation of those people, or most of them, whose supply was taken or reduced, and simply because they are transforming the rating system and comparing two ministerial decrees that this man has to be taken away from his monthly allowance, that is illegal. I gave the government five months. I'm sorry, a man of average ability, capable of codification in the apparatus will make such a law in two days. And two years ago, on 31 March, the legislation should have been adopted two years ago. It was not for nothing that we demanded that these funds be used to compensate the tens of thousands of people who had been taken away from care or had been taken out of care. Then the government saved 500 billion forints in the last 8 years on the disabled. I need some of these. Where I live, many people in my narrower Patria, Heves County, for example, where there was a large industry, in Lőrinci, in the vicinity of the power plant, in mining, lost their health, and so they did. I don't have one, not two plaintiffs where their original allowance, hold on, 70 percent of it was taken. He didn't have that much left, they took 70 percent of it! [[22.00]] But I can tell you in the south-heves region, up north of Kiskör, up to Apcig, how many people have been crippled! There's hundreds of them, thousands of them. Fellow Members! Our fellow Member, István Ujhelyi, who had to leave because his plane was leaving for Brussels at dawn, told us exactly what it was about. Social debate, involving civil and other initiatives, proposals, modified, written, should be prepared on 31 April. A clear, coherent, traceable, transparent programme must be submitted to Brussels for everyone. We're partners in this, I hope you are. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-308	Thank you. The word belongs to Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-309	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, We have years ahead of us for the future of our country. In the coming years, we must prepare for fundamental changes and fundamentally transform our economy and society so that we can face the worsening global problems. We need to make our systems sustainable and flexible, otherwise our civilization as we know it will be over. This has already been recognised by the European Union. In the next cycle, we can use larger EU funds than ever before, some HUF 18 500 billion, including more than HUF 5000 billion to support green energy, to create a circular economy, the ecological agricultural transition and other climate and environmental goals. It doesn't matter how much money we spend and how we spend it. With such a resource, very useful improvements can be made, but it is also possible to cause huge destruction with this amount of money, and it is vital that this resource does not serve the enrichment of some people or groups to the detriment of the country's development. So the task is to switch to a more crisis-resistant and sustainable economy. Now the epidemic and its economic effects mask the fact that a much more serious crisis, an ecological and climate crisis, is also taking place. These interwoven crises need to be dealt with at the same time, so it is dilettantism and criminally irresponsible to pour money into the automotive industry, luxury hotels, Chinese railroads, expensive nuclear energy, free fidesz new-rich people. Hungary's economy is extremely open and the share of foreign capital is extremely high, so we are extremely vulnerable to the movements and disturbances of global markets. In the future, there will be an increasing number of these, and therefore, instead of a vulnerable and unsustainable economy, the global market must build a resilient economy, i.e. a resilient and circular economy, i.e. a wasteless economy, i.e. an increase in our economic sovereignty. To help my fellow Members understand, this is based on the localisation of the economy, i.e. the strengthening of small businesses producing essential items for the domestic market. Water, energy, food, cleaning and cleaning products, building materials, means of transport and our main clothing products must be produced at home or within a regional framework, so the economy will be crisis-resistant. EU funds in the economy should also be strengthened in this area. Water is the most important thing. Today is World Water Day, and we see that our living waters are being wasted, and the Fidesz water management plans are also going in the wrong direction with large industrial irrigation. Our water utilities are in a catastrophic state, with some HUF 1500 billion of investment missing. It may be strange, but the first step in our economic development must be to secure our waters, because water is life itself. Allow me to use this speech to respond to the comments made a few hours ago by the Secretary of State of Ágostházy. He raised the rhetorical question we heard in the opposition benches about where the money was, and tried to explain it within his limited limits and opportunities. We can say that it came out very strange how 13th month's pension and EU funds are connected, but I will be generous, and I will let it go. Then where's the money, Mr. Secretary of State? Just a few names: Lőrinc Mészáros, László Szijj, István Garancsi, István Tiborcz, here is the money. Here's the money! And he spoke of excellent cooperation with OLAF, which we know is that OLAF did not publish the report on the Elios case of Tiborcz, and we also found in the case of the Bridge in the world of work that OLAF had not been able to produce the necessary documents at its express request. Is this the excellent cooperation with OLAF? Well, congratulations. The thing is, you're saying there's less indictment in the corruption case at home. Well, as long as Peter Polt is the Attorney General, I'm not surprised. Just give me one example because of the shortness of time: I would like to recommend Péter Juhász's video to his attention, the video in which Mayor Szilárd Nagy tells the story related to the criminal case of István Happy, where he had to pay back 50 percent to the local government in order to obtain development resources. Fifty percent! And what was the reaction of one half of the excellent cooperation, Peter Polt? Technically, he either replaced or transferred the prosecutors involved in the case. I can't stop it, and that's why I can't say it, but I suspect that maybe these prosecutors couldn't be controlled by hand, and that's how they minimized the loss of a scandal that's already freaked out. I think that he will tell us everything about the Fidesz government's policy, he will tell us everything, that in today's debate they have not been able to provide any meaningful information to the House other than what was in 2006. You've been running this country for 11 years now, and you're still setting an example with 2006? We should give an example of what has been solved, but today the fragmentation of society is much greater than this country has ever seen. This country deserves more, better, and in the next EU cycle, let alone we demand, expect, and even from 22 we realise that EU funds will be spent for the benefit of our fellow countrymen living here. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-03-22-310	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Catherine of the Czech Republic, Member of the European Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-22-311	Mr President, Dear House, The European Union is helping Hungary with a historic aid package, but in a functioning democracy, we should not be discussing the recovery plan along a 13-page piece of cheese paper today, but we would see a real and detailed programme, and we could talk, for example, about how badly women have been affected by this crisis in Hungary, as in all parts of the world. Anyone who's been trying to work from home for months with their child, who's lost his job, or who's locked up with his abuser in quarantine at home, I think he knows exactly what I'm talking about. But what help can they expect from the Fidesz government? I'm asking you this because the public plan for the recovery program only once has the word "woman" in the word "women of childbearing age." As a woman of childbearing age, I can tell you that it is ridiculous that this government has so many ideas about half of the country, even though we could change the care sector with hundreds of billions of forints, help the women who lost their jobs, help the victims of domestic violence, and not a single word of this high school-grade paper that the government has presented to us. Dear colleagues, EU money [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is not intended for Lőrinc Mészáros and not for István Tiborcz, this money belongs to all Hungarians, men and women alike. They have to have it all the same, all Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-312	Thank you. For the first time, Mr Secretary of State has asked to speak, I give the floor to Secretary of State Agostházy. Here you go. [[22.10]]
u2021-03-22-313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I am trying to save most of my reaction for the closing, I cannot stop from responding to the speech by Congresswoman Catherine of the Czech Republic. On the one hand, congratulations on the presentation prepared for your Facebook page, which was methodologically well-educated. With regard to your wishes to argue on 13 sides, that is not true, we have put up hundreds of pages of documents, which you mention, a document from last autumn. I suggest you read what you're talking about regularly, and then we have a chance to have a sensible debate. He mentioned several topics on women's topics. Accusing this government of not caring about women, not just as a family mother, is impertinent. [[Antal Csárdi laughs.]] In my wife's work, I see what it means to be a woman, what their struggles are, what their joys are. [[Zoltán Varga: That's not exactly what we were thinking...]] The fact that we don't care about them is an open lie. That's all I'd say, since I'm sure on your own Facebook page, which you intended for this short speech, you're not going to reflect on what I said. I would like to add a few words to Antal Csárdi's comment. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Because he wasn't listening, he quoted it wrong, and he reacted completely differently, and it wasn't worth the answer. Thank you. [[Erik Bánki applauds.]]
u2021-03-22-314	For two minutes, I will address Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-315	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I wanted to make one more comment on today's debate, namely, when the Secretary of State kept talking about it, but several speakers also said how terrible it is when Hungary is in debt, and that you want to avoid it in any way, and it is a mistake on one side of EU funds that you can only borrow there. In this context, it occurred to me that, interestingly, you are only disturbed by Hungary's indebtedness if this is done within the framework of the European Union. So, where Hungary takes credit in its own system of allies, if any, it has been done in this respect, as euro-based bonds have been issued in a serious amount, but unfortunately you are not disturbed by this debt when you are indebted to the Chinese Communist Party or, where appropriate, in debt to Russia, Putin. After all, the financing of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant or the financing of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line also means extremely serious borrowing. By the way, I consider that Hungary's sovereignty is significantly violated, while if we take on such a loan from the European Union, then it is most likely that this sovereignty will not be violated in this form, since it is not intended for geopolitical purposes to allocate this type of credit. So I would like to point out to all the speakers on the part of Fidesz that when they talk about credit and sovereignty problems, they should also take this into account. And I'm gonna finish here to give Mr. President back the 12 seconds I took the last two minutes. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-316	Thank you. I will speak to Congressman Zoltán Balczó of Jobbik for two minutes.
u2021-03-22-317	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Erik Bánki's last speech, when the opposition criticizes the use of EU funds in Hungary, it taints a very strong player, because Angela Merkel told Viktor Orbán that he was satisfied with Hungary's very good use of EU funds. Günther Oettinger, who was the Commissioner for the European Union's Budget in the previous term, said this more specifically. He said that it is worth it for the Germans, Germany, to support the Eastern European countries with EU money, because most of the money is back in their economy, and therefore they are not, in fact, economically supportive, but active beneficiaries. So, of course, in this view, it is understandable that Hungary is performing well, because we are a very country that helps this German growth. But this is not the growth of Hungarians. Thank you.
u2021-03-22-318	Thank you. I now give the floor to Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, for a normal comment. Here you go, Deputy Group Leader.
u2021-03-22-319	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We've heard a lot of things here in the last few hours, but I'm trying to bring some new things into this debate, which I hope we'll get some answers from the State Secretarys here. It is important to mention that this HUF 18 500 billion is indeed a record amount for EU grants, even if we know that some of this will be a loan, which, of course, will have to be repaid. But we can obviously see that all EU countries must live with this because of the current economic crisis, right, the economic crisis caused by the epidemic. Yet the HUF 5000 billion that can actually be spent on green policy and climate protection is also a huge sum in this respect, and we see the trend of the past year or year and a half, not by accident, this rapid green turn at Fidesz. A few years ago, Viktor Orbán was reluctant to be green, but he is now an enthusiastic supporter and believer of this matter. Don't get me wrong, I am, of course, very happy about this, but I also have a question mark in mind that this budget, which contains such a large amount of money allocated to green policy, should actually be blocked by Fidesz, by the way, when the budget was debated in the European Union. I must also mention that it is very important what we will use these funds for and what the government will use them for. Here it was said from the Secretary of State that the Public Procurement Act does not work well. Well, I don't know if that statement, let's say, was agreed with Lőrinc Mészáros or István Tiborcz or any of his fidesz oligarchs, because I think they think it works very well. So, there may be a debate here between you that needs to be changed or not, but I'm glad you think so, and you see that this law needs to be changed, because we think there's something to be done about it, too. There is a document here called Hungary's recovery and adaptation plan, and this document is actually required to be published by the European Union. This document must be run by society, there must be organisations responding to it, as more people respond to it, as many of our countrymen express their views on this. I am very sorry, by the way, that we have not managed to run this as much as, say, any national consultation in which people are actually presented with ready answers. It might also have been worth a small amount of money, and then a number of our compatriots could give their views on this. But I know it's actually not that important to you. I cannot really stress how important it is to use these funds precisely, and how important it is to put money into Hungarian research and development as well. There are a lot of talented brains in Hungary, there are a lot of inventions that can be very, very important to Hungary in the future for sustainable development. In certain sectors, I think we might even be pioneers. I am pleased that it has been said here that solar panels may have been spoken of by the Secretary of State about solar panels, but they will also appear in households, and that they will try to spread this as much as possible through grants. I am very happy about this, and I am sorry that for many years you have given up on this thought, since we have heard before that you wanted to put such solar panels on 300,000 rooftops. At the beginning of the second Orbán government, we heard these slogans that we agreed with. And then, to this day, they didn't show up, this huge EU source... didn't they, these are gone, these thoughts. I hope that the funds for this sector will not end up, let us say, with Adnan Polat, who, I understand, has become a Hungarian citizen, and not with Prime Minister's circle of friends, but indeed with Hungarian startups in this sector, which are very, very industrious and talented, or Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises that have existed for many years. Because, yes, I think they could use these resources very well, and this could be a very good development for them. [[22.20]] And what else should these resources come to, in my opinion, in the field of green policy? Obviously, I agree with the renovation of the Mátra power plant, so it's a fossil power plant, it can't continue to function in this form. We also support the government's efforts to renovate this power plant in such a way that jobs will otherwise remain. This is very, very important, because it is the livelihood of ten thousand families, not only the Mátra Power Plant, but also the related facilities. Support for renewable energies I have already mentioned: my initiative on wind power has recently been voted out at the Commission's meeting, but I very much hope that the government will consider it, because the earlier concerns about wind power plants that existed and I also sign that it is not the most efficient renewable energy source, but today there have been technologies, renewals in this area that have been far less expensive, and after-treatment of end-of-life materials has also been much better solved. And by the way, we don't want wind power plants everywhere in the country, but where there is economic potential and weather conditions for this, this should be given. Here, a legislative amendment would be necessary to withdraw or amend a kilometer of regulation. By the way, we've been talking about multinationals several times, and I'd like to close with that. First, Mr State Secretary, he said that in 2010 the multinationals had been taxed, and then he explained why there is a need to provide EU funds to the multinationals today. Here, too, I felt a slight resistance to his own sentences. I worked for a multinational company on the production line. Believe me, I believe that Angela Merkel is very fond of what she is experiencing in Hungary, because Germany is getting the cheap labour force she needs, but believe me, the people working in Hungarian multinationals may not see it that way. However, I would expect an answer to my question, if you were so anti-multi-national, then why was it in the European Parliament recently that, in addition to Germany, Hungary was in fact the only Member State that did not support the Portuguese Presidency's proposal, which would in fact have made it transparent how much capital multinationals, European multinationals, have, and where, in fact, where they are storing or where they are taking the money that they are producing in certain countries. I would very much like to hear the answer to that question. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-22-320	Thank you. The next speaker was Mr László Varga, representative of the MSZP. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-03-22-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Approaching the end of such a long debate day, it may be a bit good to say at the end as an opposition representative, because I can sum up a little bit what I have seen here. I would also like to give a different framework in this comment, perhaps, to the task that lies ahead of all of us here. Firstly, I fully agree with my fellow opposition Members that we have had very bad experiences over the last ten years in terms of the effectiveness of resource use, and we have heard about a great deal of corruption in the country, which has often been linked to pro-government politicians or pro-government interests. I agree with my fellow opposition Members who voiced their indignation in this regard, because in the last ten years, there has been a historic opportunity for our country to catch up with the developed West. By the way, I think that this is what the indignation in a large part of Hungarian society is all about, this disappointment. Of course, this is a decades-old dream that Hungary will catch up with the developed West, and this is the dream of a change of regime and the dream of joining the EU itself, but let us say that politics is very much indebted to Hungarian society in this respect. I think that it is also right for my fellow opposition Members to point out the responsibility of the last 10 to 11 years in this respect. However, I see today's situation as a seven-year cycle and the opportunity offered by the RRF, the great tragedy that has hit mankind, the European Union's development resources due to the coronal virus epidemic, all could mean a decade for our country, which is a historic opportunity to catch up. Obviously, after the crisis has passed, the health epidemic has passed, and after the socio-economic crisis, we hope it will be a period of economic activity, and it does not matter how we transform social and economic relations in Hungary. So I say that we are all doing the right thing if, in decades' time, our children and grandchildren ask us what we have done in this period as responsible politicians, what suggestions we have made to ensure that a better, more effective development program serves our catching up, we do our job well if we can answer this with a calm conscience, that we have done our job. This is precisely why I do not understand why the government was not more open to the opinion of the municipalities during this period. The development programmes of municipalities, which have been adopted very often by opposition-led municipalities, could have been better coordinated with RRF and seven-year cycle programmes. We do not see this exactly as it happened or at what depth it happened, and this is the cause of problems. I am basically approaching this debate in two respects. One of them is obviously my faction, the position of the MSZP fraction. We have divided into seven groups the priorities, important social and economic goals that we want to achieve. Those of my fellow Members who have known me longer know that when I talk about development policy, I always mention the goals of my narrower Patria, Borsod County and Miskolc. For example, in Miskolc, for example, the lucky situation is that it has recently been born, and the programme "Miskolc 2030" is also constantly forming as much as possible, which is a major vision for what Miskolc we would like to see in Hungary in ten years' time. I would like to tell you that, first of all, my faction would like man to be at the heart of this whole process, this planning cycle. There are very complex priorities, very complex application systems at a time like this, but we want this programme to serve people, Hungarian people, lifelong learning, safe, flexible employment, equal opportunities, ensuring fair working conditions, adequate social protection, social inclusion, decent housing and a decent retirement income. So these are the goals on which I think it is important to emphasise that man must be in the focus. Second of all, I'm talking about health care. The state of health in Hungary is in the crossfire of our debate. I think that in these weeks we should be very careful to put every sentence in this regard, and we should always stress that there is an amazing heroic struggle between countless Hungarian health workers in order for Hungary to survive this epidemic successfully and to have the least possible sacrifice in Hungary. Their heroic work, I think we all admit it. We see your struggle. We see the struggle of Hungarian families, the Hungarian people, but we will have to talk about it with the end of the epidemic, and perhaps even now, why, despite this heroic struggle, this epidemic is causing so many deaths in Hungary. There is certainly room for improvement in the health system, and I think it can be said that we have seen a lot of missed development opportunities in Hungarian health care over the past ten to eleven years. The next ten years should be about the development of health care, the construction of a fair system accessible to all, which offers opportunities like the Western one for all members of Hungarian society. [[22.30]] This is an opportunity, an unprecedented development period, combined with two large packages, so a very important priority for us is the development of health care. We'd like to focus here as a third, let me mention future generations. It's all about them. In the beginning, obviously, the RRF as a construction, a construction that will obviously be paid for by future generations, so it doesn't matter what opportunities these developments provide for our children and grandchildren, how they increase the competitiveness of our country and how they improve the life chances of the future generation. It is important to reduce youth unemployment. In this respect, there are European programmes and there are further needs, but it does not matter what we do in Hungary today. Rent-building programmes are abusively small in scale or have fallen behind in previous years, as well as a substantial fight against child poverty. The real stake is, therefore, the potential of future generations and the knowledge we will give them in Hungary, which will also serve their competitiveness. It is important to have a green turn, as an opportunity to emerge from the crisis as soon as possible is an economic outburst, and I think it is very important that our country also provides a living, natural environment for the people living here. I think it is important that Hungary solves the remaining problems of water utility development in these ten years, from healthy drinking water to amazing network losses. Then 50 percent because of the state of the previous asbestos cement pipes in Miskolc, this network loss, but I think my fellow Members from other major cities could talk about it. These are things that if Hungary doesn't solve in these ten years, we don't know when there will be a source of similar volume. At the time of the announcement of the Modern Cities programme in the April 15 of the Prime Minister in Miskolc, I held a press conference immediately after the event, and I said that two things were unsettlingly missed, which is also an environmental goal. One of them is brownfield rehabilitation, specifically the steelworks earlier, I'm thinking of DAM territory, or even Digger territory. Now we hear a lot about rust zones, and I would like to put them on the flag of Miskolc, so that Hungary can solve this landscape damage and this debt in these ten years. It is necessary to manage the brownfield areas, as well as the former industrial areas. And the other is air pollution, and I've talked a lot about it here in the House. It doesn't go as far as the valley of Sajó, so this is the whole county issue, but Miskolc is also very serious, every year the air in the city is unhealthy for weeks. Then 13 thousand Hungarian countrymen's lives will be shortened year after year, and 13 thousand of our countrymen will die earlier, so that air pollution is like this in Hungary. Here, for green purposes, you can arrange a lot of things, energy rationalization programs not only at the housing houses, but also, obviously, also at the family houses; clean transport, green buses, electric buses and rethinking the fixed track. I am thinking of the tram-trains here in Miskolc and its surroundings, as in Borsod County, and I am thinking of the sub-intermodal node improvements that affect the station of Miskolc, the Tisza railway station, wheat space, and a very different dimension for the agglomeration. Let us not forget that we are talking about 350-400,000 people here, if we include the dimension of Kazincbarcika, Tiszaújváros and South Borsod. So these are all goals that, with green projects, Lillafüred, the development of Bükk, the development of Bánkút, and, of course, do not forget, together with the development of historical Avas and the historic downtown of Miskolc, they can provide a whole new city for people living in Miskolc and the surrounding area. So the plans are in place, and Miskolc 2030, they are available, on the government, it is up to you what you will hear in the coming months. I'd rather say the next month is a good one, because there are shorter deadlines here in this regard. Hear the word of the Miskolcs! I'm asking you to do this. There has been a lack of substantive consultation and formal consultation with the municipalities, which I see, but this can be replaced in the short time remaining if these proposals are taken seriously. Susu..., according to the principle of subsidiarity, it was difficult for me to say so suddenly, as my fellow Member Ungár, so let me say as a fifth on the principle of subsidiarity, that the direct resources of the municipalities are also very important, and we consider them to be important. I think that if you are serious about the kind of rhetorical struggle that you have with Hungary regarding the budgetary resources due to Hungary, then I think that there is also the best place for certain decisions, decisions of this type, where this decision is the closest to the people and those involved. I therefore believe that there can be no opposition to the support of direct municipal resources. I therefore ask you, my fellow members of the Government, to support these issues in Brussels and with their Western European partners, even if they have fewer and fewer partners in this recently. Much has also been said about the criteria of the rule of law. I think it is clear that the implementation of common values and principles must be supported, and it is also clear that our group supports accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, it is our firm position that Hungary and its citizens can do nothing to harm because the current government is opening up a front in Brussels. Therefore, Hungarian people cannot suffer any damage, but we need clear criteria for the rule of law. As a seventh, I think that the volume, scale and form of cohesion and agricultural support should be preserved, even if the coronal virus epidemic has now rewritten the situation and the budget figures. It is in our country's interest that these well-established and well-known funds work and serve our national interests in the same way as before. Of course, that requires transparent and proper rules. To sum up, therefore, I say that we have a historic decade ahead of us, and that Hungary may no longer have the opportunity to catch up quickly and effectively, or it will not be in the foreseeable future, or in our lives or in our political careers. I think that we work well in opposition and in a party of governments if we make proposals with full awareness of this responsibility and formulate our development programmes in the broadest possible agreement. I regret that this failed at first, and I regret that the opposition had to take this debate day initiative in order to have a meaningful dialogue in this Parliament, but it is never too late. I would also ask you to take into account the opposition opinions that have been expressed here in order to establish their final position. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-03-22-322	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs. Potocska, Anita Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Forint 18 500 billion, that is what we are talking about, there are several hours of EU budgetary debate held on the basis of the opposition initiative, in which my fellow Members have clearly explained the concerns that we have raised, the concerns that we have about what you will use the money for in the 2021-27 term. Obviously, we're not saying this by accident. We have had an experience, for 11 years we have seen what your government is spending these EU funds on. In the previous seven-year cycle, he found 12 000 billion forints, and most of them migrated to the pockets of Viktor Orbán's oligarchs for investments that, by the way, did not serve the interests of the Hungarian people. [[For signals:]] You can shake the heads, you can smile on them, but this is the Hungarian reality, which is sad, because the European Union is not giving us these resources to make you rich, but to ensure the well-being of the Hungarian people. I haven't been able to do that in a while. [[22.40]] What did I experience as deputy mayor in Siófok when the city applied for the TOP applications? I found that we had been ordered by the Member of Parliament, and then he dictated the amount of money that should be applied for not only here, but also in several places in the country, it was practically sold out about who would be entitled to use the funds. This should not be the case, and it should not be the case that some of the investments are considered to be carried out by the county authorities, such as in the case of TOP applications in the previous budget cycle. What happened? The county has practically exhausted its powers, they have been given the opportunity, because you control them a hundred percent throughout the country, and you have given them the power to form the members of the jury and decide which municipality will be entitled to. We got to the point where the applications were submitted in the specified way, how much they could start and what project they could start in, and then the committee met after a few months, and these TOP investments were so late that the municipalities got there that they had to withdraw in several cases, because they simply increased the investment in the past few years, so that when the local government was counting the funding, it was still in the first place, and by the time we got to the point where the support decision came, say, a year or a year and a half later, because it was like this, it wasn't in the first place, but it cost two icks. So what can the municipality do? Well, he doesn't have a lot of options. One, he says it's okay, I'll take out a loan, I'll pay off my settlement. Well, that is not advisable, especially at a time like this, which we are now living. Two, he says he's gonna try to get the county council extra funding to finish the application, which, if he's friendly, he might get, if he's oppositional, then they're gonna spread their hands. Or the third: say thank you, no, I dare not venture to indebte my settlement. What, then, do the people in the settlement do? The mayor and the municipality are blamed for the fact that the investment was not made in their settlement. This is what I would like to protect the municipalities in the budget cycle 2021-2027, so that these proposals do go and get to the municipalities so that there is no discussion that the investment applied for will cost so much because it is necessary to make quick decisions, not to push files for months, but to make firm decisions, so that the Hungarian people to whom this European Union resource actually enjoy the benefits, because that is why we receive these funds, and not to make luxurious investments and constructions that Hungarian people cannot do anything about. Because we have actually seen, as my fellow Members here have said in the long, several hours-long debate, that the European Union's support of HUF 12 000 billion, the source that was in the previous seven-year cycle, was not in the interests of the Hungarian people. I trust that in 2022 the new government will be interested in it, and if the opposition can form a government, we will certainly try to make sure that these European Union funds, which, by the way, represent a loan of 15 000 billion plus 3500 billion, that if you decide to invest properly and promote it, you will be given rapid decisions not only to the municipalities but also to the Hungarian people through all sorts of other projects. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-03-22-324	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-325	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Lords and opposition representatives, That's the way I'm supposed to address you. At the end of such a long debate, I would only like to conclude it in a few short sentences and express my own opinion. This HUF 18 500 billion available between 2021-27 will have a historical responsibility regardless of the three governments that will control the country during this period. I believe that this can be used effectively for the benefit of the Hungarian nation if we learn from the mistakes of the past 15 years, if the governments do not commit the previous crimes, and I also believe that the Fidesz government will have to change the economic policy in the remaining time, so that we can really use it in a proper way for the benefit of the country. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-22-326	Thank you. Again, I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches. I give the floor on behalf of the government to Szabolcs Ágostházy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, within a twenty-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-327	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thank you very much for this opportunity and, above all, I would like to express my appreciation to all those who have tried to comment on the debate, not only on the side of the pro-government Members, but also on the opposition side. For some, this also meant considerations that have been considered and otherwise followed, or we consider it worthwhile, so thank you for these. At the same time, the bottoms dominated me more in the debate, but I will address them, and I would like to answer the points raised in the debate. To Mr Balczó's recent speech on how we would like to make use of the resources for the remaining time of the Fidesz government, we are only planning with the responsibility to be happy to complete the entire period. So we want to plan so that there will be no future problems with implementation. I have come to the idea that, among opposition representatives, it is often said that Hungary's development is largely due to EU funds, but at the same time it is claimed that Hungary is misusing these EU funds. Putting these two statements side by side, I get the feeling that some people get entangled in their own lies. With regard to the implementation of the partnership principle and social consultation, as I listened to the debate, on the one hand, from the Regulation of the Recovery Fund, the EU regulation, I looked up the one sentence that is about this, and it sounds like the regional and local authorities can be important partners in the implementation of reforms and investment. In this respect, they should be properly consulted and involved in accordance with the national legal framework. I would like to point out that this is all that the European Union expects in terms of the Restoration Fund. I have looked at the seven-year budget coordination obligation to do so, the Commission has a checklist, such a monitoring table, we have already met all aspects. All of Hungary's commitments to the Union have therefore been fulfilled in this respect, but we are still ready for further discussions. The subject of public procurement was a very common element in today's debate. Some of these measures are also not our own, so as not to raise questions of confidence in opposition representatives, I will quote the European Commission's metrics. The volume of public information for Hungary is 98 percent and close to the completeness of the information in principle. In this respect, Hungary is the best in the European Union, so our public procurement is, if you will, the most transparent in the EU 27. In terms of public procurement procedures without publication, Hungary has previously represented a higher proportion, six years ago around 3600 non-public procurement, otherwise legally, but using the possibility that the law has provided for unpublished procurement procedures, this has now decreased to 274, less than one tenth, so we are able to make a meaningful improvement; we are moving on this path. With regard to award criteria, only 44 percent of Hungary has the best price. As surprising as this may sound, this is positive in the EU's value system, as this means that in the remaining part, some 56 percent, it is not only about the cheapness of an investment or a purchase, but also about its quality, including the validation of long-term environmental aspects. [[22.50]] The success rate of SMEs in Hungary is 60 percent, which is an outstanding indicator. Just to compare it with a neighbouring state, in Romania, this is 5 percent of the winners of SMEs there. Only countries far smaller than us have a higher rate than 60%. I suppose so, but it's only a logical conclusion that this can come from the size of the markets in their case. Mr Balczó also quoted the Council's decision. I don't remember literally, but I assume that this could have been a detailed part of the country-specific recommendations quoted from a Council decision. In this context, my experience in the past six months of the Commission's negotiations has been a regular topic for the European Union's bodies, that we are wearing this hat, we do not have a hat on us from the bunny joke, if you may be familiar with it. Each time we begin to see how well it is, but what are the specifics, we are about to encounter the lack of advice and international examples, the itinerary or line of action that the government adopted in a government decision at the beginning of February, but they welcome and see that yes, this is the way that is also forward for us under the EU rules, but the government made that decision of its own will, because of its own commitment. I would not comment on the correction rate, the 3.9 percent mentioned by several people, because Congressman Bánki rightly pointed out that this is an indicator of which about three quarters are determined by the irregularity of Metro 4 and the effect of this method runs in about three years. So for three years from the conclusion, this will make our indicators worse. However, I would like to quote one of OLAF's directors from an audit report. He wrote that he did not see a systemic problem in statistics on Hungary. So our data are correct in terms of quality and quantity, and in Hungarian, we do not skip the European average in any way. As regards the exchange rate, comments were made as to how much we are currently above the 2010 exchange rate level. The figures quoted are, of course, correct, but they do not make the figures about Hungarian development policy and the well-being of Hungarian people relative. Because all the data that we have mentioned in today's debate, Mr Secretary of State or myself, concern net real wages, i.e. a specific standard of living. The deterioration of the exchange rate has no effect in this respect. Every number we have said, how the welfare of the Hungarian people has improved, continues to stop. The exchange rate change does not affect this in a negative direction, but there are also benefits for the country's competitiveness. It was said that it might have been suggested from Jobbik's ranks that it was right to see how much resources the government has provided for Budapest. That's an interesting point. We've thought a lot about it ourselves. At a press conference last week, I told you about the planned sources in Budapest for the next ten years. From all the EU budget, it should be about HUF 3000 billion in any type, which can reach the Budapest area, half of which is for transport, one quarter for health development, one fifth for economic development, and the rest for green affairs. In this respect, they can argue with their prospective coalition partners. This is a small part of the capital, thanks to God, of the parliamentary parties. In this we represent the position that Budapest is not a city in itself, but also the economic engine of the country and the capital of the nation. In this respect, therefore, I do not think that the resources here are excessive, because their indirect beneficiaries are far more than just the community of residents. Some more detailed reactions to the comments made by the Members. Congressman Zoltán Varga, from DK, had an interesting remark that hit my ear. According to this, he would also consider it acceptable if the entire operation of the government was financed by the Union. This is an extremely shocking statement to me, but from his mouth, from the point of view of the values of his party, it is natural, because they are accustomed to it, a state of existence acceptable to them by a vulnerable government dependent on foreign influence. The Fidesz-KDNP government believes in sovereign nations in Europe and acts accordingly. In connection with the attacks by László Varju and the representatives of DK, it occurred to me that, in addition to our own conscience and moral integrity, it is an important factor that they are attacking us almost personally, because that means that we are on the right track. So any criticism we receive from DK in this regard can even be positive to me. Congressman László Szakács said that there is nothing among our goals that he cannot agree with. Thank you very much. So this part of the debate in this regard is also a positive conclusion for us. After that, however, as if he had been thrown away from reality, I remembered an example of how he was not disturbed by reality. It may even be that László Varju was the State Secretary of the Ministry of Development when Hungary's support from one of the EU health funds resulted in an investment in dog fitness. This was so successful that the Open Europe Institute in England put this investment at the top of the list of pointless investments. They judge us in many ways to make good use of health money. On the other side of the pan or balance sheet, I would like to refer to the investment in dog fitness as an example. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Mr Lajos Korózs, Member of the MSZP, expressed a strong criticism of the subsidies to replace employment. I would like to add one thing: when they paid more than the Fidesz government for support for employment, they managed to bring together 11.3% of unemployment. I do not think that was in the interests of the Hungarian people at the time. On the other hand, the employment policy represented by Fidesz, when it comes to providing citizens with direct income from job creation and the labour market, is the result of the fact that at the end of last year, i.e. at the end of 20, after the first year of the Crown Virus crisis, the country boasted a 4.3 percent, if I remember correctly, of the fourth unemployment rate at EU level. Of course we'd like to take this down. Speaker László Kövér was quoted in connection with the recruitment of the RRF loan that Next Generation is an EU instrument of mockery. I can agree with that in many ways. Well, indeed, future generations will repay this part of the loan, but at the same time our responsibility for planning and using resources is not only to pay back these loans, but to use them for their own good. So any investment planned by the Hungarian government against the recovery tool is an investment that represents Hungary's long-term interest. It was raised as a question, counting back from the figures we said, that Hungary would then take on the RRF loan. We are currently planning for the total amount of credit, but this does not mean that we will take this up when we present the plan. By the way, if we don't take it in the plan to be submitted by 30 April, if I remember correctly, we could resubmit a plan for the loan not yet taken out by the end of 23 days. This basically depends on what we want to do with the loan we can borrow from the RRF source, the proportion of which we can finance the investments and reforms planned by the Hungarian government. So if the use of resources can be fully in line with the government's implementation of the strategic goals in Hungary, we will take it if the EU rules require this money to be spent on other investments than what we see useful and in the interests of the nation, and if we do not take it or take it only in part. That's what I can say. [[Zoltán Balczó: Or less!]] Or less, yes. Let's get these numbers straight. Hungary's national envelope from the Recovery Fund consists of two factors. The support part of this is HUF 2511 billion, we have not yet said the numbers in this particular way today, but let me mention these in the closing section. The loan is a share of HUF 3382 billion, which is about 57 percent of our total RRF framework. [[23.00]] So, overall, we are talking about some HUF 5894 billion. We do not need to give us a national contribution directly to this resource, but this is just a relatively well-sounding advantage, as we will pay 57 percent back. So, in fact, two thirds of this is national money. The part of the operational programmes of the seven-year budget provided by the European Union is about HUF 7020 billion. If we add this Hungarian portion, then the operational programmes will include a total of 9530 billion at present exchange rates. The common agricultural policy support is about HUF 3710 billion. The second pillar of this is the rural development programme, for which the government will provide a greater national contribution than ever before, corresponding to the theoretical maximum. It follows that for the Hungarian countryside the age of resource abundance is really coming, not only in terms of the resources due to Hungary from the EU funds, and not only the additional revenues generated by the Hungarian budget and the GDP growth of the Hungarian economy are being used for economic development, but we are also trying to add the largest national contributions available to the EU funds. In a few words, I would like to refer you back to economic interest, if I still have a short period of time. I'm sorry that I can't even show you this now, but I have in my hand a graph showing how the individual regions of Hungary, measured at purchasing power parities in GDP per capita, were compared in 2004 when we joined, in 2010 when the Fidesz government was re-governmented, and in 2019. This shows that Budapest is doing extremely well, it stands at 151 percent of the EU average, so it is 1.5 times as advanced as the overall EU average. At the same time, before 2010, we had three rural regions that were so successful in the economic policy of the time, which were actually falling behind the EU average. The Fidesz-KDNP government reversed this trend after 2010 and the same regions started to grow spectacularly. Just to mention three examples, in terms of Central Transdanubia, North Hungary and South Great Plains, these regions have managed to bring in more than 10 percent since 2010 with the support of the government and because of the performance of local economic operators compared to the EU average. However, this has been achieved by the fact that, although Budapest is developing slightly slower than during socialist governments, they still have a drastic development, and the capital itself has gained an additional 6 percent advantage compared to the EU average. So I think that, since the Hungarian government not only represents specific cities, it is very easy to politicalise that someone feels responsibility for only one city, although it has its own difficulties, but if a government tries to represent the whole country, it should not forget the convergence regions where there is most development needs. It can also be seen from our most clear statistics that the country is on the right track in this regard. We would like to continue the same policy in the next development cycle. A few sentences on the process ahead. We will continue to look forward to comments, especially constructive ones, and we will be easier to respond to. As I said, we believe it is realistic to submit the national recovery plan by 30 April, and on the basis of the EU rules, we are likely to receive approval from the Commission in August. We are in a worse situation, but not because of the Hungarian party, but because the Union is lagging behind in terms of the seven-year budget, because it is not realistic that EU rules will be adopted before the end of June, and we will be entitled to submit our plans formally. Therefore, the European Commission will be realistic in the autumn to adopt the domestic operational programmes of the seven-year budget. But that doesn't mean we're delaying anything. So what we see is that the Hungarian government is serious about, has already started those investments at the beginning of this year, we are starting to invest, whether it is infrastructure development or SME support, and they are continuing to run under the cover of the national budget, and we are waiting for the European Union to recognise these efforts and, in addition to strengthening our plans, to become funding. In addition to the current development of the Hungarian economy, despite the Crown Virus crisis, this is also the result of the successful economic policy of recent years. So thank you, too, for all the political players who have contributed to this. In today's debate, without repeating my constructive opinions, we can deal with political opinions in place. Mr President, Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-22-328	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone, in the true sense of the word. The fact is that the debate ended with the closing words of Mr State Secretary, so that the political debate is closed. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, Honourable Parliament. We now have post-scheduled speeches. The first among these can be spoken in 5 minutes by MEP Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik:. How did TAO benefit from football replacement training? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-329	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, They used to say that Hungary is the country of ten million football professionals. I'm not saying I'm good at football, I just like football, and I have some experience in the field of top sports. At the same time, it is a matter of fact that never so few young talented Hungarian football players played in the first class as in recent years. How can this be, when we have spent hundreds of billions of forints worth of tao money to raise and train these players in the last ten years? So in any case, I think it's worthwhile that we deal with this issue, look a little deeper, look deeper. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a huge success to note that the national eleven have re-qualified for the European Championship. It is right to think that this result is already due to the professional work of the football supply workshops financed by Tao. However, the Serbian associations give more players to the current team than Fradi, Újpest, Felsút and Kisvárda in total. Based on the research of a PhD student in Pécs, we looked at which teams we could be grateful for the players who won the European Championship. Well, let's see, then. Nikolic and Bookshop are entirely thanks to Serbia, and Holender is partly due to Serbia. Nego is French, Orban is German, and besides them, Attila Szalai, Ádám Szalai, Ákos Kecskés and Dominik Szoboszlai are not the fruits of the Hungarian supply system, since they were mostly raised abroad. So there are nine players in the frame who have become great footballers one way or another, but not by the Hungarian replacement workshops. At the same time, how did the Hungarian clubs perform? The MTK is related to Gulácsi, Bese and Schäfer. The Honvéd has inexorable merit in the Botka, Holender, Baráth and Rich selections. In addition, a country base, such as Pécs, Debrecen, Paks, Győr and Fehérvár, contributed to the success. What is very sad, however, is that Ferencváros and Újpest are certainly not the base of the Hungarian team in terms of replacement education. And even though he became a state-renowned academy in Kisvárda, so far he hasn't made the national team happy with a single player. And even though he went to about 70 billion forints of the academy in the Upstairs, only Kleinheisler and Sallai turned to them, but it would be a great exaggeration to tie these two players to them in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, Although Hungarian taxpayers have supported the training of Hungarian footballers with hundreds of billions of taoforints over the past ten years, the success of the Hungarian national team depends mainly on the young players who are abroad and/or localized players. The greatest success of Hungarian football at present is therefore much more due to Serbia, Germany, Italy, France than the Slippery, Kisvárda, Újpest or Ferencváros. [[23.10]] And then, I put it even more delicately than the team captain of the team, Ádám Szalai, because this is how he described the home affairs, and I quote, we haven't raised any talent in 20 years! We've been expecting something for 20 years, and we just don't have anything to build on. There are no players trained, there are no level coaches who know anything or see anything at European level. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of all this, the question arises: is this all right? Despite all this support, why don't we have anything to build from? Why don't we have a level of trainers who know something at European level? And who even checks the utilisation of the Tao billion spent on training? What kind of professional work is going on at the academy? Well, in the country of 10 million football players, we want answers to these questions as soon as possible. Thank you for listening.
u2021-03-22-330	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, may say: "The voice of the countryside 5" Here you go.
u2021-03-22-331	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You like to shock Hungarian people. At the beginning of March, the inhabitants of Balatonvilágos were shocked by the government's decision to build a housing monster on the shore. Then last week, when I mentioned this housing monster in a speech before the agenda on Tuesday, and because of the public protests, I also mentioned that the pro-government representatives did not speak in this case, the events accelerated. In the debate on the Land Planning Act, I also said that this building permit should be revoked, because if you are proud of being for the Hungarian people, and it is important for you that what is being built in individual settlements, you should pay attention to the Balaton, and pay attention to the construction of buildings that are not foreign to the coast. This building you designed there is a foreigner. The fact that there is no Balaton master architect confirms this to me in the debate. And we got to the point of really thanking the Balatonvilágos residents for their terrible resistance, for which everyone can be grateful on the shore of Lake Balaton, they set an example of opposition that this weekend the MP of the region finally spoke. He was very uncomfortable with the case that took place in Balatonvilagos, the old pioneer camp in Alga. He wrote that he couldn't accept this building anymore, and he couldn't support it, because there seems to be a lot of resistance. He then said that some people wanted to capitalize on this matter. Well, what if it's not a tough policy? This building is NER! What they're doing at Lake Balaton is embodied in this building. Taking the Balaton away from the Hungarian people, the fact that it's marked that a ten-meter lane, a coastal promenade, should be abandoned... what are you doing? They designed a building like this. We got to the point that today, a few hours ago, the MP in the region dropped him off: victory, he did everything he could, in this form this building will not be realized. Then I ask you: in what form will it take? At today's meeting of the committee, which is the vice-president of the committee and did not take part in the committee meeting, even though it was a detailed debate on the amendment of the spatial planning instrument, Deputy Secretary of State Füleki was there, and I asked him to speak as Deputy State Secretary for Construction, since the Government Office issued the building permit for this housing monster. I'll ask him when to withdraw that building permit, and he didn't even give me an answer. That's your policy. But I'm very happy about it, because I don't care who's looking at this case as a success, the point is that this building [[He's showing a sheet of paper with a picture of the building.]] It will not be realized, it will not be done in this form, and it will finally be in the interest of the Balatonvilágos. So I really hope that with that building permit, you'll do exactly what I'm doing with this card right now. and throw it out where it belongs, in the trash can. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-03-22-332	Thank you very much. Representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr.László Varju, is coming now:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address.
u2021-03-22-333	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Oh, my God, I can tell you, we've been fighting for years to get our own hospital back in the district. In the past, four of these institutions were established in Annex IV. The population of Újpest has remained essentially without a hospital since 2015 in the district, but mainly thanks to the Orbán government. As the first step of the decommissioning process, hospitals have been transferred from the municipality to the government's maintenance, and in the end, the Újpestians have lost the opportunity to heal at home, and this is criminally irresponsible. Just be healthy, we'll deal with the rest of it, my grandmother always said. Then I didn't understand exactly why it was such a big deal, it was natural for me to be so. He left us a long time ago, but in these months almost everyone in Újpesten, Hungary and the world learns what this wise sentence means. Therefore, not only because of an emergency, but also because of maintaining our health and preparing for risks in the future, healing, but perhaps even more so in order to prevent it, the unblessed situation maintained by Fidesz needs to be changed. I am pleased to say that the representative body of Újpest's local government, after the municipal elections, said unanimously at the end of 2019 that Újpestre needed a hospital. According to the then unanimously adopted motion, the first step is a feasibility study, which has now been completed. From Mayor Tibor Déri, we took this study together with my colleague László Hajdu last week, and so the social debate started figuratively. Perhaps the most important thing is what services are needed in the coming decades, but also how they can be used, what is the best solution. We still have a number of questions to ask and discuss, because this study, which is about a hospital with 230 beds, seems to be most feasible for 230 active beds in so-called greenfield projects, i.e. a new hospital building to be built for this purpose. This hospital would otherwise cost HUF 15 billion in early 2021 prices and its operation would cost HUF 3.7 billion per year. The hospital in Újpest can obviously be a public investment, since the municipality does not have the necessary one-off costs for the construction or the contracts necessary for the maintenance. What I expect from today's government is that we will continue to bring this into the professional arena by continuing the debate that has started earlier, and even the debate that represents the government's intention, and thus promote the continuation of the planning. We in Újpesten hope that sooner or later there will be a government that is also interested in providing services at European level in Újpesten. We know that the Orbán government has, by the way, withdrawn funds from health care, that in 2009 the amount was 5.2 percent for health care, and today it is only 4.7 percent for GDP, ten years later. I don't even want to talk about social issues, because there it fell from 18.1 percent to 13 percent. However, we are confident that, based on past experience, one of the important bases of this can be Újpest as a health program. With this study, the municipality established the basis for professional debate, and for decision-makers, the choice of value should be important for health care. As a Member of Parliament of the District, I will work with every effort, and I will work with every means available to create the conditions for high-quality health services for the Újpestians. You know, there are few people in our district who can afford private health, supported and assisted by Fidesz, and that is why I am confident that there will be a social service that we can all use there, because, you know, in Újpesten, man is the most important value. Thank you very much for your attention. [[23.20]]
u2021-03-22-334	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bősz Anett, DK, the next speaker:, Thoughts on uneven socks and Down syndrome. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-335	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday was not only the first day of spring, but also the world day of Down syndrome. All over the world, we've been paying attention to people whose 21st chromosomes are not two, but three. Parents who give birth to Downes dolls therefore say that these people are, let alone less, but even more than their intact associates. Unfortunately, however, we need to talk about the many disadvantages of people with disabilities in our country, although early development and subsequent educational development could offer them many opportunities, but this is not the case. Back in the day, those who came into the world with Down's syndrome had a much lower life expectancy than their intact associates. Today, thanks to heart surgery, they too can live a full and long life. They could live more precisely if the world around them allowed them to show themselves and show their face to the world as to either one of us. Some of them have already obtained a degree, others are on boards that represent the world, but there are also people who work as waiters or bartenders, perhaps as loaders. Not everyone's so lucky. Unfortunately, not only the labour market, but the gates of many educational institutions remain closed to Down syndromes. In Western Europe, our fellow Western Europeans have launched a lot of programmes to help their Down syndrome countrymen, but unfortunately, this is not the case here. We are at the point, ladies and gentlemen, that private foundations and civil society organisations are raising money for families who are raising children down there, and that many people believe that Down syndrome is equal to banishing someone between the four walls all their life, just like many of our countrymen with disabilities. The fact that the gates of educational institutions and jobs remain closed to Down syndromes, although they would otherwise be able to do much more, otherwise it will also create a world for intact partners that is less than if Down syndromes can truly integrate in Hungarian society. It would be much better if parents, who find out that they're carrying a down-and-out doll, could immediately connect with the Down Foundation, immediately connect with families who have also brought a down-and-out doll into the world, and feel like they're not alone. Thus, there is a much greater chance that these dolls could stay with their biological parents, and they would be much more likely to be born, since we have to talk about the fact that unfortunately, the health system uses screening tests to spare parents from bringing downs dolls into the world. In many cases, stakeholders report that they would have been much better off if they had gotten into the hands of the Down Foundation with the baby born, leaving fewer people at the hospital, staying with the biological parents, or if the biological parents had decided to give up these children, they would have been able to immediately find a loving family for these babies. In and around Érden, a very beautiful story began years ago, which reminds us every year in a charity New Year's Eve run that not only acceptance but the state's help is very lacking. The charity run of the 2030 Association in New Year's Eve also helps families raising children and the Heart-sick Children Foundation every year. It would be good to live in a world where such charitable runs are not needed, even if it is heartwarming the way people unite in and around Érden, and expect the New Year's Eve not only to move well together, but they know that they also help families raising down-dolls. I think that we need to talk about recognising the responsibility we have for the quality of life of our people with Down syndrome; we all have to do this, not only for the education and health systems, but also for us citizens. In the meantime, let us recognize each other about uneven socks at least on World Day, III. The 21st of the month, but I've brought it now, as a symbol, the two socks I didn't wear yesterday, at least the pair of the ones I was wearing. [[He's showing me a couple of flimsy socks.]] I would like to encourage everyone to wear not only uneven socks on the 21st of March, but also to wear uneven socks on their hearts, to accept Down syndromes and to help them live a fuller life. Thank you for listening.
u2021-03-22-336	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is my duty to inform the Parliament that the Member asked for permission for an illustration, and this was an authorized illustration, which she just told and showed on a very important matter. Thank you very much. Congressman János Bencsik, an independent Member, will be following up:, We must move now, before it is too late! It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-337	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Tragic days and tragic weeks are behind us. Since World War II, this country has not suffered as much loss as it has recently suffered in human lives. Whose fault this is and what degree of responsibility it is, starting from Viktor Orbán, through Miklós Kásler, who is not here, to György Gődény, and perhaps I can mention the organizers of the virus protesters of Mi Hungary or the Facebook manager of the central DK, will decide that at the posterity, which we cannot judge yet. And I think that it is not necessarily the time to name those responsible, but the time to act, to put aside all our political differences and to see what we can do together to overcome this nightmare called Covid. The most important thing now is to set an example, so I hereby announce that we offer our assistance in the fight against the epidemic at the invitation of the Hungarian Medical Chamber with the activists and sympathizers of the Civic Response movement. I will volunteer for volunteer work myself and many of them, who have a medical degree and who do not have a layman, because we would like to take the burden off the shoulders of health workers who are already doing superhuman work on the brink of their performance. We also have a proposal that we are convinced that people's lives could be saved, because all the reports and our own experiences show that unfortunately not only our elderly countrymen have been hospitalized in the last few weeks, but also more and more middle-aged and young people in their 50s, 40s and 30s. This is supported by today's report by the operational tribe, according to which 90-95 percent of the diseases in Hungary today are responsible for the British mutant, which is as dangerous for middle-aged people as it is for the elderly. The vaccination schedule has not changed compared to this. Let us understand that young and middle-aged people today have not been vaccinated for months now because the system automatically prioritizes the later retirement age group, pensioners who usually have much less contact numbers as a result of their lifestyle. Since a lot of people in active age cannot afford to work at home, it is clear with common sense that these people meet a lot more people, they have a much greater chance of being infected, and, paradoxically, they have a much greater chance of further infecting their own elderly relatives and parents. Shop vendors, caterers, ticket inspectors, media workers, hairdressers, nails, children's educators, kindergarten teachers, I don't think they can stay at home. Or if they all stayed home at the same time, it would cause this country an economic disaster that we cannot even appreciate. Therefore, by feeling the weight of our responsibility, on behalf of the Civil Reply, we are proposing that our fellow countrymen over the age of 60 who do not register for vaccination by the end of March should not prevent young people and middle-aged people who have already done so in the future. Anyone who has hesitated so far should decide and decide, if possible, to register for vaccination. If you're still unsure or unsure, you'll have to wait your turn from here. It is unacceptable and unacceptable to exclude hundreds of thousands of people simply because of their age in the case of a mutant virus that has absolutely no respect for age and unfortunately does not choose its victims according to age. [[23.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Look around this country at what's going on: 30-40-year-old men and women are being pushed into intensive care. Pregnant mothers in the third trimester are bound to be on a ventilator and must undergo premature caesareans to protect the lives of themselves and their children. The mother and father of elementary school children will be taken away in a week by this virus, leaving orphan children and broken families behind. History, like such a terrible horror movie, rolls down in front of our eyes, and we look paralyzed. I ask you with due respect that we finally take bold steps and dare to change at last, before it is too late and too futile to change anything. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-03-22-338	Thank you very much. Mr László Hajdu, representative of DK, will be followed by a title entitled "Livius Gyulai" for the death of a graphic artist. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We're past the 18,000th domestic victim of the corona virus. Today I would like to commemorate one of the victims, the outstanding figure of contemporary art, the graphic artist Lívius Gyulai. Book illustrators, designers of many animated movies, whose death we learned from last week's news, reports, news. After so many successful decades, great victories, outstanding recognitions, he was forced to overcome Covid. On the 16th of March, at 84th of the morning, he had to give up after three weeks of uneven fighting with the virus. The disease proved invincible to him. His book illustrations form a key part of his life's work. During his career, he illustrated at least 500 books, the works of Frigyes Karinthy, Antal Szerb, István Ráth-Végh, Csokonai, Villon, Cervantes, Egon Kisch, Heinrich Mann, or, in particular, the medieval collection of poetry in Latin, Carmina Burana, the Gulliver character that illustrated the Swift novel. But as my colleague Balázs Barkóczi, spokesperson of the Democratic Coalition, Hungarian teacher pointed out that in one of Sándor Szathmári's novels, the illustration of the Gulliver illustration is also associated with his name. You will receive orders from the seedlings, Europe, Mora, Literature, Helikon publishers. His illustrations, as well as his playful, ironic, often archaic pen drawings, copper scratches, linosections and lithographs are characteristic, unique and unmistakable. They're like Gyula Livius. In Szeklerland, Barót, Kovasna County, was born in 1937 but his family was the II. During World War II, he fled to Hungary, lived in Sopron from the age of 9 and later in Budapest. He was a student of the Hungarian Academy of Fine Arts between 1956-62, János Kmetty's student, but Sándor Ék and Jenő Barcsay also taught him. László Nagy, a student of Kmetty, was also originally made to be a painter and, for the intervention of László Nagy, the Life and Literature announces his pen drawings and engravings as a college student. After his completion, he was able to attend a study trip in Italy and England. In 1971 he received the gold medal of the Graphic Biennale in Florence, and the Uffizi Gallery bought a lino section from him, which was a huge asset for him. He won the gold medal of the Leipzig Book Biennale, twice the certificate of the Cannes Film Festival, the gold Nofretete Prize of the Cairo Film Festival, he will be a Munkácsy Prize winner in 73, 89, and in 99 he will receive the award for Hungarian art, in 2004 he will be awarded Kossuth Prize. In 2005 Prima Primissima Prize winner, in 2014 artist of the nation. He became a member of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, his works were exhibited outside Budapest in Vienna, Amsterdam, Munich, Helsinki, in many places around the world. Lívius Gyulai was a citizen of Pestújhely. It was a vivid statue of modesty and directness. He was known as the Lokal Patriot of XV. in the district, in Pestújhely, in Rákospalota, in Újpalota almost all residents. Together with several other artists, he founded the Palace Treasurer Foundation, supported career-starting artists, and helped the art of school children with visual education. Annex XV is amended as follows: In the district, we cast a unanimous vote on him as a citizen of honor. His memory lives on in his graphics, animated films, book illustrations, many demanding works. To the dust of peace! Thank you.
u2021-03-22-340	Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK, next up:. The people of Debrecen and the people of the county miss a lot of things in their lives, but the Nánási MotoGP course is certainly not called among them. Here you go.
u2021-03-22-341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, At this late hour, I can say with absolute certainty that the simple and busy people of Hajdu-Bihar County, Debrecen, and residents, have a lot in mind about what they need. For example, it would be good to have a solid livelihood if the government, instead of making sound and meaningless promises, twirling and lying billionaire propaganda, could finally provide real help to workers who have lost their jobs, families who are on the edge of stumps, long, long months, years of vegetation and more and more closed companies. But it would be good, for example, to be able to walk normally instead of stained roads on the back of the stain. If there were public transport, public lighting, sewerage, and could be classified indefinitely. If the torture of people in the eastern part of Debrecen were finally resolved, for example, and it would not be necessary to take long hours, because on the country's busiest railway line, the barriers have been closed for 5-10 minutes in every quarter of an hour, and the solution, the four lanes and the elimination of the level rail crossings remain a false fidesz promise. Therefore, Article 21 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 should be amended accordingly. In the middle of the century, this railway line continues to cut the second largest city in the country in two. But no, that's not what matters right now. And not only for the prime minister who plays military, virologist, football player and builds small railway and stadiums in his mental ivory tower, it is not important, but also for Debrecen's pro-government parliamentary representatives. Maybe the least of them. In Debrecen, the priority is not to facilitate city dwellers, to help gardeners, to put an end to traffic chaos. On the one hand, due to the ever-slip construction of the BMW plant, the taking of new and new huge land, which is not only the city, the county, but perhaps also the best land in the country. On the other hand, based on some crazy, although well-identifiable logic, the so-called Velodrom and, of course, Lajos Kósa's grundol, hallmarked, fictional and unfortunately managed Hajdúnánás MotoGP track became a priority investment. [[23.40]] So much so that in these days the chairman of the tender committee announced that, that no, that Lajos Kósa won the winner of the design contest in a Debrecen practically every major investment, and by the way, the company in Budapest, which often approximates Fidesz. It is interesting that instead of the Debrecen designers, this company could design the Aquaticum Beach Bath, the Nagyerde Stadium, the billion-dollar Fidesz secretive Debrecen International School, the Dósa Rádor Square, the Forest Offices Headquarters, and God knows what else. Yeah, we're talking about Lajos Kósa, or else, and under those wings, there's also the Nana MotoGP track, who, we know very well, is such an incredibly lucky man that he almost got billions of forints as a gift, and he could own almost a quarter of the largest bank in Europe, because it turns out that a bell ringer has become a close friend to an heiress. Yes, we are also talking about Lajos Kósa, whose name has been linked to the half-finished, perhaps more than five billion forints, and already more than five billion forints in Debrecen theater investment, which the Debrecens simply call the Latinovits plant, and which the Vice President of Fidesz dreamed with great skill before the 2010s, in 2008 in a shopping mall between two panty-fictions. Now the fallen mayor of Debrecen is around the construction of an estimated 65 billion HUF MotoGP track, which, not only is familiar to his designer, as I just said, but also the head of the project company is the trusted man of Kósa, who was the head of the department during the mayor of Kósa for decades, and then became a supplier of all kinds to Debrecen Asset Management Holding. Believe me, the people of Debrecen and the people of the county miss a lot of things in their lives, but I can assure you that the MotoGP course of Hajduna is certainly not one of them. Maybe it's Lajos Kósa and his circle of friends who care about all of this right now. Sixty-five billion forints is a pretty greasy bite, big cubes, as they say, even for one of the 133 bravest, Lajos Kósa. Fat enough cubes to come back to the county and bend over for him. It's sad that we're here, but we're gonna change it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-03-22-342	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 6 April 2021. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good night, everyone.
