u2021-04-09-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. The 10th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, László Földi and Gergely Arató will be notaries of my assistance. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, A general debate will now take place. It follows from the Future Generations Land Foundation, T/15725 on the asset allocation to the Future Generations Land Foundation and on the amendment of certain laws in this context. Bill T/15722 on the establishment and implementation of the MOL New Europe Foundation. Bill T/15712 on the Foundation for the University of Szeged, the Foundation for the University of Szeged and the University of Szeged István Tisza Tisza for University of Debrecen Foundation, István Tisza for University of Debrecen Foundation and T/1572. Bill No. 3, the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation, the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation and the University of Pécs T/15718. Bill No. 3, T/15721 on the National Health and Medical Training Foundation, the National Health and Medical Training Foundation and the University of Semmelweis Bill T/15714. on the Foundation for the University of Dunaújváros, the Foundation for the University of Dunaújváros and the University of Dunaújváros Bill No.1, on the Rudolf Kalman Foundation for the University of Óbuda, the Rudolf Kalman Foundation for the University of Óbuda and the T/15723. Bill No. 3, the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation, the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation and the Tokaj-Hegyalja University, T/15716. Bill No. 2, on the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza, the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza and the University of Nyíregyháza T/15724. Bill T/15717 on the Foundation for the Budapest University of Economics, the Foundation for the Budapest University of Economics and the Budapest University of Economics Bill T/15719, on the Makovecz Campus Foundation, on asset relief to the Makovecz Campus Foundation and on the granting of state-owned property free of charge Bill T/15715 on the transfer of the maintenance rights of Eszterházy Károly University to the Egri County of Egri. Bill No.1, on the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Dance, the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Dance and the T/15713. Bill No. T/1572 on the Foundation for the University of Physical Education, the Foundation for the University of Physical Education and the University of Physical Education Bill T/15710, on public-service trust foundations Bill No.1, the Foundation for Hungarian Culture and the Foundation for Hungarian Culture and the Petőfi Literature Agency T/1572. Bill T/1571 on the Hausmann Foundation and on the asset allocation to the Hausmann Foundation Legislative proposal T/15728 on the regulation of higher education and amending certain related laws. The joint general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 until closure. I declare that the proposals are held as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda, who will present his exposé here on the platform. Mr. Secretary. When you're ready, you have the floor.
u2021-04-09-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The future of universities is the future of Hungary, which is why one of the most important programmes for the next few years is the renewal of our universities. We are well aware that the competitiveness of our country is greatly influenced by how and by what means we can respond to the digital and global challenges that are emerging more quickly. The winner of this almost blood race will be the one who gives the most modern and practical knowledge to future generations. In the competition for quality knowledge, only those nations whose universities are able to respond adequately to the challenges of the changing world order can succeed. Hungary will also be as successful as the young Hungarians are successful. Therefore, investing in knowledge, investing in it is not only an opportunity, but also a moral obligation, so we ask for the support of all Members of Parliament for the legislative proposals before the House. Dear Parliament, There have already been attempts to increase competitiveness, and we can also enjoy many successes. We have globally performing institutions, departments, we see good initiatives at home to connect business and university worlds. But we all know that there is a need for a real change of degrees in Hungarian higher education, because let's just say there is performance retention, the effect of the middle class, which is resistant to any change. There are those in higher education who were against any change. Fortunately, there is a clear ambition in the leaders and governing bodies of model-shifting institutions, and they want a change, even if fortunately there are people in their own institutions who are good at what they are doing. Of course, there's always uncertainty in change, and we understand that. But if these institutions cannot operate more openly, they cannot make good use of the unprecedented amount of development resources, they will not be competitive. If there is no change of model, development aid could fall into fossilised structures as before. We all know the Bible parable: and no one fills the new wine with old hoses, since the new wine rips the hoses apart, the wine spills out, and the hoses are ruined, but the new wine must be filled with new hoses. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: It's not true here!]] [[9.10]] Dear Parliament, We have a historic challenge ahead of us, and we need to move forward. Changing the operating system of higher education, raising the quality of Hungarian knowledge capital is also a matter of national strategy, and the economy of the future depends on it. We cannot be satisfied with the present, we must set new and new goals, and we must increase the standards. I don't think there's any and there's no debate between us. The government's primary goal is for young Hungarians to gain competitive knowledge in higher education, learn better at universities, receive more valuable degrees and be more successful in the labour market. The model change program, born in the spirit of Kunó Klebelsberg, provides Hungary with a historical opportunity to become one of the winning nations of the future by offering young people the opportunity to acquire modern knowledge. The aim of higher education is to develop an institutional system that is more open to the needs of the economy on the basis of domestic knowledge, innovation and talent, which works more effectively with companies. Higher education can be one of the main drivers of the Hungarian economy, our universities can be the best in Central Europe and the best in Europe, and they can become even more involved in the world's academic circulation. The advantage of the new form of financing is flexibility and a rapid response to the needs of the economy. We don't just want to keep up with Krakow, Prague, but we want to be better. This requires a more competitive approach and new university structures. Development and EU development resources are also serving the renewal of Klebelsberg, the share of which in higher education is expected to be around HUF 1500-2000 billion. This is an unprecedented development opportunity for Hungarian higher education. In addition, we are developing higher education by keeping it free for students. While the left wanted to introduce tuition fees, the national civilian government continued to provide state scholarship training. We give wealth to universities, while the left has owed them PPP schemes. Dear Parliament, I would like to present to you in more detail the proposals of the legislative package, as there is a serious debate going on around it. It is important to be clear why university leaders and senates have asked for a new operational environment to begin with the historic opportunity. One of the most common fears about the transformation of higher education is the loss of autonomy. But this is a serious misunderstanding, in other cases conscious misinterpretation, because the transformation does not reduce but increases autonomy. The new maintenance model, which has been developed in the course of previous experience and consultations, is essential for our universities to ensure a more competitive form of operation that is closer to the economy. It creates an autonomous structure that is more independent of the State, and wealth guarantees financial autonomy. The new form of employer also strengthens employee autonomy. The new foundation model also confirms the most important, the educational and research autonomy contained in the Fundamental Law. Thanks to a more predictable operating environment, institutions can respond more flexibly and more quickly to economic needs. Model-shifting universities can provide training, research, innovation, art, sport and cultural services as drivers of local social life, intellectual education and economic development to increase the competitiveness of their region and Hungary. It is also important to note that international practice shows the correctness of functioning in the foundation model, since seven out of the best ten universities operate in foundation form. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws is to fine-tune the operating environment of public-service trust foundations and the higher education institutions they maintain. Its further objective is to lay the foundation for the establishment and maintenance of a new university. The most important decision-making body of the foundation is the curatorium. The Board of Governors sets strategic directions, the most important operating frameworks, and is responsible for farming. It should also be possible to have members from the worlds of the Humboldt University, the University of California or Yale, the Academy, the economy and public life who are committed to the institutions, as well as international examples such as the Humboldt University, the University of California or the Yale, the Academy, the economy and public life, because this ensures that universities can truly become the most important institutions in the region. These curators bring dynamics, strength, efficiency and opportunities to universities in the long term. The public and transparent conduct of procurements which are part of the management of foundations performing public tasks is a priority public interest and the obligation of the Foundation to provide public procurement should therefore also be laid down in law. In view of the entry into force of the 9th amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary in December 2020, it is necessary to clarify the laws with a previous change of model in the case of the transfer of the right of founder and the transfer of assets. Within the framework of the proposal, we will transfer model-shifting universities to the category of private universities in the Annex to the Higher Education Act. But let it be clear that their task, their involvement, their operation in a public interest way distinguishes them from other private universities. Furthermore, it is necessary to amend the law on national higher education to establish the University of Tokaj-Hegyalja, as well as the maintenance change of Eszterházy Károly University, which will be known as Eszterházy Károly Catholic University from 1 August. Dear Parliament, The proposals in front of you will also help to strengthen the practical training of higher education and the economic engagement of universities in line with their training profile. The State ownership of the National Film Theatre Nonprofit Limited Liability Company is owned by the Theatre and Film Art Foundation. We're also helping with the work of the SEC. It appears that the previous statement of the left proved to be false. We work for the students of the SEC. Even better university, we are interested in creating even better training. We want students who choose training to succeed. This is greatly helped by the unprecedented support we provide to the university, as well as by the assets provided for the training. The foundation operating the University of Miskolc is owned by the State's part of the Ozd Steel Works. The former sanitarium building in Canyikvölgy will assist the University of Miskolc in its medical science training in the future. The amendment of the National Earth Fund Act also provides higher education institutions with basic educational or scientific research tasks related to the agricultural sector with the ability to manage the assets covered by the Act. [[9.20]] Dear Parliament, I would now like to turn to the bill on public-service trust foundations in this legislative package. As early as 2016, the government strategy "Training in Higher Education" defined the development of a more quantitative and qualitatively effective, more competitive higher education system as a directive. It drew attention to the need for higher education to adapt at the same time to economic and labour market needs, social expectations and research and development and innovation processes. To this end, the strategy proposed to develop a more flexible, not just a supported system of Community funds. So there is no new thing, the change of model is nothing new, we are implementing the 2016 strategy point by point. Just recently, the State Audit Office praised how well we are progressing with the implementation of the strategy, and we implement the objectives set in it in a disciplined manner. The study found that the changes in higher education since 2012 brought the structure of training into line with the needs of the labour market at a number of points. The State Audit Office also concluded that significant progress has been made in achieving the objectives set between 2014 and 2019, that the concentration of the training structure has improved, that there has been an increase in the proportion of students and students from abroad in dual training. The new model of maintainers of higher education institutions has been developed on the basis of international practice, but it can be extended beyond higher education to include other public tasks such as culture, traditionalism, talent management, the preservation of national culture, heritage protection, climate protection or the protection of the culture of the built and natural environment. Dear Parliament, According to the relevant section of the Fundamental Law, the establishment, operation and termination of a public trust fund with a public service mission is governed by a fundamental law. Due to the experience of the past period and the university initiatives to create new foundations, it was also necessary to establish a single code of laws. The most important feature of the public interest trust fund is that it can only be based on a public interest purpose which the bill qualifies as a public service mission of the Foundation. The bill names 32 foundations of public interest, founded by the State and two with the participation of the State as the founder of the accession. In a total of 21 cases, foundations also function as maintainers of higher education institutions. The bill allows the creation of a specific form of foundation, which also carries out asset management in order to carry out the public tasks set out in this bill, i.e. we do what we have promised, strengthening the financial autonomy of higher education. Dear Parliament, The bill states that the Foundation performs the public tasks of higher education through a publicly recognised higher education institution in its maintenance and ownership. The law strengthens the organisational, financial, employee and educational research autonomy of universities. For the sake of mutually beneficial, balanced cooperation, the Senate may delegate a member to the Supervisory Board of the Maintenance Foundation in the future, and the governing body of the University may exercise the right of opinion on the decisions of the Foundation Board concerning the institution. The regulatory proposal ensures uniform public health management over the clinical centres of universities in medical and health sciences, and continues to guarantee the professional excellence of clinical patient care by strengthening the triple unit of health education, research and patient care, and further improving the competitiveness of medical and health education and research. If the Foundation does not finance the performance of the public service mission exclusively from its asset management activities, but has also concluded a public service contract with the State, the State and the Foundation shall link the two organisations with a long-term strategic framework agreement for a period of at least 15 years, with a maximum of 25 years, and with a financing contract of 3-5 years. Dear Parliament, Another important rule is that the Foundation can manage its assets freely in compliance with the requirement of responsible management, but this must be within the limits of public service provision and therefore have a stricter framework than other types of foundations. It is also important to point out that, in the same way, the Foundation can only be operated by significant assets and capital forces to trust foundations. This is also necessary for the quality and smooth performance of the public task entrusted to him. The bill requires the Foundation to draw up an investment policy in which the basic rules for the management and use of the Foundation's property must be laid down. However, it is important to point out that education-related assets belong to the university and that other assets are to the foundation, so these two activities are divided into two. The founder, in this case the State, may impose additional conditions in the application of the assets, so that it may provide for restrictions on the free management of certain assets which fall within the scope of the management of assets, so that it may provide for the right of pre-emption or the right to offer a purchase in the case of the assets transferred. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the clear initiative of the Senates of universities, the number of model-shifting universities is increasing. From September, nearly 70 percent of students are expected to gain their knowledge in institutions operating according to the new model. So far, Parliament has decided to change the model of ten higher education institutions. In the legislative proposals before you, we propose a change of model for another ten institutions, the establishment of a new university and the replacement of a university. I would like to point out that, contrary to the harsh statements made by the left, the government is acting with respect to the decisions of universities, only where universities have asked for it, and more so where it has been initiated. Dear Parliament, Since the maintenance of model-changing institutions will be carried out in the future by foundations, we will also provide a public contribution to the maintenance and development of the institutions, and we will propose a similar level of asset allocation for each institution. There will continue to be student normative, which will ensure that the costs of education are covered. In addition, the institutions will receive two additional grants for operation, i.e. the maintenance of buildings and the financing of scientific research activities. They are all provided according to incentive and quality parameters, thus reducing drop-out or improving research effectiveness and infrastructure utilisation. Dear Parliament, The legislative proposals before you also propose the creation of public-interest trust foundations with additional public tasks. The purpose of the establishment of the Makovecz Campus Foundation is to create the Collegium Professor Hungarorum and the Piliscsaba College, to develop educational, health and social compulsory sector training courses, and to support those involved in further training. [[9.30]] In addition, its primary objective is to protect the buildings of the Campus in Piliscsaba for the purpose of safeguarding, preserving, scientific and social tasks that strengthen national identity and belonging. Land, forests and water resources, indigenous plant and animal species, national and local traditions and cultural values are the common heritage of all of us, whose protection, enhancement and transfer to future generations is the duty of the state and all Hungarians. The aim of the Future Generation Land Foundation is to carry out all these public tasks, preserve and transfer the agricultural and forestry land managed by the property for future generations, in conjunction with Ménesbirtok Zrt. exercise of its trust rights. By promoting the development of sample and academic economies, it achieves the institutional development goals of secondary and higher agricultural education, supports the infrastructure development of agricultural education, strengthens and develops its economic, social and international relations. The purpose of the Foundation is also to preserve the genetic value of protected native Hungarian horse breeds. The aim of the Hungarian Culture Foundation is to perform the cultural strategy tasks, the Petőfi Literary Museum and the Petőfi Literary Agency Nonprofit Kft. the establishment of a cultural agency for cultural management and distribution on its basis. The purpose of the Hauszmann Foundation is to preserve significant historical, cultural, architectural values and traditions, to implement the educational, research and documentation knowledge centre and experience center of traditional, beautiful crafts, and to create the Hauszmann Memorial House. The aim of the MOL New Europe Foundation is to support children and young people in the fields of talent management, sport, art and science, and talent management. It will also provide support for economic development programmes, environmental and climate protection, sustainability activities and research in the future. Dear Parliament, Higher education doesn't exist for itself, it does. It creates students with knowledge for the nation who increase our country with internationally accepted, competitive expertise. In order for Hungarian higher education to be more competitive, it is necessary to involve new partners and to change attitudes. To do so, we want to create the necessary framework with the legislative proposals presented. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-09-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, we must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-Presidents Brenner Koloman and István Hiller have indicated their wish to speak in the general debate. Under the rule of law, if the Vice-President's representatives speak, he may lead the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament has agreed to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to allow Mr Brenner Koloman and Vice-President István Hiller to hold the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has agreed to accept my motion. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that, since the debate is linked and is expected to be long, the chairman may order a short recess on demand. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position, Mr László Pósán and Mr Győző Vinnai. I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán first. The time frame is 30 minutes; please manage this. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The legislative proposals that are the subject of today's joint general debate are essentially the T/15710 on trust foundations with a public service mission. They are linked to the number 1 proposal, as are several passes of the bill on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws. This is obviously the reason why this is a joint general debate. By means of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, the constitutionalist expresses the outstanding social value-building role of the public-service trust fund. Public-service trust foundations shall ensure the achievement of public-interest objectives, which are of particular importance to society, in the form of private law independent of the current government. Therefore, these laws play a prominent role in the Hungarian legal system and thus the long-term stability of their operation is a requirement arising from the constitutional principle of legal certainty. Foundations created or to be set up by the government can simultaneously adapt to changes in social, economic and cultural life and ensure the required level of public service. Foundations shall operate independently from the current government in terms of organisational, financial and operational terms. They must not abandon the public task of pursuing the objective of public interest. A significant proportion of the legislative proposals submitted relate to public-service trust foundations that are linked to the maintenance change of some Hungarian higher education institution, so-called model change. These proposals serve the achievement of Hungary's strategic goals, strengthening its competitiveness, and sustainable growth of its economy, and are associated with the aim of developing higher education on a historical scale and related resources. The aim of higher education is to develop an institutional system that is more open to the needs of the economy on the basis of domestic knowledge, innovation and talent, which works more effectively with companies. The program of the university's maintenance model change offers a historical chance for Hungary to become one of the winners of the future. As the Secretary of State indicated, the change of model did not come out of nowhere. As early as 2016, the government adopted the programme "Training in Higher Education" in which it published and gave a broad debate on the direction it wants to develop higher education by 2030 and how it wants to establish a much closer relationship between business and higher education. This programme was welcomed at the time by the left, and it was seen as a forward-looking programme. Please refer to the minutes of the committee meetings at that time. Anyone who thought a little bit about this issue had to be obvious even when it was possible to have a closer relationship between universities and the corporate world only if we could bring together legal regulators that determine their daily functioning. The directions formed by consensus or consensus have therefore been known for four years. In the spring of 2018 was produced a hundreds of pages,. The study entitled The Enabling of the Hungarian Knowledge Industry in the 20th century, which, by analysing the international and domestic situation, outlines the possible directions for the operational model change, and in 2020, a summary work was carried out, an overview of the operating models of the world's leading universities, the international practice of funding higher education, especially performance contracts and indicators. In order for higher education to become an important driver of the domestic economy, it is necessary to make changes in quality and performance that are more open to the needs of the economy, more closely and effectively in cooperation with companies. For this purpose, in autumn 2020, the Parliament adopted the foundations for the new performance-based funding system of higher education institutions, which will enter into force from 1 September 2021. In the case of model-shifting institutions, the government enters into a long-term strategic agreement with the maintenance fund for a period of 15-25 years, including financing contracts of 3-5 years. [[9.40]] In these, it will order the provision of education, training, research and other public tasks, special regional or third mission tasks. Since the change of regime, the quality and performance principle has been best applied in Hungarian higher education only in the light of the number of qualified instructors, and other aspects have been much smaller and smaller. In the future, we think that more emphasis should be placed on indicators such as first correct application, recruitment and registration rates, early exit parameters; the execution rate, obviously weighted by the number of semesters; the number of foreign students should be taken into account, the degree of student mobility, the extent and extent of foreign training, cooperation, international scientific research cooperation, patents, scientific exploitation and dissemination of research results, external, i.e. industrial, tender and other resources, place in international rankings, teaching and student rates, corporate cooperation. These are all indicators that will encourage institutions and teachers and researchers working in institutions to increase performance. In addition to the change of model, it is also necessary to renew the training structure. The competitiveness of higher education would be significantly improved by simplifying and accelerating the process of creating new courses and starting existing courses. Just for the record, it's gonna take a decade to create a new major these days. The related changes in the rules are expected to be ready in the spring. It is appropriate to review the number of semesters required, taking into account economic needs, in both basic and master's programmes. I think this is well-known, and everyone knows that, for example, in the field of IT, the extractive effect of the market is so fast and so great that it is, in fact, a miracle in many cases that students will be finished with initial education and smoked much earlier. And in master's school, IT is rare as a white raven; and we didn't even talk about doctoral training. This review will also take place in spring 2021. It is appropriate to renew the training and output requirements so that Hungarian higher education can become more practice-oriented. During the first half of 2021, on the regulatory side of the training area, all steps will be taken to strengthen the competitiveness of higher education, so that from September 2022 a renewed, more focused, more competitive training will be launched to better meet practical needs. In the context of the change of model, it is important that the university acquires the assets and related intangible assets of the state-owned property currently managed by the university for the purpose of carrying out the basic activity as a public service mission as a free asset allocation. This is not unprecedented either, but I would just like to point out that in 2007 the same thing happened to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and the property was acquired. The Public Finance Act currently has a strict framework for the functioning of universities, and today there are basically the same rules applicable to higher education institutions, such as government agencies, even though universities operate on the market, in the knowledge industry market, in this sense competition organisations move in competitive conditions, not only internal but also international competition, and let us add that today a large university, a large university with many arms such as Pécs, Szeged and the University of Debrecen are essentially complex and complex systems that are equal to the complexity of a multinational company. Obviously, these are not just these, but we also need special regulations for the others, and in the last decade and a half, there have been initiatives to make their operation more efficient. But with these earlier initiatives, although they recognised the problem, this must be acknowledged, it was not possible to move forward during previous governments as well. So we had to find a new way, and that's what the current proposals are essentially for. In the current regulatory environment, the majority of Hungarian higher education institutions have reached the wall figuratively, and there is no possibility of moving forward from here, within this framework. The market use of university research has been very low in recent decades, and in view of the potential of a university's knowledge base, research capacity and spectrum, it is not particularly high today, even though it is the 21st. In the first century, knowledge-intensive innovations are the driving force behind the economic development of each country. At several universities today, research and market exploitation of knowledge are increasingly focusing, which is very right, but this is accompanied by the fact that some higher education institutions are already in the difficult conditions of the current regulation, but are also trying to be present in some way on the market. This is mostly reflected in the ownership or ownership of certain companies. For example, the University of Debrecen currently has 34 companies, of which 15 are majority owners. As a result, it is already able to involve external funding, but it is incredibly difficult to operate these companies with different rules on university, university-owned companies and market partners. The University of Debrecen, the University of Pécs, the University of Szeged, SOTE, or the university committed to changing models, can be said to be in a kind of starting state now, each would be able to do much more if it could free up energies and potentials that are currently forced or blocked. Universities can do a lot for the development of a region, for the growth of its economy. This can already be seen in a number of areas, such as Debrecen and Szeged and Pécs, the university is a key factor in the economic life of these cities, in attracting foreign companies and investors. As a representative of Debrecen, I am obviously in possession of information from Debrecen, and it is safe to say that those large companies in Debrecen, either the National Instruments or the Krones or the BMW, which have appeared in the region in recent years as a kind of emblematic investor, would not have come if there had been no university, no knowledge base and no training spectrum. But it also shows that further progress must also be made in the world of universities. So far, ten university maintenance models have been decided. The current legislative proposals initiate the transformation of the leading bodies of universities, the Senates, for an additional 11 universities. It is worth taking a brief look at the numbers. Secretary of State has said that the Senate support this everywhere. Well, we see the following proportions when we look at the minutes: on January 21, 2021, the Senate of the University of Debrecen voted for the change of model with 65 yes, zero no and three abstentions. The University of Dunaújváros five days later: 13 yes, zero no, zero stay, so it is unanimous. For SOTE 41 yes, zero no, 1 stay. 29 yes, 9 no, 1 stay at Pécs University. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] Two thirds, Congressman Mellar. At the University of Szeged 29 yes, 16 no, 3 abstentions, 55 percent. [[Intercom from the opposition: Blackmail! Dr. Tamás Mellar: That's right!]] University of Óbuda 24 yes, zero no, zero stay. The Senate of Eszterházy Károly University in Eger unanimously decided that the university should be reserved for the Eger County. At the University of Nyíregyháza the Senate voted 16 yes, 1 no, zero abstentions. 17 yes, 1 no, zero stay at the Budapest University of Economics. Hungarian University of Dance: 9 yes, 1 no, 4 stays. University of Physical Education: 18 yes, zero no, 2 stays. So everywhere, there is a convincing Senate majority behind the initiatives aimed at asking for a maintenance change at these universities. [[9.50]] This, therefore, can be said to be seen as the practice of university autonomy in such a serious specific case. It was also said that the proportion of students and educators who will study and work together in institutions that have already changed maintenance and are now changing compared to the total number of teachers. This would mean some 180,000 students, over 40,000 employees in the model-shifting institutions, 60 510 students in the state and 8931 employees in the state universities as well. With the change of model, the autonomy and financial autonomy of universities will be strengthened, as the Secretary of State has already said, especially from the side of wealth. Its organisational autonomy is also strengthened because universities have a wide range of internal organisational structures and forms of operation. This must, of course, be recorded in the articles of association. For example, organizational operations will be ensured with President, Chancellor, Economic Director-General, which university considers this to be appropriate for itself. It was also said that the Senate would delegate a member to the board of directors of the foundation. Just to appreciate the importance of this, I would like to note that the Ministry is currently the maintainer. I've never seen an example of senates from universities being able to delegate to the ministry. The autonomy of education research is guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. So far, the ministries exercising maintenance rights, depending on which governments they were, were under different names, so the ministries exercising maintenance rights were basically only related to universities in an official manner, according to general rules, representing the sectoral strategy of the respective governments, and could not represent institutional goals. This is, by the nature of the matter, and I do not say this as a criticism, in the given situation, when the possibility of greater movement would be to embrace the specific possibilities of individual institutions, obviously a framework that is more of a barrier than a promoter. Curatorials will also be able to represent strategies related to the institutions, strategies that require a time span of more than 3-5 years, in addition to the often changing university leaders every 3-5 years. I would just like to remind you that the start of a number of courses, whichever university we take, has taken several years and still takes several years to establish a new course. During the change of model, universities that have chosen to do so will benefit from any public wage increase, as will the state-reserved institutions, as well as universities that will continue to be holders of tender funding with an aid intensity of up to 100% in the performance of public tasks. In the case of universities maintained by public trust funds in medical and health sciences, the submitted fundamental law sets out the situation of clinical centres, that they are part of domestic patient care, public health, and that healthcare workers remain in the healthcare service and associated wage financing. By changing the model, the State does not withdraw from the funding of these institutions, but becomes a client of the public service mission of higher education, both through long-term strategic contracts and through shorter-term financing contracts. In addition, the State guarantees twice a 15% increase in wages. Hungarian higher education thus becomes a four-tier system. There will be public universities, universities of public interest, ecclesiastical and private universities. Seven of the top ten universities in the world operate in the form of similar foundations, but even in the case of Oxford and Cambridge, which are legally state-class in England, there is financing and maintenance significant wealth behind them. Oxford, for example, has an investment fund managing £4 billion. The Minister shall appoint the Chairman and the Members of the Board of Boards of Public Trust Foundations with a public service mission. On behalf of the Secretary of State, and I think that these aspects can be fully reflected in the need for a maintenance body that strengthens competitiveness, i.e. the chairman and members of the Board of Governors should be persons who have significant scientific, practical authority and experience in the field of education and research at the University, i.e. the academic sphere, or those who are well aware of the economic, social life and relations of the region in question, or local and national public actors who are related to universities. In many universities around the world, it is common practice to raise a similar issue of the maintenance body. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned Yale, here he is a member of the board of directors of the governor of the state. In California, San Francisco, in the case of Berkeley University, members of the Regent Board are appointed by the Governor. Member of the Humboldt University Board of Trustees is the mayor of Berlin. In the event of the adoption of the legislative package, more than 180,000 students, nearly 70 percent of university students, will be able to study in the new model from autumn this year. The impact on society, I would just like to say one number: according to this year's application data, young people were not unsure, but seem to have had an incentive effect, 10,000 more people filed applications than last year. I would like to mention only one of the foundations for the performance of public tasks with half a sentence in connection with the proposal for the establishment of the Hungarian Culture Foundation, this is the Petőfi Literature Agency. I consider the justification of this to be very important, because so far, in the field of culture, state aid policy practice has for decades essentially appeared to have ended there in the majority of cases, the creation of different cultural productions, works, exhibitions, and so on, but it has been less relevant to how all of this reaches the recipients, the people. This type of change is designed to avoid the end of this particular public service provision, to create productions, but also to use them in a subpoena. Once born, it should be beneficial to society in some way. With all due respect, I would like to ask the House's fractions to support the proposed legislative proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-09-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. The second speaker was Mr Vinnai Győző, who had a time frame of 7 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll do my best. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me first put a few thoughts on education and higher education in this consolidated bill. It was said that this quality has always been important. For me, for us, for our community, yes, because in 2012, a process started, then in 2016, it continued with a change of grades, in 2017 with an action plan, and in recent years significant events have occurred, which now allow for this change of model. Education, higher education and the acquisition of a high level of knowledge are one of the most important aspects of the 21st century. In the century. We have heard that the future of higher education or the future of universities is the future of Hungary. I would push this sentence by saying that the useful knowledge acquired by young people is also important, because young people are the future, they can put Hungary on this strategic map, on the strategic map of the world. Let us not forget that 150 years ago, when the Royal József Nádor University of 1871-72, the predecessor of today's University of Arts, began to function, which was already in the 18th century. At the end of the century II. It was founded during Joseph's time, the first institution to use the word "university" in his name. Let us not forget the importance of university quality work in difficult times. See the time of 100 years ago, the University of Pécs was founded in 1921, of course during Lajos Nagy in 1367, but he is in fact the successor of the University of Bratislava in 1912, and the University of Cluj was transferred to Szeged. So the quality of universities is very important. [[10.00]] If I can subpoena Kuno Klebelsberg as a researcher of his policy of education, he said he liked to go through the issues of higher education, there is a need for public education, but it is higher education that can determine the country's economy, the country's future. I would add that if the individual acquires knowledge in universities, it is good not only for him, not only for one individual, but also for his community to succeed, or a settlement from which he comes, or practically for a larger community, let me use this term, the nation can also be successful. Let us ask why a change of model is necessary, what makes the new maintenance foundation structure more effective. First of all, in headlines, what has happened in the last 3-4 years, which means the renewal of higher education. Campus development has started, the replacement of PPPs, a new research funding system, higher education has become involved in dual training, so the business, the economic world and higher education have already met if this does not go smoothly, after the change of model we expect him to do so, the doctoral training has been completely renewed, and the concentration of development policy has also appeared. As my colleague László Pósán said, competitiveness needs to be improved. High-quality education and high-value R &amp; D and research and development should be established. In short, we must strive for quality. We need a performance-language, practice-oriented university sphere that cooperates more effectively with companies and companies, one that builds on the experience of previous years and decades. Let me give you an example. I have been teaching at the University of Nyíregyháza for more than three and a half decades, and for example, model change can be used for teacher training. Teacher training, which has had a strong tradition, since it was founded for this reason; either economics training or technical training, as there is agricultural training, aviation engineering training, which is, I can say, not only gained news in Hungary, but is also world-famous, as the training of so-called pilots is also taking place there. So, in short, we need a model change to create a dynamic structure instead of a clotted structure. This means that we can connect to this competitive, performance-oriented higher education at a global level. For example, under the leadership of a good teacher, schools can be formed now, but teacher-student relations can be transformed, the state becomes a customer, the universities acquire wealth and property, so they can manage it themselves. So, from what I can see, that's the whole point of a model change. This new dynamic structure, which allows for the efficient use of grants, creates a more flexible legal environment for workers and trainers, offers the opportunity to support research, the free movement of instructors, and I note quietly, as we have heard from László Pósán that this motivation, we hope, will mean better material and moral appreciation. Allow me to say briefly on two issues, I may still have a minute, since we have already heard the 15-20-year framework contracts and the 3-5-year individual medium-term financing agreements, so that we expect them to be expectations, there will be defined output systems for training. I would just like to point out one thing: that there will be three key players in this new system: the state, which we will see as a customer and will represent social needs and interests; the board of trustees, which will also reflect strategic thinking and business aspects, in my opinion, the needs of the economy; and the Senate itself, which represents a high level of education and research in universities, and the freedom and autonomy of education. In my opinion, it is necessary to strike a balance, and neither can grow on the other's head. Ladies and gentlemen, With the change of model, therefore, less bureaucratic rules, more freedom of teaching [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] accountable performance and quality work can be achieved. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-09-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Unfortunately, that's the time frame. Dear House, The keynote speech of the Jobbik Group will follow. The Jobbik Group has also indicated that the Group's position will be presented by two of its Members, Member György Szilágyi and Vice-President Brenner Koloman. First, I will address Congressman György Szilágyi, and he will speak from here, from the platform. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed laws are another step in the model change process that aims at privateising state-owned higher education institutions, privatizing the word in the pejorative sense. The process started with the restructuring of Corvinus University in 2019 and continued with the restructuring of seven other universities in 2020. The experience of the change of model so far is rather depressing, which is why, based on the few and rather negative experiences of the last few years, Mr Orbán is so violent, why he wants to force these operational frameworks on the institutions. Analysis of the causes leads far, both in university professional circles and in the press, to various explanations. The most popular of these are the theories that the whole transformation takes place so that the distorted opinion of Viktor Orbán about the world and his country is not willing to be accepted and jayed by prestigious leading universities, especially ELTE and BME, and that the thoughts of the greatest Hungarian opinion leader, directed by the kinder institutions of Viktor Orbán, primarily rural institutions, political commissar supporters dressed in the form of foundations, will be heard without criticism. For this purpose, the foundation maintainer provides the institutions with additional resources that the long-standing, but stubbornly critical, universities in Budapest cannot dream of. This discriminatory financing model created by the government can already cause serious distortions in higher education in the short term. The representatives and supporters of the government are keen to refer to successful examples of foundationalisation abroad and to the increase in the autonomy of universities through this transformation. These statements are false, honourable Members. A specific example of this is the ongoing process of rectoring at Corvinus. The invitation to tender is open and clear to all. The material submitted by the applicants is merely an opinion of the professional management of the university, and then the curatorium, headed by Zsolt Hernádi MOL leader, decides. The Board of Governors shall not be obliged to explain its decision to anyone, it may take its decision independently of the opinions received. Indeed, there are foreign examples, mainly Finnish examples, in which state universities have been outsourced to foundations, but they are significantly different from the Hungarian model. The Senates of Finnish Foundation universities have serious permissions in all matters concerning the university, including the selection of members of the Board, and we cannot discuss this in the case of Hungarian Foundation universities. The current government proposal seeks to reduce and influence the autonomy of the university, as opposed to the original Finnish model. There is nothing more evidence of this than the fact that the Finnish model has been excluded by law from the possibility of representatives of the Finnish State taking part in the administration, while in our country the managing actors are active politicians or politically appointed state leaders. [[10.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is not that we do not see the problems of higher education, the problems of financing or the problems of efficiency. There is no question that measures are needed to increase the quality of higher education and to increase its international recognition. The establishment and maintenance of a high-quality higher education system is a real national interest. Over the last 11 years, Fidesz governments have tried to overcome the problems of higher education in several ways. In particular, they sought to remedy financing and operational problems with the introduction of the Chancellor's system, which was about putting a chancellor in the neck of the university leadership, considered unreliable and wasteful by political leadership. Even then, the Chancellors were primarily politically appointed, who, through economic decisions, had a significant impact on the functioning of the university. During the existence of the system, the number of scandals has increased, but the problems have not been resolved, the funding of higher education has not become cheaper, the international recognition of its institutions has not increased, its attendance has not increased. We can conclude that Fidesz governments have not been able to operate a complex and complex system of higher education and solve problems since these three cycles. It was not because there was no intention to solve the problems or at least alleviate them. No. For all intents and purposes, higher education is where it is now. The three Fidesz governments were simply incapable of solving the problems. The first layer of incompetence is inadequacy to dialogue and intelligent communication. Governments have not been able to develop ways and forms of cooperation with the institutions. They were just dictated and demanded of them. The governments did not listen to the arguments of the university experts, primarily because they denied the revelations of Viktor Orbán, the chief Hungarian leader of opinion, and his delusions of fever, and they were thorns under my fingernails. They also proved inadequate in making the operation of the existing institutions more efficient, as the chancellor system set up for this purpose was more like a commissar system, which was not used by the government to help universities, but rather to bridle them. Of all the problems I would like to point out now that, instead of professional leadership, the government is almost exclusively in university matters with Chancellors, not under the autonomous leadership of the university, thus violating one of the most fundamental values, university autonomy, however you try to deny it. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's not true!]] And the best evidence of their incompetence lies before us: they want to play higher education into the hands of political appointees in the form of foundations, subtracting it from the system of performing state tasks. In order to justify the proposal before us, it was argued that, in the interests of competitive operation, it is necessary to exclude institutions in foundation maintenance from the scope of the Public Finance Act and the Public Procurement Act. By doing so, they practically acknowledge that these rules constitute a shackles that make it impossible to operate. I ask you, who built these bureaucratic rules? Who built these bureaucratic obstacles? Is it Brussels? Maybe the migrants? Or maybe George Soros is himself? No, ladies and gentlemen, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You, you have made the bureaucratic system, which has been classified as unlivable, unlivable, in the last 11 years, built up by the Fidesz government. These rules not only make the lives of universities, but also the lives of some players in the public sector miserable. They make it impossible, in many cases impenetrable and untraceable. Viktor Orbán now wishes to withdraw from this system the institutions that he is pleased with by the creation of foundational maintainers, which are currently primarily universities, but may also be other institutions on the basis of the bill. With the intended step, they kill two birds with one stone. On the one hand, the university sector is divided into well-paid and underfunded, which will make the real problems quiet, and on the other hand, they will transfer significant public wealth and national wealth into pockets that the state will no longer have any insight or influence. Foundational solutions are preferred by Fidesz governments to be used for the purpose of, through them, knowing that they will lose the public money. The money the state has collected from the public in the form of taxes to finance the public task. I do not want to engage in legal proceedings, because the text of the laws, even the basic law of the Szájer-based granite-solidity, is being shaped by the governing parties on the basis of their own convenience, their momentary economic interests, but on the basis of common sense and good morals, I say only that, my fellow members of the government, should be ashamed of themselves. Shame on you for putting such laws here. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Do you speak? The president's ringing the bell.]] The proposed legislation is neither in the interests of higher education nor in the interests of the institutions concerned, nor in the interests of the efficient exploitation of national assets. It's not the first time, but it's probably not the last time you're prepared to fail in 22. Why else would it be important for you to protect the property that has been saved in foundations at this level? Overall, I think that in this serious situation, which requires the lives of thousands of our countrymen, you are not abandoning the practice that you have had over ten years in which you are unfortunately consistent: you are not ruling for the common good, you are just looking at how to legalize what would otherwise simply be a public theft in accordance with a normal legal order; and how you can ensure yourself for the soon-to-be period when you are no longer a government, but a plague. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Highlands of Gyurcsány! The president's ringing the bell.]] My fellow Member, Dr Brenner Koloman, will continue the speech of the lead speaker of Jobbik, but I can promise you, however you rebel in this regard, that his sentences will not be pleased by my fellow Members with fidesz. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-09-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Hoppál, make sure that your colleague does not come into the Chamber, because he has no right to do so. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Excuse me.]] Thank you. This is Vice President Brenner Koloman. Here you go.
u2021-04-09-9	Thank you so much for the floor. Mr President, And thank you for ordering Comrade Hoppál to attend the Hungarian Parliament. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame on you!]] You're not at home at the pub. Thank you very much. It is a major decision to change the way universities operate, which will determine the future of Hungary for decades, so it is necessary to take the time to develop it. The decisions must involve stakeholders in the preparatory debates, and academic autonomy must be respected in and after the decisions. Inform the public and ensure social control. High-quality universities that refrain from transformation should not be disadvantaged. This is the end of the quote, the resolution of the presidency of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences by unanimous decision. The People's Party Jobbik is the 21st. Modern Conservative Party of the Century [[Lőrinc Nacsa and István Hollik laugh.]] He considers education and the university world a key strategic sector because we know that only knowledge ensures the well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens. In the century, and knowledge can be acquired in universities and in scientific research places, there is also a pedagogical training that can then pass on this knowledge to a wide range of society. [[10.20]] In addition, I continue to quote from the resolution of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, scientific freedom and university autonomy are one of the cornerstones of European cultural heritage. It's a true conservative value. It is a true conservative value, and I, as the rapporteur of the Council of Europe for university autonomy and university freedom, also stand on the international stage. In addition, we must point out that your eleven-year-old reunion, no, Mr. Secretary of State, did not start with the change of degrees, and then you just carried it out, but I remember it well because at that time I was a responsible university leader, that you wanted to unleash self-sufficient higher education into the Hungarian university world, and you wanted to eliminate almost all the state-supported places. And now you're coming here... let me tell you, where is Minister Palkovics? I understand that now István Stumpf, former Minister, one of the old representatives of the long-lost civil flag, had to be brought here to save the honour of the mundane that cannot be saved, but where is the Minister? And it's not that I don't accept, let's just say, the Secretary of State Schanda, acting as the anointing executioner, but it's strange that there is no minister of responsibility here, while 70 percent of the Hungarian university world is suddenly changed! And not in the way that the MTA's resolution demands that I highlight Szeged in a serious debate, in a detailed discussion, but, let us say, the University of Szeged because I obtained a degree there with a very controversial Senate decision just to vote for this proposal. By quoting from a colleague's letter the most serious crisis of confidence in the history of the University of Szeged today: arms facing each other, arms facing their own Senate representatives. You caused this! You! No one else! You have the two-thirds responsibility for 11 years, and you dare to stand here and say in your exposé, Mr. Secretary of State, that this is a dwarf minority who is not satisfied here, and we have even done this once on one issue, and they dare to refer to the fact that universities themselves are practically asking for a change of model. Of course. You know the Örkény-one minute; I will not quote once again that László Rajk, the old warrior of the party, was executed at his own request. In addition, let's face it that this whole process takes place at a time when this is a long process that begins with the fact that you have recently turned the entire research world upside down by outsourcing the research network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. As a reporter myself, I have discussed the situation in detail with both the former President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, President Lovász and President Freund, and I must say that it would have been better to listen to them and not to follow your power policy and the very clear political goals of the other lead speaker of Jobbik. After all, there has been no presentation of the opinions of instructors and students and university citizens. If someone looks at the appt that was taken everywhere; I mean, I mean, I understand that this looks good on management pages, but a serious college leader doesn't see any kind of impact assessment, no underlying content other than threatening them that there will be money and development if they say yes. Not simple instructors in quotes, but heads of department practically experienced these processes as a lightning strike out of the sky. Then, of course, the Rector of the University of Debrecen, let's say, publicly Communists those who disagree. I'm sorry, university autonomy has been a very conservative value since the Middle Ages. If a man raises his voice against this, Mr. Secretary of State, [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] That's not left-wing. It is also important that you constantly and in this proposal emphasise that this will increase the autonomy of universities. No, my fellow Members of the Fidesz [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] The autonomy of the board is increasing. So, you really think that because István Stumpf has visited rectors now and promised them that, as a god, they are no longer active ministers, and Csányi bank leader at the University of Sopron, and absolutely clear political appointees will be placed in the Curatorium, but at the universities, for example, we are willing to approve the proposal of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and to delegate such a person to the Curatorium, say, an eye itself...? So, seriously, a real civil and conservative person like Stumpf's colleague, how do you put your name on that? So, seriously, no. This must be regulated by law in a bill, which is why I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support our tabled amendment on the fact that the university's elected leaders should be included in this board of directors ex officio, i.e. by virtue of their office. Of course, I have no greater illusion that beyond their own arrogance of power they would see anything else in the Hungarian university world. However, excellent suggestions have been put on the table by my colleagues at the university, for example: two thirds of the board should be elected by the Senate; or the chairman of the board should be elected by consensus between the Senate and the competent ministry. So there have been a lot of elaborate amendments from the university leaders, either by the way, or from our colleagues, which you do not respond to. You transferred everything from edge and strength, and then you said that the Senates of the university asked for it voluntarily, and here we are, that on a Friday in a united debate, the result will be that 70 percent of the Hungarian university world will be in a form that does not provide any assurance as to what these curators will decide. There has been insufficient communication with the citizenship of universities, and the benefits I hear here are inconclusive. Competitiveness, of course, competitiveness! What are the indicators? I'd say that. What is the indicator of competitiveness? The fact that we produce screwed or braked, while we are at the Minister's, can be defined there, but in classic philology it is a little unclear; of course, scientific references and others can be improved, obviously. At the same time, I think that such a change of model is much more serious and complex than to implement it at such a pace, without coordination and against the will of university citizens, since autonomy is sustainable in the case of state-reserved institutions and competitiveness. With all due respect, we should have given proper funding to the Hungarian university world. For example, public universities should have been excluded from the scope of the Public Procurement Act so that they would not have to, let's say, if ELTE had acquired matches, they would have issued public procurement; because this is, at present, true. So I think that the bureaucratic obstacles to which you refer are not the only way to remedy them is through the foundation form. Once again, I have stated in every speech by the lead speaker that I have a problem not with the form of foundation, but that it has been unleashed on it in a way that, except for the five universities, if I say it correctly, or that it has six effects on the entire Hungarian university world, that the university citizens concerned do not know what this will mean for them. They couldn't interfere in their own destiny. But I have some good news. We hope that the National Unity Government, in which both right- and left-wing parties participate, will review this whole process in 2022, as we can see that there is a great demand for this in the Hungarian university world. Let's face it, for example, the fact that my colleagues are losing their relationship with the public is a concern for many people, since they see what is happening in the other areas where you have already done so. And I'm sorry, and the fact that they put it in this PowerPoint is that twice a 15-percent raise, just don't be mad at me, so it's really a spit-out for university citizens and educators. So based on the fact that, yeah, you're only going to get a raise if you say yes, so, seriously, that's what they look at the Hungarian science and the Hungarian university world? Seriously, is that what you're looking at? You really should be ashamed of yourselves. The decision that we are now making will determine the learning, education and research opportunities of generations, so our decision is historic; before the judgment seat of history, you will receive an insufficency center rating, but I hope that in a year's time we will be able to re-examine these decisions. Of course, the Jobbik fraction cannot support this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[10.30]]
u2021-04-09-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, who will give his speech here on the platform. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. If we wanted to be very short, we could settle this bill with so much that if you stand up for the autonomy of universities, as you often say, if you listen and trust the Senates, as you often say, you will accept the decision of the Senates of universities, vote in favour of the bill, there is nothing to see here. That is not what is happening, my fellow Members, because you are ignoring and wanting to overwrite the decision of the Senates of universities. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] You want to attack the decision of the Senate of universities, and you want to undermine the autonomy of universities. They will not be allowed to allow an elected Senate to decide in what direction it intends to further develop its international relations system, its professional knowledge base, its relationship with students, and how it intends to move up and up in international rankings. So you spit on the Senates of universities, and they say that this is not a good decision for their decisions. From here on in your parliamentary seats, you tell the Senate of universities that they made the wrong choice, in many places unanimously, in many places with two-thirds and more than half majority. So you're telling these people that you made the wrong choice. It's as simple as that. If you were interested in the autonomy of universities and the decision of the Senates of universities, as has been said in numerous such debates over the last two years, then this debate would be a very short debate, and this bill would go through unanimously in the vote due in a few weeks if you remained true to the sentences that have been said here in recent years. The fact is that when we talk about higher education, we have to say and acknowledge the result that has already been shown in recent years. After all, the young people, professionals, engineers, scientists, doctors and countless professionals from the Hungarian universities who contributed to the success of the Hungarian economy after 2012, which also marked the record year 2019, the record year before the coronal virus epidemic, the economic success of which was also contributed by students from the Hungarian universities. I think it is a huge success, let us not ignore the fact that we have such quality training at our Hungarian universities, which is capable of such economic performance in the country, by the way, that economic growth in Hungary was double the average of the European Union, that there was a record level of investment, and so on, you know that. Since 2010, the national Christian Democratic Government aims to build an efficient, competitive national higher education system, which is marketable, modern, XXI. It provides a century-old, usable and real knowledge and gives an exercise in addition to the degree. In the last decade, thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy, more resources and more attention were also focused on the Hungarian higher education system. Several new university campuses, colleges have been built or renewed in the last ten years, and employers are lining up for students from Hungarian universities. The rapid shift in the global economy in recent years, the new digital industrial revolution ahead of us, has demonstrated the need for a model change in order to ensure the future competitiveness of higher education. As a result of the government's strategy for higher education in 2016, in recent years there has been a great deal of development and government support for the modernisation of Hungarian higher education. In recent years, the development of a research funding system for universities has been completed, higher dual education has been strengthened and the education structure of Hungarian universities in the Carpathian Basin has been established. The system of doctoral training has been completely renewed, during which scholarships and student numbers have been increased in four years of training, and cooperative PhD training has also been launched. The number of foreign students in higher education in Hungary has also increased by 65 percent, compared to 2013. At the same time, international cooperation between Hungarian universities has been significantly expanded and improved. The concentration of higher education development policy has been significant, in which the share of higher education graduates has been increased together by improving the quality and accessibility of higher education, strengthening the relevance of training in the labour market and ensuring the replacement of researchers. In recent years, the process of not only needing as many students as possible, but also of getting more valuable and useful degrees has increasingly been seen. This objective remains unchanged, not in itself the main value of having as many university students as possible, but of the national interest that young people from Hungarian universities can have a valuable and competitive degree in their hands. In recent years, in recent years, Hungarian higher education has achieved a number of valuable results internationally, but our goal is to ensure that Hungarian higher education and the young people involved are the winners of the future. For the sake of more efficient and up-to-date higher education, ten higher education institutions' maintenance rights have so far been transferred to trust foundations, where a market-based, performance-based approach has been given priority instead of a secure but limited framework for public care. Here, for a short time, we can talk about experience. György Szilágyi said that the change of model in universities has been a nasty failure. Unfortunately, the numbers and reality again do not justify György Szilágyi, because if you look at Corvinus University, for example, the university that used to change models most recently, 26 percent more Hungarian young people than the average of the last five years entered Corvinus University first in this year's higher education ranking and this year's admission applications. 26 percent more young people said that yes, he liked it, and he would like to acquire this knowledge here, at the Corvinus University after the change of model, 26 percent more Hungarian youths said that he chose Corvinus University in the first place. This is experience, the first budding success of the model change. You're not offering an alternative here, you're going against a system, you're attacking a system that you think we've tried just for a short time. If you stand here in five, ten, fifteen years and say, I hope, in opposition, because you do it well, the opposition, so keep this role to you, then I say that the criticism is justified, that after five, ten, fifteen years, when you say that if there will be no results, if there will be no success, if there will be no expansion of international cooperation, then you will criticize this system, that the change of model was a mistake. Now they're criticizing a system that has so far brought success in your short-term life, small, promising, beginner successes, failures not yet, we hope that it will remain that way, so you're criticising a system that is now being built without foundation, and you're showing its benefits. In Hungary, the institutions can respond more quickly to economic needs in a relatively new model, which has been successful for a long time in Western Europe, North America and Southeast Asia, and the institutions have a greater opportunity to exploit the market opportunities offered and international cooperation. The legislative proposals before us comply with the change of model initiated by the Senates of universities for an additional 11 universities. At the end of 2020, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, which maintains higher education institutions, asked universities to renew their institutional development plans, in which several universities indicated that they were looking at the possibility of changing models due to more competitive operation. The change of model was decided by the Senate of universities during the months of January, February and March 2021. The Senates of the universities in question therefore supported the change of model by a large majority, which supported the detachment of the University of Debrecen, the University of Dunaújváros, the University of Semmelweis, the University of Óbuda, the University of Physical Education and the Eszterházy Károly University of Eger, which also supported the detachment of Comenius Campus in Sárospataki, from which the University of Tokaj-Hegyalja was established. The model change of several university senates, supported by overwhelming majority, includes the University of Pécs, the University of Szeged, the University of Nyíregyháza, the Budapest University of Economics and the Hungarian University of Dance Arts. The current and recent amendments to the Hungarian higher education system clearly serve the interests of students. The goal is no less than I said before, so that young Hungarians participating in Hungarian higher education can be the winners of the future. [[10.40]] The aim of the higher education reforms is also to ensure that Hungarian universities play a central role in Hungarian research and development and innovation, as well as to make Hungary a regional knowledge centre. I think that the opposition attacks that we have received in recent times, either today or in the context of previous debates, are, on the one hand, a pep talk to each other about university citizenship. When they attack the wealth of universities, so they will have the resources to develop, they will have the resources to build a greater margin of manoeuvre for themselves, they will have the means to invite foreign, prestigious lecturers to invest in domestic innovations in their practical trainings, when we place funds on this through the transfer of wealth, then you will attack it. It is also attacked that in the coming period unprecedented higher education development can be achieved in the value of some HUF 1500 billion. We are talking about huge, incomprehensible amounts of money, the winner of which will be a higher education teacher, a higher education student and a future generation. A number of international examples could be mentioned here, and I looked at the history of Yale University more carefully, also because a church-based university, as a private university, could not be said to be a university with a reputation or not a university with world-famous researchers and educators, a number of American presidents and ministers graduated there; otherwise, ELTE is a church-based university, just the parallel. I think that there could be examples from North America, Western Europe, Southeast Asia that are among the 100 best universities in the world. Why do you want to deny the Hungarian universities the opportunity to catch up to the world's top, to receive that capital, to get that leeway, to get the opportunity to catch up with the best universities in the world, to get young Hungarians out of Hungary with a competitive, high-end degree in their pockets? My fellow Jobbik Members have attacked new resources for higher education. Congressman György Szilágyi also looked down on rural universities because he said that the famous Budapesters and, next to him, the rural universities supported by Viktor Orbán. I also call for this in the name of the faculty and academic citizenship of rural universities to speak with such a voice about rural universities. You say that the current model change is meant to silence government critical opinions, you said something like that, while yesterday you did not stand up for a Hungarian goalie who lost his existence in Germany, who took his opinion. Do you know, Congressman, what terrible debts did universities have? We often do not talk about the amazing debts that universities have accumulated thanks to the regency of governments before 2010, suffocating debts that have spent most of the university's economic management's time trying to manage how they can shift payment deadlines and shift repayments, because there was such a stifling and enormous debt on the shoulders of universities that it could often be at the expense of work and high professional quality work that it was only financial survival that had to be dealt with, there were debts. Mr Mellar, if you are serious about what you say here, then you need to confirm the enormous debts at universities during that period. Jobbik thought of higher education in its 2010 programme other than what we could have heard from representatives of Brenner Koloman and György Szilágyi, then the universities turned into hotbeds for poor mass education, that was the essence of their program, then they thought that even the Bologna system would have been abolished, but it was a hotbed for poor mass education, so they talked about universities at the time. I do not think it is right to talk about Hungarian universities and Hungarian teachers. The fact that Congressman Brenner Koloman is attacking the wage increase and saying how impertinent it is to want a salary increase for the instructors, I think it is very right that the university teachers deserve a raise. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] But then you tell your colleagues, Mr Vice President, to the eye of your colleagues, that you are attacking them for a 15-percent wage increase, and then a 15-percent wage increase. By the way, wage development in universities has continued in recent years. And he answered the question because he said that he didn't think it was possible to measure performance, only in engineering, economics, and in various buffet classes, performance cannot be measured, classic philology was an example here, and then he answered the question himself, because he said that, of course, quality assurance points, international achievements, publications are absolute measurable results, and are also available. But of course, the universities' management knows exactly how to measure the results, how to measure the results in what profession, in which profession, in which department, but basically in high-quality and high-quality training, how to measure progress and results. All in all, I would like to say that your attacks, of course, as we were accustomed to, were of a political nature or an alternative in their speeches, and if we peel off personal injury, for example, in the case of Brenner Koloman, then there were sentences that he did not have a problem with the form of foundation, and there were sentences that, of course, increasing university autonomy is a good thing, and when he says that the autonomy of universities is falling, but that the curatorium of the university is growing, I cannot interpret that. The increase in the autonomy of the Curatorios that maintain universities is directly proportional to the increase in the autonomy of universities, so simple, because the scope of management is increasing and, by the way, it will have the opportunity to expand the scope of international mobility, to receive professional awards, and to issue such high added value degrees as a result of the change of models and the expansion of space, then that is the joint success of the board and everyone in Hungary. It is not just for the curatorium, not only for university citizenship, but the success of Hungary as a whole, if, in the next few years, as a result of the model changes, these universities are able to get up and up on rankings, issue higher-quality degrees, and then more and more Hungarians will find their calculations in possession of this diploma in Hungary, and they will be able to get from one to two, then three, and then five, and together we will be able to contribute to the huge country building of the next decades. This requires a change of model and requires a change of model in accordance with Article XXI. This is why the KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-09-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Two members of the MSZP Group also present the group's position, Vice-President István Hiller and Zita Gurmai. I give the floor first to Vice-President István Hiller, who will speak here on the stand. I'll wait for him to take off his mask. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-13	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Parliament, The success of Hungary is a common cause for all of us, and I believe that we all want this joint success. In order to have a common cause, it is worth confronting positions on strategic issues. Joint success does not mean that we think the same way, but I do not dispute with anyone, a single Hungarian Member, that it is in the best interests of our country. What interests me in the current debate and in the proposed bill, in the legislative proposals, is to serve the cause of Hungary's future success, which has otherwise been included in this. My speech seeks to shed light on various aspects of what I see and what I call success at a strategic distance in higher education, what it serves, what is doubtful, and what I consider to be contrary, because it cannot serve. Therefore, as a first thought, please allow me to talk about whether this conversion attempt, called the change of model, will increase the quality of higher education, the quality of individual institutions, whether Hungarian higher education will be more competitive, whether the named institutions will be more competitive. On this issue, however, it is necessary to highlight the process in which this must come up and, with which it is justified, in many cases I dispute it. [[10.50]] I must say, Honourable Parliament, and here at this point, a respected majority of the ruling parties, that basically the law called the National Higher Education Act adopted in 2011 broke a process that had previously served in a similar manner, with a different tone, but in a similar direction, by successive governments for roughly two decades. It had two basic chapters. From 1990 for about a decade and a half, a necessary quantitative change took place in Hungarian higher education, because Hungarian higher education came to the change of system by issuing the least graduates in Europe after Albania. So the decision to make a quantitative change was the right decision for several universities with more students from successive governments, from the government of József Antall to one of our governments. But it was also possible to see that this quantitative change caused damage to quality, that Hungarian higher education could not maintain the standard that was otherwise expected of it and what it produced, so it was the right decision that after a decade and a half, the political-professional decision to focus now on quality, quality and not quantity, so that the number of students, the university set-up, and the repeated amendment of the Higher Education Act served this purpose. I would like to remind you that the last amendment to the Higher Education Act before 2010 not only created the possibility of creating a relationship between business and higher education, but also directly motivated, encouraged the actors in higher education, encouraged the players in business to join forces: one brings capital and market experience, the other brings knowledge, infrastructure, and the two work together. I have to say to you that your 2011 higher education law interrupted this process, did not acknowledge it, broke up with a two-decade tradition in its concept, and took Hungarian higher education in a particularly wrong direction, it was a professionally weak law, it was wrong. So they were really forced to change direction. Although it took more than half a decade, on which at least the basis of the change of direction was laid, and in a certain way, using the term "change of degree" in a certain way, a certainly high-quality paper and material was put down, in many respects, by us, as well as by me, but in terms of its direction, it was certainly controversial. The question, honourable pro-governments, honourable national secretary of state, is whether the present referral can be derived from the change of degrees adopted by the government. I'm saying no. I'm saying no! I understand that you are trying to establish a link between the strategic direction you have adopted and the law currently tabled, but if you are not looking at the slogans, but at the content, I regret to deny this statement. In either direction or in concrete terms, the document "Training in higher education" does not say that they want to transform Hungarian higher education in a foundation form, or at least the vast majority of it, or even the word "the foundation" mentioned three times: twice in footnotes, pages 15 and 16, and once in the main text, page 34, and not in context. Therefore, I regret to say to you that there is no real conclusion or consequence between the two documents. This current law does not lie before us because you have carried on the material "Training in Higher Education" but because of something else that is worth talking about. Therefore, I must say that the choice of the form of foundation for the vast majority of the institutions of Hungarian higher education is not necessary in order to increase competitiveness and room for manoeuvre, because it is otherwise feasible in state reservations and otherwise feasible in foundation reservations, but therefore, there is no need at all for the transformation that is in front of us in the bill. Similarly, on the issue of quality, I suggest that we look at international examples. Here I have to tell you something: I do not believe that in higher education and in general we have to copy anything; I do not believe that there is a savior, only an independent way. International examples and rankings must be used in so far as we appreciate and see the importance of these, but there is no need to over-mistify, but at the same time it gives us a kind of clue in relation to our own higher education and international higher education. I want the institutions of Hungarian higher education to be in the best possible place in this order; this is not what I expect the solution to be, but I do not think it is irrelevant. Unfortunately, if we are not speaking in general terms here, but in particular, I do not see that this current idea is supported in any way on the basis of these examples. It has been said several times that even in Central Europe, in our area too, our higher education has fallen behind, because the neighbouring countries and the surrounding universities have a different ranking. That's true, by the way, but let's take a specific look. Dear Parliament, The University of Vienna is ranked 150th, and I respectfully inform you that it is a state-owned university. Károly University in Prague is ranked 260th, and no one in the Czech Republic is questioning it so as not to remain a state university. The Jagello University of Krakow is 326, far ahead of the most prestigious Hungarian university, of course state university. If we look a little wider and take into account our traditions, Karls Ruprecht Universität Heidelberg is in the world ranking of the 64th, Baden-Württemberg province, in this sense the exclusive property of the state. The University of Göttingen, the alma mater of many former Hungarian students, the 195th and fully state university. The Alma Mater Studiorum Bologna, which is famous in our history, is the 160th State University. Of the first hundred universities in the world ranking, which are typically English or American, have three universities in Singapore, Australia and two in Switzerland and the German universities mentioned above, they cannot say any of them! , which has become a state-owned foundation; none, not one, nor one, nor the 99th. There is a university that has become a state-owned foundation: the Alvar Aalto University in Finland, and the Alvar Aalto University in this ranking 124. From this, honourable Members, it is necessary to conclude and to draw the following conclusions: a university can be good if it has a state reserve, and it can be good if it has a foundation reserve, a university can be weak if it has a foundation reserve, and it can be weak if it has a state reserve. The quality of the higher education institution does not depend on the maintainer, to be more precise: it does not depend on that. Therefore, I respectfully ask you to acknowledge and acknowledge that the change of model, which, by the way, does not bring any improvement in quality in itself, will not do so, and that is not what the quality depends on. So if you're targeting the success of our country, and we're obviously in this together, then you have to say that it's the eminent part of the law, that there should be a change of model, because that's a prerequisite for raising standards, it's false, it's not true. [[11.00]] The second question is the internal structure that you are proposing for model-changing higher education institutions. The creation and composition of the above-mentioned form of foundation and the Board of Foundation Rights, namely the change of ownership, is also a very significant criticism of what has been done in the last roughly one decade. First, that a body should then be called a board, according to this bill, to decide for itself who to become a later member if necessary, whether to change its composition, whether to replace it, or to make any determining personal and conceptual issues that look at its internal functioning, is simply nonsense. This is not autonomy, it is feudalism, feudal bodies had such characteristics in the history of Hungary, otherwise feudalism is far present in various forms of society until 1990, that a body decides its own internal rules and its internal composition. You are introducing an institutional characteristic that is very typical in Hungarian history, but we thought that it was beyond the regime change, when, in the case of curatorials, you are entitled to decide for yourself on matters of the operation, composition and possible personal issues. It's feudalism, it's not autonomy. Thus, it is not possible to set the example that there are institutions, universities, where, for example, the mayor of a particular city, the city of Berlin, holds a post. You call yourself the President and Members of the Board, not the current one, because there is not one name in the case of Berlin, in the case of many U.S. universities, but an office, the governor, and not a name; the Mayor of Governor Berlin, and not a name. And here, just for the record, don't let me call you one person, because it's the same for the others, and I don't want to hurt anyone. How, then, does a government dare to put its ministers, the active minister of the current government, in person, into a board of trustees whose composition cannot otherwise be changed by law? It is not that he is Hungary's Minister of Justice, but that he is a named person. It is not the case of Berlin that it is a named person, but an elected official in charge of the city, so it is not possible to cover. At the same time, the internal structure brings the full power of the Board of Governors, significantly reduces the importance of the Rector on strategic issues, makes the role of the Senate simply symbolic on strategic issues, and compared to that, the grace is that the Senate may delegate to the Supervisory Board, how great it is, so let us say, more cynicism than professional foundation. Not to mention the posts that you have just created, see the chancellor's office and operation, which the Prime Minister's Commissioner has already strongly criticized, and the question of the consistors, which are no longer mentioned. This does not say that there is some kind of stability in your higher education policy, some kind of continuity, just the opposite: it is discount-inuitive. This is constantly breaking up, experimenting with new things, because, in fact, and in fact, you do not have a long-term, strategic picture of the future of higher education, but you change it every half a decade, disproved your former self. Consider the issue of funding, of what, of how a university is farming. Here I have to say that there are also different solutions to be chosen, because what is mentioned as an example is the first model change in the case of Corvinus University, where you have made a decisive part of the common wealth, of the two significant packages that provide stability and stability in the whole of the share cards of the Hungarian common property, as the funding base of Corvinus University, you just have to realize that in every case you cannot do this at each institution. So they say the 1st. I quote in paragraph 4 of the section on the question of financing: When planning Hungary's budget at all times, the provision of financing conditions is a factor advanced in the planning of the respective institutions. And if I don't? And if I don't? How do you expect a democracy to provide for a budget at all times, arguing the right of the current government in a kind of commitment not enshrined in an international treaty? How do you think that the government's most important task is limited, how does the government at any time put together the country's budget with the legitimacy given by the voters, and what is included in it as a senior factor and what is not? How can you guarantee the funding for higher education institutions when property is taken from our common property, to pass it on to a board and the property that the Hungarian State renounces is financed by the Hungarian State? How do you see this as a long-term commitment? Please tell me in 11 years what kind of government will be in Hungary! What kind of government is it that you, by the way, dare to conclude your hand with a commitment made by an internal political treaty, not an international treaty? This is far from democratic in all respects. Similarly, the issue of funding raises the issue of the placement of a significant amount of EU funds in higher education. Please, who disputes that higher education is generally good for a given area, that if you receive money in a supervised manner, it is either stupid or it is not in the interest of this country, this nation. But I respectfully report to you that from this EU resource, you are not only intended for universities that make the model change, but also for those that do not make the model change, for example, my workplace and my original university. It's all right. It's all right. The fact that the Eötvös Loránd University and other universities, where the model change is not currently included, receive this source proves that the change of model is unnecessary only in order to obtain EU funding, because universities from the European Union do not make the change of model. In English: this is not something that would require a change of model in the case of quality. Similarly, we need to examine what we already have experience, what we have to wait for, because we do not have it. There is no professionally eligible participant and institution that does not say that at least three academic years in higher education, so four calendar years, must pass when assessing a major transformation. Even for Corvinus, we do not have this set of experiences. It cannot be said that the experience of the transformation of Corvinus is such that it can be an example of other institutions of Hungarian higher education. By the way, there are encouraging signs and there are very negative signs. I cannot say after all this time that it is good or bad, but I can say for sure that it is wrong to transform the decisive institutions of Hungarian higher education on the basis of this example. In one more short thought, please allow me to say that a distinction must be made between a professional institution and a university. I resist and oppose in all my strength and in all ways the transformation of rural universities. [[11.10]] As can be suggested and debateable, a professional university is a particular profession, a specific area, whether agriculture, IT or winery, to discuss this, without any precedent in the case of a university of all disciplines, because they cannot give a single international example, not one in the world, where a university is given from state reserve to foundation, and you are handing over our entire network of Hungarian rural universities, Pécs, Szeged, Debrecent. Sin! It's a crime because you don't know what it's gonna be, because you can't draw any experience on it. Therefore, I must conclude that this current draft law cannot be conclusively justified for professional reasons. In the background, in my opinion, there are no professional examples or professional reasons. I see power, not professional conviction. I see that the basis of this bill is not a professional decision, but a political reason. The reason is power, the transition of power, the attempt to occupy spiritual and intellectual space. If there were technical reasons to prove it, I would argue with it, but I could be persuaded; but since I see power as a reason for this law, the transition of power and the attempt to occupy intellectual and intellectual space, I do not support it, I oppose it, and I recommend to all Members that they vote against it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-04-09-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, We will wait for Congresswoman Zita Gurmai to arrive at the platform, as she will continue the keynote speech of the MSZP Group. You have a little over six minutes, Congresswoman. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We're getting used to the fact that Fidesz, like other thieves, is most active at night. Motions for the seizure of state property will usually be submitted by you at midnight. Right now, the National Farms and Farms of Men have taken place. The Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates are one of the most valuable agricultural complexes in the country, which generates HUF 500 million a year with an annual income of HUF 6 billion. The company that operated the stud estates was also bought back by the Hungarian State during the Orbán government in 2016 by operating a state sample farm there. In September 2018, János Lázár started his work with huge plans as the government commissioner responsible for coordinating state tasks in relation to stud estates. Compared to this, before Easter, on Wednesday night, everyone was struck by lightning at the initiative of establishing the Future Generations' Land Foundation. Then, a few minutes later, another proposal was submitted that the organisation that had not yet been established could obtain the billion-dollar stock package of Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates free of charge. This means that this unparalleled national value will soon be out of the hands of taxpayers as planned by the government. And when we protest against it, it's always the same answer to believe that no one will get worse. Yeah, right. We've got the fortune, but not in the country, but in the pockets of fidesz buddies. You're not surprised that after 11 years of stealing, no one believes the Fidesz? Especially not in the southern part of Békés county, where Fidesz Congressman György Simonka proved that Fidesz is a thieving party. Mengyi Roland is already preparing to receive his fellow factions in the luxurious prison in Kecskemét. And there was every chance that the southern part of Békés County would flourish. But EU funds and billions of state aid have migrated into private pockets, while the people living here have become poorer and more vulnerable. And now Fidesz is also taking away the security of state property. What you're doing to the Fidesz Peaceful County is a disgrace and a disgrace! And not just here. It's clear that Fidesz is fleeing the state because he's preparing for an election defeat. That's why they're making dozens of fast state charities, and then they're playing over state property. No misunderstanding, we are pleased that you are afraid, but we will not allow you to take the state property, we will not allow you to steal from the Hungarian people. This proposal is about this and nothing else. There's nothing to fix, there's nothing to change. There is only one acceptable answer: withdraw, apologize and await the Hungarian people's judgment in 2022! Thank you for listening.
u2021-04-09-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. [[John Lázár: Friend of Gábor Simon!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gergely Arató's speech from the DK Group will now be followed as lead speaker. He's the opposition clerk, so we'll wait until he's on the stand. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, notary. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-17	Thank you very much. Dear House, By quoting Jenő Hiding, we could say that this is a brilliant villain. There is a very successful TV series, which is also watched by many in Hungary, called Big Money Theft. If the makers had seen this package of laws, they would have been ashamed because the money is the least of it. You take the university, the land, the horse, you take the castle, you take the island of Shipyard, and I can go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on This bill is about the systematic, well-organized and seemingly legalized theft of a large part of the Hungarian state, and nothing else. What does this bill mean for higher education? The essence of this was so careless today, Mr Secretary of State, when he said that the model-shifting universities would be transferred to the category of private university. [[Tamás János Schanda: It is in the law.]] Yes, this is what the higher education model changes: this is the privatization of a significant part of Hungarian higher education. You can describe it, you can talk about it, but that's what it's all about. In 2010, there were 31 state higher education institutions, if I remember correctly; if this proposal is adopted, there will be much less than ten of them. You are the property of the Hungarian people... Congressman Mellar, who is more at home in numbers than I am, helps to make it work, so six out of 31 stays. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal and the whole change of model are therefore about how to take this enormous wealth away from Hungarian citizens, if you like it, from the Hungarian people, not only in wealth, but also not primarily in wealth, but also in tradition, community, knowledge, prestige, and educated people. I'm sorry, but what you're saying on top of that, once again, by quoting the veritable words of the Secretary of State, I can only classify it as a popular expression regarding the conservation of the genetic heritage of indigenous breeds of horses. Let's just say, in order to protect Parliament's authority, that this is bullshit, bullshit, and I was very polite at the time. Because the digital challenge, the need for change in higher education, the involvement in the world's blood circulation, the improvement of corporate relations, the more flexible way of operation, the better use of university wealth, the service of students, I did not prescribe all of them, they are wonderful, great goals, and have nothing to do with the change of model. That's not what the change of model is about. It's not about what's going on in college, it's not about how college works; it's about who owns the university. It's about who owns the knowledge, who owns the future generation, and who owns the wealth. That's what this bill is about. [[11.20]] And, of course, we know that Mr Pósán pointed out in a very fair way that there have been a number of long-standing problems in higher education with the state's way of working. Yes, we have looked for these solutions, Minister István Hiller mentioned some of them; but yes, I accept, we have not found them all, we have not found the best. At the time, when we prepared the Higher Education Act in 2005 at the Ministry of Education, we wanted more and more than what was finally achieved. But you are not looking for how to find better forms of operation in addition to state reservations, public service operations, national property, this is not what you are looking for; you are looking for how to remove this whole system from public control and control. And, well, there are very revealing elements to this proposal. One of these was mentioned by my fellow Members that, no, public procurement is the very thing that torments and strangles universities terribly; well, now you will not strangle them, and then your friend's board of trustees will entrust your buddies with everything they need. That's what this is about. Then there's no control here. They'll appoint a reliable curatorium, and they'll spend the money they've received from the state, because they'll keep the state funding on this, and I'll talk about it a little later, and the state funding will stay, but the board will decide which pocket to put this money in, without any control or control. And speaking of financing, of course, improving funding is always an important goal. I would, however, be cautious of the aspects mentioned by Mr Pósán, because these are aspects of the American university rankings, which are excellently applicable when it is, say, a university operating in an economic field or even in a technical field; let us say, in teacher training, they would not finance how many foreign students there are, because they are likely to be small enough in the Hungarian course, and they would not necessarily be financed according to what kind of corporate relations there are, because I do not think that the teachers of future history should necessarily be familiar with the technical area or industry and the production of vehicles. So, to put it this way, if funding is modernised, it is perfect, it is good, it can change a lot, and I am under the impression that for a very long time there has been no good financing solution for higher education policy, even if I think what Minister Hiller said is that after 2011, this funding system has become much worse than what we introduced and refined before 2011, not from our own wisdom, but from a number of discussions with the Rector's Conference. But it's okay, you guys make a better funding system. You don't need a foundation for that either. Make a financing agreement with the universities, so they can be predictable years in advance, how much money they get. Great. You don't need a foundation for that either. Support corporate relations. Great. You don't need a foundation for that either. Make it possible for them to bring in money from the outside. You don't need a foundation for that either. To do this, we have to change the state rules here and there, indeed. Well, make better laws. Otherwise, it would also be good for the rest of the public sector to consider some extremely stupid and unnecessarily restrictive legislation. But we make the laws here in Parliament, bring in better laws, and don't steal higher education. That's not the answer. However, let me say with caution that the quality will increase several times, and then Congressman Pósán was kind enough to say in his contribution that they want to increase quality by simplifying, in Hungarian, the accreditation of both the start-up and the licensing of new professions, and to review, understand, shorten the training time. Now, that's gonna increase quality, really. Weaker accreditation, shorter training time, what else would be quality if it didn't? They argue that this proposal ensures autonomy and even strengthens autonomy, which they are able to say on their lips. Let me indicate that there is a fundamental debate between us on autonomy, I could say that there is a fundamental misunderstanding. Independence is the autonomy of the community of the university, the autonomy of the community of teachers and students in determining their own affairs, and in this respect, it is not autonomy that if maintenance rights are outsourced to a circle of friends, which is called a curatorium for the sake of simplicity, this does not strengthen autonomy. From the point of view of autonomy, it does not matter whether the maintenance rights are exercised by the Board of Governors or exercised by the State or by another owner. You know what matters from the point of view of autonomy? The fact that the university has autonomy over its maintenance arbitrary decisions. The problem with this system that you're introducing is that it's not. And don't tell me that this legislation guarantees the autonomy of universities, guarantees that the community of students and teachers can make the decisions, because then I'll tell you that it's SZFE. The story of the SZFE has clearly shown that in this maintenance system, the curatorium can do whatever it wants. Not only can you cross the bodies and organizations of university autonomy, not only can you drive away a large part of the instructors and students, but you also have the right to openly violate the law because you assist in this. I think you're wrong about that, by the way, but at this point, the Secretary of State or the Minister is telling me, to my question, "Yeah, well, here's the curatorium's responsibility." That's not true, because maintaining legitimacy would be your responsibility, but in this system, the board of trustees undoubtedly has a much greater power to determine the life of the university and to disregard the autonomy of the university than the state maintainer would. This is acknowledged by Congressman Pósán when he says that the university will decide how to operate, what institutions to be, what regulations to be, but it is not decided by the university, it is no longer the community of the university, it is not the autonomous university that decides what regulations, what manner of operation, what order of decision and how the university should operate, but by the high curatorium with its members appointed, unalterable and uncontrollable for all eternity. This is therefore the abuse of university autonomy, the emptying of university autonomy; in essence, the curatorium is free to decide on everything. This alone shows that this bill is unacceptable. This bill, in my view and opinion, does not comply with the principles of academic autonomy set out in the European University Charter, the Bologna Charter, and does not even correspond to the rather weak-legged, granite-solid thing. I have to say that this proposal in this form marks the end of university autonomy, from this point on, every university is vulnerable to the board, and from this point on, the board of trustees for all universities is essentially doing what they are not ashamed of, and as I know your appointment practice in the curatoriums, these curators will not be ashamed of anything. You refer to Klebelsberg, poor man, who really doesn't deserve this. Because Klebelsberg's great merit was realizing that education, including the maintenance of higher education, was the fundamental cause of the state, and he recognized that it was the task of the state to operate such a system, in many ways in the field of higher education, even to say that it was ahead of its own age. Klebelsberg's great work is the state higher education system created in the ruins of Trianon in this country. This higher education system is privatised by you, and this higher education system is being divided. Don't you dare mention Klebelsberg in this context. Because I think you're gonna beat him up and betray the work he created. They refer to Senate decisions, and they refer to the fact that, well, the Senate approved that. The fact that you asked for it is a curious work of insolence, because the Senate has asked you to ask that we all know that we are aware of the initiatives and requests on the part of the Ministry. However, I must say with great respect that, in recent years, higher education institutions have been put in such a vulnerable position that it takes moral courage against such a strong request from the Ministry to be able to say no to a Senate or some of its members. [[11.30]] And the fact that this has been achieved by manipulations that I last saw in the late eighties, during the weak party state, I think it's shameful, so you should be ashamed. Let me mention one more little thing. Among other things, the university instructors and senates were told that there would be a salary increase if they went to foundation instead of giving them the raise, and they would have told you to decide afterwards whether you wanted to stay in public employment protection for the same higher salary or go out to employment contracts without protection. No, they told them that either you'd get paid for a raise, and then you'd be on a foundation, or no raise, and you could stay in state form. But they've done more than that, and there will be very serious consequences. Do you know what the main argument was for a good foundation? Because they said that when the university becomes a foundation, there will be state aid and, more importantly, EU support, because the European Union is actually spending a lot of money on the development of higher education, because it understands how important this is. Indeed, you have said that you will be in Szeged, Debrecen, Miskolc, and I would like to say further Miskolc has already decided on an EU proposal and EU support if you are transformed into a foundation form. And don't let anyone think it's an empty threat. It is worth looking at the fact that there has already been a pre-emption, pre-qualification application, which, by the way, has heavily scratched the EU's legality or EU rules, in which a lot of money has been promised to higher education institutions, and that, no, the ELTE, which, for the time being, does not want or can not become a foundation institution, has not received a penny. They decided not to, just to the foundation, to the foundation. I must say that, in all my conviction and knowledge, this violates EU principles on non-discrimination, it will cause very serious difficulties for Hungarian higher education, I have strong doubts that, with such conditions, rules and this kind of abuse, this EU support will actually reach universities. There's one more thing I want to talk to you about in connection with the individual foundations, or two little things. One of the things is the case of Makovecz's Piliscsaba campus. Do you remember, House, that a few months ago we rescued the Hungarian Catholic Church from the situation or rescued it by developing a campus in Piliscsaba, and that did not fulfill the expectations attached to it. I wouldn't go for it, I think it was a viable idea in many ways, but for some reason it wasn't successful after all, it turns out that students like to go to university in Budapest more than in Piliscsaba. What is the government's solution to this text? The fact that if students didn't want to go to Piliscsaba, then health workers and teachers will travel to Piliscsaba, because they have to attend the training course, we will create a large foundation there, for example, in the amendment of the Public Education Act, we guarantee that only there can organize the teacher's further education, and then we will have to talk to Piliscsaba. This is your solution to this problem. We give the Catholics real estate with state money so that the University of Pázmány can operate in the right place in Budapest, and, by the way, Piliscsaba, which didn't work as a university, well, that'll be good for the teachers for the nurses, the doctors, because they're obviously free, no matter where they have to travel and under what conditions they have to study. I can't go without saying that in addition to the university-related issues, there are still some charming foundation initiatives here. One was already analysed by my fellow Member, Zita Gurmai. Obviously, we will all be surprised if our fellow Member, János Lázár, does not appear around the foundation established in Mezőhegyes. The government also gives a similar personal belief to Szilárd Demeter, the notoriously extremist leader of the Petőfi Literary Museum. Once again, we would be surprised if he was no longer a dominant player around the Petőfi Literature Agency and the related foundation. You know, this foundation, which receives facilities and real estate that are absolutely necessary for literary activity, such as the Zichy Castle or even the southern end of the island of Shipyard. These will obviously be extremely important for the valuable national literature building work that will take place there. Finally, I need to talk to you about two more nasty cases in this package of laws. One is the referral. On the one hand, the legislation itself has a lot of very strange rules. I keep telling you, I don't want to say this for a long time now, we discussed this in detail in the case of the SZFE, and it turns out that we were right about everything we suspected at the time. It is a very strange construction that these trust foundations will essentially become self-propelled, since the founding rights can also be obtained by the board of trustees, and they will usually receive them, from this point on they will be like... but I do not want to give an example anymore, so, in any case, if they are not forever existing, they will always exist without any change or other possibility. If the needs of higher education change in two years or two hundred years, otherwise it will not be possible to do so, because otherwise these curatoriums are individually cemented and embedded in their structure. Obviously, we can and will change this type of structure by a two-thirds law, of course, but it is certain that you intend to create a completely uncontrollable and opaque structure. I can't go past the way the bill is presented either. You don't think anyone would believe that this bill was accidentally tabled at the height of the epidemic when most people have died in Hungary for weeks because of a coronal virus epidemic, and that it was at that time that this proposal was accidentally taken out? No one believes that. You're covering with the plague to cover this filth. It was charming, then, that they thought that they would complete the submission of this package of laws on Thursday. As a result, Parliament's meeting had to be postponed. It was not possible to draw up one of the proposals from the 30s, leaving Easter for opposition representatives to prepare themselves. I congratulate you on the respect of the rule of law, respect for higher education, protection of the authority of the Parliament, which you so welcome to refer to and respect for Christian values. You are so deceitful and lying: the text can be anything, the intention is stealing. There is a less sophisticated way to do this than to do a curatorium and put their people in it, because they are so greedy that they do not get enough to get control, they also make sure that they fill their own pockets with the help of these curatoriums. We read that we have more Members, and I don't want to be personal here. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: No! Ah!]] It receives a monthly income of HUF 1.5 million and HUF 850 thousand, thanks to the supervisory and curatoriums. There is also such a secretary of state to the government, who complements his modestly degrading salary with a one and a half million curatorial allowance, but there is also a mayor who thought that he was not ashamed to bend down for modest HUF 1.6 million a month, even if this is worrying about the provisions of the municipal law, but there is no problem, there is no problem, they solve this problem, now they write in the law that it can be from now on. You know, it's very incompatible with all the activities of the mayors, because focus on the city, by chance, you can sit in a university board for good money. [[11.40]] All in all, I can therefore say that this proposal is not for the benefit of higher education and, on the contrary, it is at the expense of higher education. This proposal does not serve to modernise higher education. This proposal is not in the interest of students. This proposal does not support the work of academics. This proposal does not serve environmental objectives. This proposal does not support culture and art. The only thing this proposal serves is to put your hands directly on a significant part of state wealth, EU and domestic support and the budget for higher education. This is the only purpose of this proposal, and it is therefore outrageous, shameful and shameful. Of course, we will not support it; and be quite calm, we will find a way to get the wealth we have taken back to the Hungarian people, the Hungarian citizens and the nation. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-09-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, who will also speak from the platform. I'll wait for him to arrive. [[Dr. László László Keresztes steps on the speaker stand.]] Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Orbán said this morning in his usual radio interview on Friday that Hungary has been experiencing unprecedented times of war for a long time, and only our grandparents could face such a period. By the way, this is true, so we are in a very critical period of the epidemic; and obviously we are not only affected by this problem in Hungary, but we are in a very difficult, critical situation globally. I think that, in this situation, we must start by thanking everyone who is fighting at this moment to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people in very, very difficult, often unworthy circumstances. However, we must certainly see the connection, and this is what my fellow Members have just referred to here: it is quite amazing that they are putting forward such a motion, such as, in the words of Viktor Orbán, in a wartime before the Parliament; a motion which is perhaps most about the fate and future of higher education, but which is basically going beyond that, and which essentially determines, not just the future of Hungarian youth, but the future of the whole country. And I think it's hard to find enough critical words for what you do and how you do it. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to ask you where István Stumpf is, who is responsible for overseeing this transformation as a government commissioner. [[Tamás János Schanda: You can't come in!]] And, Mr. Secretary of State, where is your boss, where is the Minister of Higher Education, László Palkovics? So in such a case, when fundamental changes to higher education are brought to Parliament of an unprecedented nature, what is more important for the minister responsible? But where is József Bódis, State Secretary for Higher Education? Because I think it's a shame and a shame that the government's responsible politicians aren't here. [[Tamás János Schanda: Thank you!]] And they're sending Mr. Deputy Minister here. And I do not want to be personal, I think that this is certainly the personal responsibility and shame of Minister and Secretary of State that they are not here. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] But I will go on: I think that in such a case, if we are talking only about higher education, when we are talking about tens of thousands of students, when we are talking about tens of thousands of employees, the fate of tens of thousands of families, when we know how important economic actors Hungarian universities are, so we can say that this is about the future of regions and cities, then Prime Minister Viktor Orbán should also be here. The Hungarian Prime Minister should be here in the debate on such a truly life-changing motion, and it would be his duty to have the minister of responsibility and the secretary of state responsible for higher education. It's a shame they're not here. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] There is also an advantage that many speakers can speak in a debate, as there is an opportunity to put many, many lies from the pro-government side in order to confront you. You have spoken about this many times before, my fellow Members have quoted Klebelsberg Kuno, and I would also like to quote him, and I think that you should pay close attention to this quote and always try to keep it before you. It says: "The true culture boosts economic life and creates wealth. On the other hand, even rich people and societies are ruined without real education. Mr Arató has already pointed out that you are now doing what you are doing and, by the way, we add that in the last 11 years, what you have done against scientific life and higher education, you are going against the principles that he has formulated in all its elements. To begin with the substance of my speech, I can say that what you are doing now in this extremely serious situation is extremely serious, even in your view, and that is why today's debate is of particular importance, because we must try to demonstrate to Hungarian society as much as possible what is really happening here. I feel, unfortunately, and that is a very big problem, that it has not yet become aware in Hungarian society of the scale and dangers that you have brought before the Parliament. This is not only about the continuation of the outsourcing of national wealth and various governmental functions to the various reliable figures of your own, in various organisational forms that are happening now, the pawning of the future of Hungarian youth, the humiliation of universities, entire cities and regions, the disregard of traditions and values, and the playing of tens of thousands of jobs. That's what you do. And all of this is absolutely amazing, supported by cynical lies that can be heard here today. I can tell you earlier, Congressman Nacsa mentioned different values and ideologies, for those who do this, nothing is sacred, my honourable fellow Member. Here, Congressman Nacsa referred to Christian Democratic principles, a huge mistake. By the way, we can say that there are no values behind you, but only interests. But even in a policy of such interest, what you guys are doing is very crappy. The word that Congressman Nacsa was looking for, I believe, was the communist pace, you are applying it, and this is how you intervene in the life of Hungarian higher education. Indeed, such a harsh intervention was the last time in socialism concerning higher education. Obviously, in today's debate, we do not need to convince you that you are here as a voting machine, but we need to get the reality of what is behind your motion and your lying words, as widely as possible, to Hungarian society. And yes, we need to get this to people with right-wing, conservative thinking, so that they can also form an opinion, to people who think and think that this ideology is independent, that national wealth does not belong in private foundations, that national wealth should be under the control of non-fidesz politicians. We also need to see what is going on here, for whom centuries of tradition is important, university autonomy, university self-determination; who reject the kind of the theft that you are accomplishing and the indecent concentration of power that we can witness even now, even during a critical period of the epidemic. This debate is also important because we need to give strength to all those who are still trying to protest in this situation and are trying to resist this outrage. It is very, very important that we must give strength here to university citizens and workers who are already talking about the need to stop this disgrace with a strike. So what I can tell you is that this matter cannot be closed by a parliamentary debate and cannot be closed by a parliamentary vote, it is such a serious matter at that level. And indeed, if we look to the future, next year there will be an election, we trust that this government can be disturbed, and then these outrages can be corrected by a proper procedure. But let's see, and it's a huge risk that they will be able to do great damage in the next year after the adoption of such a law. So I'm saying that you can't allow that, and you have to be able to stop it by all means. In short, what you do instead of a meaningful crisis management. The decision-making in public wealth and, by the way, in government competence is being continuously outsourced, which is basically what this parliamentary week is all about. Three-quarters of the many motions tabled specifically, honourable Members, which have been submitted to the Parliament this week, are about this. You have mentioned, my fellow Members, that a whole range of trust funds are being created. In a cynical way and yesterday there has been a debate here before the Parliament about government functions that have traditionally always been in government and ministerial competence, and that is the right thing to do, should remain there. These are being organised with the creation of different authorities, amazingly, in the debate yesterday, it was also apparent that, in particular, nine years would be assigned unrecallable, your intention is unrecallable, and that they are now organizing existing government competences. And yes, it continues, and it can be said that the outsourcing and political direction of Hungarian state higher education will be around and complete. [[11.50]] So make it clear to everyone that there is no change of model here. This is about outsourcing, privateisation and political governance, so it is about outsourcing universities, total university assets, university property, university decision-making, traditions and intellectual capital. In a very cynical way, all of this has been confined to one single motion, one debate. It was clear at the beginning of the debate that it took Mr President several minutes to present this motion, and so much, in itself, was compressed into a debate. Let's take a look. It's about outsourcing the University of Pécs. The University of Pécs has 20,000 students. The University of Szeged also has 20,000 students at stake. The University of Debrecen has 27,000 students, 3,500 students at the University of Nyíregyháza, 1400 students at the University of Dunaújváros, 11,000 students at Semmelweis University, 11,000 students at the University of Óbuda, 2100 students at the University of Physical Education, 16,000 students at the Budapest University of Economics, 428 students at the University of Hungarian Dance Arts. These universities are your intention, according to your motion, to become private universities, directly under the control of fidesz politicians or people close to you. Only the following universities remain in the state reserve: the National University of Public Service, the Eötvös Loránd University, the Budapest University of Technology and Economics, the Liszt Ferenc University of Music and the Hungarian University of Fine Arts. That's all the state college's left. That's pretty amazing. Before I go into the criticism of the motions in more detail, allow me a few reactions. Secretary of State at the Expoze of the 21st century. He spoke of global challenges in the last century. Indeed, yes, how competitive a country will be and how well it will be able to meet or meet the challenges is of great importance and role in how effective, how good higher education is. But, Mr. Secretary, obviously you haven't been here that long, but your government has been ruling for 11 years, Viktor Orbán has been ruling for 11 years, so don't talk like you've been on the government for a year. This is incredibly irresponsible and a huge mistake. Secretary of State, do you really believe that the transformation and preparation of Hungarian universities, higher education, for global challenges, can be achieved by placing them under the control of fidesz politicians? Is this to meet the global challenge for you to put everything under your own control? That's pretty amazing. They talked about flexibility, about the relationship with economic life. We have already had a small taste of this: László Parragh, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that he would demand that the Chamber's approval for the start of a new course in the case of universities. That's pretty amazing, all the way. Is that the kind of thing you're trying to enforce? Will that really be the case, Mr. Secretary? I ask you very much to answer that question. Mr Vinnai, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we have already had a debate on this issue. You were very clear then, by the way, about what was behind this, behind the so-called decision preparation. He said almost literally that anyone who misses a model change would also be left out of development sources. Now, that's the blackmail that's justified everything. It's in the record of the Cultural Committee. By the way, I appreciate it when, on rare occasions, a pro-government representative is so honest, doesn't make a fuss, but tells me that this is what's going on, blackmailing everyone to come into the model change, otherwise they can forget about EU funds. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai intervenes.]] Congressman Nacsa... calm down, fellow Members. We listened to you, too. Congressman Nacsa mentioned the Senate decisions. We could actually watch this process, less in Debrecen, because everything was in closed sessions, but, say, in the case of Szeged, in the case of Pécs, we could watch the decisions and hear the various debates and statements. Many university leaders have defined conditions, expectations and guarantees, where they specifically support the change of model. Congressman Nacsa is not here, but to ask me a question, perhaps he is watching us somewhere, to respect these guarantees, Mr Nacsa, Member Hoppál, Member Vinnai, Mr Hollik, Member of the Council. Mr Mellar and I have also tabled a proposal for a resolution, which contains the guarantees of university citizenship, not by us, but by the leaders of the universities concerned. I will now submit this amendment to your legislative proposals separately. Will you vote for it, fellow Members? Mr Péter Hoppál voted in favour of the guarantees made by Rector Miseta, which Mr Miseta put forward to support the change of model in the event that those guarantees prevail? I'll be watching you, Congressman. Your vote. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Listen!]] In order to meet this, it meets the needs of university leaders, university senates, when these guarantees need to be integrated into this system. I would also like to refer to the words of Congressman György Szilágyi. There was a sentence from a party of a kind that universities in the capital and rural universities might seem to be under a different assessment from the government. I can say that I am from the country, Pécs, that, unfortunately, the situation is worse than what Mr Szilágyi said, because the rural universities were, by the way, the biggest losers of your shameful policy on higher education, typically the smaller higher education institutions in rural areas, but the large rural universities have suffered very serious damage over the past decade. I'm going to back that up with some specific numbers. Well, let's take a specific look at the lies you've written. Here too, it has been said several times, and in Parliament's debates over the past period, that there is some kind of comprehensive concept along which you are involved in higher education. [[Schanda Tamás János sneezes.]] Cheers, Mr. Secretary. with which you support the transformation of higher education, the transition in higher education. That is completely excluded, and I have repeatedly said this to Secretary of State Bódis in the luckier situation when he honoured the Parliament as the State Secretary responsible and personally participated in a debate that what you call a change of degrees cannot be regarded as a change of degrees in the wrong direction; that is to say, progress with higher education at a higher speed than in the interests of higher education. By the way, in a debate, I remember about a year ago, Secretary of State Bódis said that in the case of large rural universities, the government would be more cautious, waiting for extensive experience, and then perhaps a change of model for these universities. Minister László Palkovics said in InfoRádio on 25 June 2020 that the three major rural universities and the University of Semmelweis will remain state reserve. So much for a comprehensive concept. István Hiller has already mentioned in detail that what documents were available for this transformation into higher education, there was not even such a mention of privateisation, there was little mention of these certain trust foundations. It's a recent innovation from your side, and there's a tendency to unpack everything in this, at least as far as you're concerned. Completely lying and hypocritical justification is that this absolutely amazing transformation is needed now because Hungarian higher education needs to be improved. This has also been justified by my fellow Members. Well, what does solitude have to do with the development of higher education? Furthermore, I repeat, you have been ruling for 11 years, why have you not taken any meaningful steps to improve Hungarian higher education? It is visible and, unfortunately, it can be seen in the figures that your policy against higher education has caused enormous damage. In itself, it is a terrible pity that many people have left the profession because of uncertainty and humiliatingly low education and research wages, and unfortunately, which is a tragedy, many people have left the country. They are all academics, researchers and otherwise university workers. It can also be seen to what extent the number of candidates has decreased. It is also shocking that, after 11 years of governance, the intention was not really to settle the humiliatingly low teaching wages. Would the change of degrees, Mr. Secretary of State, be the competitive higher education that, in the 11th year of your reign, a university assistant with a doctoral degree has a gross salary of HUF 277,000? Mr. Secretary, do you think that's okay? By the way, do you think that's what you're gonna put 15 percent on? Perhaps we can agree that this is still humiliatingly low. I do not want to be personal either, but my fellow Member has mentioned that there are Members of Parliament who still have such titles, of course, the corresponding remuneration, and even university curators, for a million and a half. Now, this Fidesz congressman makes 11 times as much money a month as a college assistant with a PhD. Is this your change of gear? Is that fair to you? Did you really get this far in 11 years, that one of your fidesz politicians makes 11 times as much money as a college assistant who graduated from doctorate, who spent his life doing research and education? ! This is an outrage, fellow Members. [[12.00]] (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Indeed, this has already been said, between HUF 1500 and HUF 2000 billion will come from the European Union in the direction of higher education. You have no other intention than to grant yourself the right to decide and to dispose of these huge EU development resources. Indeed, the development has nothing to do with the outsourcing of foundations, there is nothing to do with privateisation, and István Hiller spoke about this in very detail, giving a long description of the examples that support the best, most well-known European universities have a state reserve, and there is no link between the quality of higher education, the efficiency of the use of European Union development resources, where appropriate, and the state or foundation maintenance. So what you are saying is a net lie, my fellow Members, behind this there are power-technical intentions, that is quite clear. You are talking about this, and you often say that here, voluntarily and with a public cry, universities have asked for a change of model. Well, that's not exactly true. By the way, Congressman Vinnai, at the committee's meeting, gave an eloquent rebuttal of what blackmail, what a threat was behind this, but that is not exactly true. So, when the minister himself says for certain universities that there is no imminent change of model, this is happening, in a serious epidemiological situation, when a meeting cannot be convened, they practically blackmailed the universities in a rush to decide in weeks that they would be better off if they decided to start the model change process. But they didn't even give any meaningful information to the leaders that they would have passed on the information to university citizenship that they really could have made meaningful decisions. So it is clear that blackmail was a threat here, but I would add that here in many places, as I have already mentioned, guarantees have been formulated, the conditions required for the way university leaders, university citizens can imagine a change of model. It is time for these guarantees to be enforced, because the laws you have presented do not in any way include these very important, expected guarantees. And it's quite amazing that there's a growing degree of autonomy here. Ladies and gentlemen, You put universities together with all their assets, intellectual property, everything, into foundations. At the same time, curators authorised to take decisions on foundations can not be appointed by the Senate elected by university citizenship, but by the Ministry. That's amazing, and explain why it's so, why the government appoints university curators. In your intention, these curators cannot be recalled. What's the need for that? What does this have to do with the use of EU development resources, what does it have to do with the quality of higher education, that these curators cannot be recalled? This has also been mentioned, my fellow Member, that you can conclude an agreement that this board will be entitled to name the new curators in the event of replacement. We know a limit in the system that curators can fill these positions until they're 80 years old. But let's see. According to your proposal, these board of trustees can decide on the university's budget. They can decide on the organizational and operational regulations of the university, and in Hungarian they can determine the powers of each body themselves, at least they can bring that right to themselves. In fact, it may also arise that the Board of Governors determines the terms of the rector's application. What does university autonomy have to do with this? My fellow Members have already said that what you have presented here does not protect academic autonomy, university autonomy is thus abolished, it protects the autonomy of the curatoriums set up by you, which are essentially intended to be cemented. I repeat: these curators are set up without a time limit. Do my fellow Members really want to defend the situation of the fact that, based on experience, they are actually filling the board of trustees of foundations that maintain universities with Fidesz politicians? Péter Szijjártó, Judit Varga, MEP Lázár, István Bajkai personally guarantee the development of higher education? How long will it take? Congressman Lazarus! I'm taking advantage of the lucky situation that you're here. How long do you intend to serve as a curatorium? So, for example, do you have any intention of, say, resigning next year? Or do you intend to fill it until you're 80 and then name your successor? What do you intend to do? But may I ask, Minister Peter Szijjártó, Minister Judit Varga, will you resign next year? So there's going to be a change of government, and the fidesz politicians, who are the current minister, are going to resign? If you resign, why is the legal guarantee not in your law? Why is it that the university senate can't recall these curators? How long will the mandate of the Fidesz politicians appointed by you last? Forever? You can lie, of course, it is very non-Christian, and I particularly recommend this to your attention, but do not try to make anyone believe that this depends on the development of Hungarian higher education. Does the future of Hungarian young people depend on the fact that inexorably embedded Fidesz politicians will have decision-making opportunities over Hungarian universities? That's pretty amazing. So, overall, we can say that there is no connection between state reservation and foundation outsourcing in terms of how universities could be developed, there is no need for privateisation, there is also a need to take steps to improve higher education in Hungary. There is, however, a huge difference in public wealth. Now, according to your motion, a large part of the public wealth will be transferred to private foundations, lost the nature of the public wealth, and then, in any case, a government, a Member of Parliament, will not be able to exercise control, and only your trustee will be able to control decisions made by the Fidesz Members you have planted. Give me a clear explanation as to why the Senate doesn't name the curators. Congressman Vinnai! Why don't you leave this to the university senate? I myself do not agree with the foundation outsourcing, but just if they wanted university autonomy to be strengthened in this way, which I repeat, I do not agree, they submit a law, and they say that the university senate will name the curators, the university senate will determine how long the curator can fill the position, and the university senate can determine under what conditions, how he can recall the members of the board of trustees and, where appropriate, how he will replace them and replace them personally. But it's not like that. The members of the board cannot be proposed by the university, the only member of the three-person supervisory board may be proposed by the university. Here, indeed, their own argument could be supported by the Senate proposing some curators and all members of the Supervisory Board, and the Senate should have the right to determine the conditions for recall and, of course, the duration of the curator's duties. Why aren't there the guarantees required by the university leaders who voted in favour of a change of model? Why are there no guarantees in the law as to what the Board's decision-making powers may or may not extend? So it doesn't specifically say that science-professional questions are not subject to the Board of Trustees. Real estate. There's a huge amount of real estate owned by universities. The current idea is that this property can be sold by universities. Nor is it a criterion that university real estate should be used for higher education purposes. It says that sales income should be used for higher education purposes. But, Congressman Hollik, why doesn't it say that these properties should be used for higher education now? [[István Hollik: Autonomouss, that's why!]] That's pretty amazing. By the way, it's perfectly clear, right, that you have an amazing amount of real estate here, and it shows your intention to have these properties, and you also want to make a decision on the exploitation of these properties. There are many, many questions unanswered! Dear Congressman Peter Hoppál, We have tried to invite you to a debate in Pécs, and you have not been a cowardly participant in this, you love propaganda. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Oh!]] But there have been questions from university citizens in Pécs about what will happen to intellectual property, what will happen to patents, what will happen to training schools. Real estate is very important, but it's the intellectual capital, the tradition that makes it a university. What about this one? What will happen, Your Honour? Of course, you do not care, because you are interested in one thing: Viktor Orbán, or I do not know how to tell you how to press the button, you applaud and press the button; you take on so much responsibility for your own city, your own city and the university that works as the largest employer in your city. And indeed, the question of wage increases. What you've just put into it, a 15-percent wage increase, I hope you'll see that it's not even symbolic. So I said some figures on how shamefully low the wages of higher education workers are now. It's not even symbolic. By the way, try to give some kind of answer, Mr Secretary of State, as to why in 11 years they have not been able to settle the wages of higher education workers. [[12.10]] And the end of the time available is nearing, and there is one thing I would like to talk about. Here, unfortunately, in higher education, the great rural universities also become victims. I think, and in some speeches, I felt that you really have no idea how important these great rural universities are if we only talk about the greatest ones, do they not, Debrecen, Szeged and Pécs. So they have a far greater significance, weight and role than in themselves, which is linked to the higher education function. They are not only the scientific, cultural and economic centers of a city, but also a county, even a region. I will give you an example, and you must know this precisely, Mr Péter Hoppál, the University of Pécs has a significantly higher budget than the municipality of Pécs County. Great economic power: there are 7,000 employees of the University of Pécs, 7,000 families in Pécs or living families in cities where there is a training centre, their fate depends on it. It is amazing, and you will outsource it and put it under political control without any meaningful social dialogue. So we can say that the fate of the major rural universities is intertwined with the cities, counties and regions that host them, with 20,000 students and 27 thousand universities with enormous employment, economic and economic development potential. So such an issue, such a fundamental weight, cannot be decided in weeks, in a procedure supported by government dictatorships and extortion, but should have been a substantive, extensive debate involving social actors, because, yes, these large, significant public universities have an economic, employment and regional development role. You've completely forgotten this, and you've also forgotten that the biggest [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I am sorry, Mr President, the largest rural universities operate in cities which are the centres of the regions in the 20 poorest regions of the Union. So if we are talking about economic development, then these universities are inevitable, so it is an outrageous step in itself that you are practically privatising these universities and putting them under political control. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2021-04-09-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. Dear Parliament, I salute my fellow Members. The debate has been going on for more than three hours, and my fellow Members are sitting in their seats, Mr Secretary of State. Before I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Dialogue, I am ordering a five-minute technical break. (Sunning: 12.12 12.22) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Gergely Arató)
u2021-04-09-21	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-09-22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, Today's debate on the transformation of the higher education system, I think, was very diverse, but there is only one element with which everyone agreed, and this is this: that reform of the higher education system is absolutely necessary. It would have been necessary earlier, and it is still necessary today, and as I have overlooked these legislative proposals, it will still be needed in the future. Now, compared to this, a very important and comprehensive reform is needed, the government has started to rush, and now very quickly, in a few months, it has put down a concept, and it has started the whole transformation quickly during the pandemic period, and it seems to want to overwhelm it in a few months. This is very problematic, on the one hand, because the reasons have already been explained by my colleagues here. This is probably about the government having a midlife crisis, and they don't even believe they can win in 2022, so they want to push everything over as quickly as possible, and they want to put their cadres in the universities, and they want to save the property in private hands. Obviously, it would have been necessary that if the government had wanted to complete a genuine higher education reform, this would have taken time, at least a year or two, or even a longer period, since there would have been three kinds of consensus here. A professional consensus should have been established, in which the people of the profession would have been asked both left-wing and right-wing experts, to tell them what they think, how this transformation could have been done, and then, if the profession had formed a consensus, then a social consensus should have been established, that is to say, how this host society is related to it; and after that, a political consensus would have been very much needed, so that the parties of Parliament would agree on the main elements. It was said here, Mr Secretary of State and from the government's side, Mr Pósán, that long-term agreements with the Government should be signed for 15-20 years. Now, tell me, if there is no political consensus, how can you expect a 15-20-year-old contract with universities to be concluded by the state? What will happen here in the next five to ten years? By the way, Congressman Hiller mentioned this earlier, who would guarantee it then? Therefore, if there is no political consensus on this matter, then a next government can safely claim that, please, the budget does not allow us to comply with this agreement. So it was absolutely necessary. The second thing I would like to say is that a number of people here have obviously referred to it as the rapporteur, too, that the leaders of the universities have decided on their own, and they have even asked for a change of model to take place, and that Congressman Nacsa has directly accused us, and he said that since the Senate voted for this everywhere, we opposition representatives cannot, therefore, question this, because that is how democracy works. When Congressman Nacsa said that, I was thinking of a conversation with my former party secretary at work, and he said why I was questioning the greatness of socialism when over 90 percent of the people in the elections voted for the Patriot's People's Front candidate. The only reason I'm telling you this is to understand the absurd nature of this whole story. I trust that the time will soon come when the discussions that took place in the Ministry will be made public, what the Minister said to the university leaders, because otherwise I have heard back a number of things in which he said that if they do not ask for this on their own now, they will not receive even as much state aid as they did before, and they will fall away from a lot of development resources in the future. So there was an emergency situation everywhere in the university leadership, a situation where they received an irrefutable offer from the Ministry, and they had to decide if they didn't agree to the model change, how they would stand before the teaching colleagues and the workers, that there wouldn't even be as much money as there was before. In other words, this clearly showed that it was not a free choice at all, but an emergency situation, and that when the minutes of these conversations come out at some point, you will be able to see it very well. But by the way, they decided on their own to do something else: trade unions were opposed to this change of model almost everywhere, at all universities, and students also opposed it. I myself participated in an online conference where more than 800 students took part and voted, and over 90 percent rejected this whole change of model. It is also rejected by trade unions, so there is no broad consensus on this matter, even within the university world; and at that time I did not even mention a word about society, because it did not turn out that way, since there was no social debate on this matter. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: There are 20,000 students, not 800!]] You have repeatedly said that autonomy has not been lost by universities: autonomy, academic autonomy will not only remain, but it will be much stronger now than it was before, because from the level of government the administration of universities will be in the hands of the curatoriums, and therefore this is a decentralised thing. Yeah, but here's the thing: the foundational transformation itself, I'd say I'd even consider it acceptable if the current decision only transferred or transferred maintenance rights to the board of trustees, but at the same time the founding rights didn't. [[12.30]] And if we added to this what my fellow Member Lóránt Keresztes also pointed out, that if we gave the Senate the right to amend this type of law, we would say that, say, more than 50 percent or at least 50 percent of the members of the Board of Governors could be elected by the Senate themselves, in this case, autonomy could indeed remain, because, in fact, it would be in his hands for the government, for the government that people choose, there would be the possibility that he would be able to reach into it, because the founder's rights are still in his hands. Thus, the fact that the founder's rights have been removed is that the curatoriums are irreplaceable, so as long as the world is around, they will be there until the end of time, and if any of them are eliminated, then they have the right to renew themselves and choose new people. This is a completely nonsense, by the way, that governments can come and go, but they can't really interfere with this thing, while they didn't actually develop a private university structure, because it can be seen very well from its funding. The next thing I think it is also worth wasting a few words on, and that is what needs need to be met by universities. It has been said here that this transformation, the change of model is necessary because we can better meet market needs or meet the needs of universities, and they will be more competitive and will therefore be able to respond to the challenges of the future. Yes, only if we look at universities that are truly competitive and are indeed the best universities in the world, they have no intention of meeting daily market needs. So, when I spent a year at Princeton University, which is in the top ten universities in the world, there was no mention that they wanted to meet market needs. Rather, it was about meeting scientific trends, recognising them and trying to answer these scientific questions. Then, of course, because of the essence of the matter, if these universities are able to be outstanding in science, then they will obviously be attractive, competitive, and sooner or later the results will appear in innovations and inventions and other things. But it is not possible to sit backwards on the horse to try to find out what the demand for the market is now, as Mr Parragh imagines, and to train for it, because in such a rapidly changing world, I believe that it would be a big mistake to build an education system in line with the current market situation or the current market structure, because in five, six, eight, ten years the output will come out, when another situation becomes another world. In other words, universities must aim at training where there is a general, complex training, where we enable graduates to change their profession, because in this accelerated, accelerated world, no one can guarantee that they will be able to work in accordance with their university degree and that they will be able to retire from it. So that's more what we need. Of course, when we look at a country, the university structure of a country, we cannot be so narrow-minded as to think only about market needs, I say this whole thing as an economist, because education, culture and human capital are much more than that. So I think, too, and here I share my view with my fellow Member Hiller, that it was a crime to transform and outsource rural universities in this way, because it would be very desirable and very important to have a public university network, a national network, because these rural universities also have a significant impact on education, culture, job change, further training and equal opportunities. After all, poor rural children whose parents can't afford to live hundreds of miles away because they can't pay rent and other ancillary fees like this are more likely to send talented children to local universities. However, this is not guaranteed in this new construction at all. You can say, of course, that you can ask the foundation, and you can ask the board to be good enough, be kind enough to move in this direction, but there is no guarantee for that. I'll be back in the board for a moment. So here's the basic question: what can we expect from the curatoriums where there are leaders and members who have no scientific qualifications at all and have no scientific publications. I looked at it earlier when it was the first university's transformation, what their participation in MTMT actually looks like, so in the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, because there are all scientific documents, and it turns out that five of the six university's presidents had zero publications. I'm just asking whether Sándor Csányi, Zsolt Hernádi or Judi Varga, or Mr János Lázár, who is sitting here, has a scientific background, because they have to lead and control a scientific life. I know they'd answer that now that they're only deciding on economic matters. But, please, what they teach, how they teach, what they research depends heavily on what money is available for. These curators may be in a position to determine and determine whether specific courses, courses, trainings or vocational training should be excluded from this whole matter. And I don't understand what title they're doing, because the Fundamental Law still includes the fact that scientific issues have to be decided by the scientific community, so it's for people who have an appropriate scientific qualification for this. Of course, we could also say that it is necessary, Mr Pósán said, because they are in the business world and will bring the impulses from business life that are necessary. But these people aren't in a competitive relationship, so their companies' export performance is zero. These companies can operate at home in Hungary, under artificial, non-market conditions in a monopoly, and that's why they can gain extra profit, but it's not like they can actually stand their ground in a competitive situation. Obviously, if someone had the idea of telling Gábor Bojár, I would say yes, because he has a software company that can produce on the world market, so I could imagine it, but it's hard to imagine. I would like to talk about one more thing, and this is a question of financing and asset allocation. In fact, there is a mule solution here where there are private universities whose management is in the hands of foundations and a board of trustees, and they load the money in the middle of the state, so every year they give a lot of money from the budget. [[12.40]] But there is no mention in these papers of how they actually do it then, of what mechanisms they do it, because that is actually the essence of it. Therefore, this question should have been asked first of all as to whether it would be possible to develop normative mechanisms that could properly finance universities, so that it could in any case support a quality set of requirements, or, if necessary, a state or even market needs. So, in order for the state to say, please, I would like to train 500 graduates, and then I would ask universities to offer offers, so that they can train these 500 people, in what way, in what quality they can produce, and then it could be financed accordingly. So this would be a legitimate question, but there hasn't been a word about this at all until now, which is very important, and this obviously doesn't require that the whole thing be in a form of foundation, because the method and mechanism of financing itself could easily fit into the current state ownership system. As a matter of fact, there were experiments in the previous ones, but then Fidesz began to degrade them, when he said that then the third leg, the scientific foot, did not matter, then he brought it back again, that now it does matter. So there could and should be serious debates on this whole issue, but it is obviously not about that, but about the saving of assets and the placement of cadres. It's very interesting to know that when I watched the asset transfer and the asset transfer, I didn't see the wealth in the inventory. So I didn't see the value of the human capital, the value of the relationship capital, or the part where the accredited educational directions are, textbooks, licenses, inventions. So if you look at the inventory at the University of Pécs, I've looked at it, there's nothing of it, and it's one of the most important things. So the greatest wealth is, in fact, the wealth of knowledge, but apparently, because the government sees and feels that it can't steal this property, because people who are carriers of this wealth go to work in the morning and go home at night, and if they see that the whole thing doesn't work well, if there's not enough freedom and democracy, they might as well leave this ship. Now, of course, you could see that very well and you could see it very well. So they don't care about it, just the physical property that will be attributed in some way, so they only listen to it and consider it crucial. However, I think that we should focus on this wealth and that this should be properly expanded, but I think that this can only be done if there really is democratic relations and if the autonomy of the university continues or remains. If this does not persist, then obviously this knowledge wealth will decrease more and more, no matter how much you say that this change of model will happen. I, for my part, am very sad and saddened to see this whole transformation process, because when I was young, I experienced it from the beginning of the 1970s as a student, and then as an intern, as a teaching assistant, as an assistant assistant, I went through the donkey ladder, how the universities were emancipated during the socialist period, that from a oppressed situation, I managed to gain some autonomy and to pursue better quality education and research. In the '80s and '90s, this has spread very nicely, and now, in this whole change, I simply see the past coming back, that politics is once again gaining hold of this whole thing, and that the period of Marxism-Leninism evening universities, the Foximax period, because to such an extent this kind of transformation method does not respect and this announced model change does not recognise university autonomy, and does not realize that it is only possible to achieve a truly high level of education and scientific research if, on the one hand, the financial conditions of this are created, and, on the other hand, it also creates a free and democratic relationship. Thus, I and the Dialogue cannot support this bill, and I promise that, if it is possible in 2022, this law must definitely be abolished among the first ones, because it is extremely harmful for the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-09-23	Thank you very much, Congressman Mellar. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the representative of the nationality of the committee representing the nationalities, so I give the floor [[Some opposition representatives are speaking out loud. The president's ringing the bell.]] Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-09-24	[[No microphones.]] Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlägens, die wir jetzt und hier debattieren, erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to explain on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary... [[Interjection: Microphone!]] I'm sorry. [[He's strapping up the microphone.]] Excuse me. Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the legislative proposals to be discussed here and now. At its meeting on 7 April 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary was associated with the T/15727 requested for the pre-national agenda item. University of Debrecen, T/15724. University of Nyíregyháza, T/15718. University of Pécs, T/1576. University of Tokaj-Hegyalja, T/15715. T/15712, Eszterházy Károly University on the transformation of Szeged University and T/15710. and conducted a general debate on the draft law on public-interest trust foundations. These legislative proposals relate to higher education institutions in which the Tokaj-Hegyalja University can, as far as I know, pursue ethnic education, so they have a sensitive impact on indigenous nationalities in Hungary. At the same time, we have not been able to call for a nationality item on the T/15728 on the regulation of higher education and on the amendment of certain related laws. Legislative proposal No.2 given that it was submitted after the last meeting of the House Committee, but now we have the opportunity to comment on this bill in the general debate together. In order to be better informed, our Commission was ahead of these legislative proposals, as Dr. István Stumpf was already invited to the meeting of the Committee on 24 March 2021, Commissioner of the Government responsible for coordinating government tasks related to the change of model and the operation of the new maintenance model, and Dr. Zoltán Hankó, Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology for Higher Education. After our meeting on 7 April 2021, I had the opportunity, on behalf of the Committee, to discuss the matter in private, but more effectively, because of the pandemic situation, with the Secretary of State Dr. József Bódis. [[12.50]] I would like to point out that we do not wish to take part in the political part of the debate on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, and I am restricting my contribution solely to issues of nationality. In recent years, we have taken significant steps in the field of education, teaching, teaching and teaching, as well as in the field of higher education in nationality. Allow me to provide you with a very short, sketchy information on the results of the work carried out by the nationality committee in recent years in this area and on the problems that remain unchanged. In 2016, we developed and adopted the national education programme. Between 2017 and 2019 we have raised four times the first and most important element of this by extending the minority pedagogue bonus, which now represents an annual surplus of HUF 3.5 billion to nearly 4 thousand ethnic teachers. In 2018, we introduced the minority educator scholarship, in which we signed contracts with 436 national educators for the current year 2020/21. The annual budget for the entire scholarship programme is 380 million HUF. In 2019 we launched the support of national education centres with HUF 100 million. Unfortunately, because of the Covid epidemic, in 2020 we did not have the opportunity to continue and extend this. In 2020, by amending the law on the rights of nationalities, we ensured that movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the educational and educational tasks of public education institutions taken over by national authorities should be transferred free of charge to the owner of the national minority self-government. This concerns a total of 8 nationalities involving 104 ethnic educational institutions in 78 municipalities. I have just reported to this House yesterday the detailed results of this report on T/15706. in the general debate of the bill on certain provisions relating to the management of assets. In summary, I am pleased to note that, despite all the difficulties, some 40 percent of the ownership transfers have already taken place, and more than 50 percent will be successfully completed within weeks. There are only eight public education institutions where, for legal proceedings, heritage protection and other reasons, this is likely to take longer. At the same time, with all our efforts and positive results, we have not been able to make any progress in the education of nationality teachers in terms of its numericality, quality, nationality language competence, funding and other areas. It is quite clear that, without high standards of nationality educator training, it is impossible to maintain a permanent quality of ethnic education, the language and culture of nationality, even though the Fundamental Law of Hungary guarantees this for all indigenous nationalities in Hungary, and it is the responsibility of the Hungarian State to ensure the conditions. In recent years, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, together with several national ethnic authorities, has made significant efforts to improve and resolve the problems and difficulties associated with the almost continuous development of ethnic education in higher education. Let me just report a few cases from the past period. Despite the fact that more than 90 percent of the students are students of German and Croatian ethnic teachers, an English major was appointed as head of the Eötvös József College. At the University of Pécs, the support of the German Foundation Department, founded together with the German State, has so far been financed separately, entered into the university's big hat, from then on the position of the department hangs in the air, and the position of head of the department has not been announced. There have been a series of indications that in several training places the smaller numbers will not start the Serbian, Slovak, Croatian, Ukrainian or even Bulgarian training, even though two or three ethnic educators represent the survival and preservation of a minority public education institution. To date, there has been no acceptance of the establishment of a nationality profession in the basic education of infants and young children. The proposed significant increase in the proportion of nationality language training has not been adopted in the context of the proposals for Bologna Revision. It is unacceptable for nationalities in Hungary that only 15-20 percent of the training in the teaching of ethnic education takes place in the minority language, the other Hungarians; at least the reverse of this would be necessary. In recent years, the support of the Faculties of Humanities and Humanities has been increased at ELTE, but not the norm of the primary education courses of ethnicity and kindergarten educator. In the case of ELTE-TÓK, to compensate for this, the previously provided HUF 63 million supplement and the HUF 10 million write-down support were no longer provided separately in 2021, and although ELTE received 1.1 billion more support, the Senate decided that ELTE-TÓK did not receive one of these forints back. In the last autumn, ELTE Origo wanted to terminate the language exams of 13 so-called smaller languages, including 5 ethnic languages. Following long negotiations, in recent weeks we have been able to secure, together with the ITM, the amounts of funding and support that could be saved or recovered. In the meantime, ELTE Origo has either converted or partially switched to online language testing, and the problems in this area have been re-produced. It could be long-term, these minor or major problems related to nationality training are different in almost all training places, but they appear. We consider it a systemic general problem that, while at all levels of nationality public education, in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, vocational schools, for all institutions which are responsible for education and education of nationality, at least the right of opinion is guaranteed by law, and in the case of nationality public education institutions, there is a right of agreement, i.e. a right of veto in all substantive decisions of the national authorities concerned, whereas in the decisions of higher education concerning ethnic education, ethnicities in Hungary have neither the right to agree nor to comment on educational institutions, nor the fundamental orientation is extremely cumbersome and cumbersome, most of the time afterwards, the decisions of universities and colleges concerning ethnic education, which are detrimental to us. In the field of higher education, the 2011 CCIV provides information on the coordination with nationalities. Article 64 of the National Higher Education Act. Paragraph 4 of the Act requires: The Minister obtains the opinion of the National National Nationality Council in his decisions regarding ethnic education. If, under the national minority rights law, the national minority self-government initiates the establishment of conditions for higher education in the mother tongue or mother tongue..., it will ensure the conditions. [[13.00]] At the same time, in the new universities undergoing a model change, which are going to become a foundation reserve, the Boards will take over the role of the State as a maintainer, and instead of the Minister, the Boards will decide, for example, on the strategic issues of universities dealing with ethnic education, including, of course, on issues relating to ethnic education, so I believe that the obligation to obtain opinions required by the Higher Education Act should also be extended to the Board's decisions on ethnic education. Unfortunately, as I mentioned at the outset, our committee was unable to link itself to the bill enabling this, to discuss bill 15723 concerning the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws, so we cannot submit any amendments at Commission level. I'm about to file this as a motion for self-representation on Monday morning. Thus, in the case of a higher education institution in the form of a foundation, the Board of Trustees obtains the opinion of the National Council of Nationality in its decisions on nationality training. I would also like to point out, in general, that the planned 3- to 5-year grant contracts between the state and the foundations must include guarantees that in the coming years economic and other aspects do not jeopardise nationality training, since it is clear that the education of nationality should never, from an economic point of view, be the most profitable area for a university to support its survival. I ask with respect that our amendment in this respect be supported by this House. If we receive adequate guarantees about the future of national education, then the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary will support the legislative proposals. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2021-04-09-25	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. Dear Parliament, The first independent Member who has applied may speak, so I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-09-26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, What's going on in front of our eyes, what's coming out of this package of laws, is the new three t's of the Orbán system: conscious, plan-like, and legitimized looting. In plain sight, 10 million people are looting their own citizens. The problem is, when I say those words, I know they're already inflected. We've used, used so much in the last 12 years, we've had a high social threshold for every law of public wealth that all governments would fall into within a few days, it's gonna be a couple of days of press news, and we'll turn and go on like before, and that's a big problem. When I say it's a statutory looting, I use the word "adapted" because I would like to indicate that the "adapted" and the "legal" are not the same. The fact that 133 courageous pro-government representatives will accept this does not make it legal, because the law must always serve the common good, which is the basis of all laws, the law. If this intention is not found, if the service of the common good is not revealed from a law, it cannot be legitimate even if it is legally accepted. Will you tell me how the common good would be served by Fidesz and KDNP mayors, Members of Parliament, ministers sitting in foundations that will then give direction to university leaders and senates, exercising maintenance rights? However, the change in the model of higher education institutions is only one slice of this. I have to agree with András Schiffer, who spoke about the fact that Hungary is currently being outsourced. Government tasks, not only national assets, but also government tasks, are being organised into structures that remain with you even after a possible change of government. The elected Hungarian government with popular representation and authority will have no control over it at all, since only by resignation or death will the appointment and the possibility of acting differently in the case of foundations supervising higher education institutions and universities will cease. It's basically a second spontaneous privatisation, which is as spontaneous as the first one, almost nothing. As clumsy as it sounds, it is true that nothing else matters to you, and there is nothing else to do with these laws but power without a time limit, unlimited money and power that will be concentrated among you and those close to you. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: One more time! I didn't get it.]] The question arises as to why they are doing all this, what is the underlying concept, what is the plan. I think that Viktor Orbán has learned a lot. He learned a great deal from Kádár, József Antall, Gyula Horn, and learned a great deal from the mistakes of his first government. The communist nomenclature, if this term still tells you anything, has resulted in the transition of power after 1989, that the government of the first freely elected government of the third republic, József Antall, has been in a national slump for four years against the communist deep state, and the movement path of the first Orbán government has been constantly bound by the limits of the communist nomenclature, the political and economic power that has been saved. I would like to read to you a quote from Viktor Orbán in 1994, by the way, to József Debre-czeni, former MP of MDF, a journalist, I quote him, the Prime Minister's words: "There is no department in this bloody country where the people who can prepare a spiritual change of government would be sitting today. There's no cards, no radios, no TV channels. None. End of subpoena. I think it is very important to see that Viktor Orbán, who saw these processes this way in 94, and has clearly learned lessons from his governance even after the governance between 94 and 98. What kind of conclusion did you come to? I think the conclusion was that we should build our own deep state against the communist deep state supported by the West. We've been witnessing this since 2010. The outsourcing of the country to a point was acceptable to many and even eligible. The promise of raising the national capital class, I am sure that between 1998 and 2002 and after 2010, not only a lot of voters, but a lot of Members, including you, who were already sitting in these benches, have been relieved of conscience. When the abuse of power came, the abuse of power came, and it could be explained to a point that it had to be bludgeoned, the balance restored. Conservative rural intellectuals and capital citizenship have turned a blind eye to you for a long, long time because of the excesses. The tortured, but always hoping for change, middle class supported you for a very long time because they hoped to restore the kind of balance between the old post-communist elite and the new national capital class you promised. Many have also seen or expected their own rise in raising this new capital class, called national. They expected the new national capitalists to serve them as well. When you're in your own constituency talking to right-wing voters, those who still have the guts to tell you their criticism, I'm sure a lot of people will tell you that that's not what they expected. What may have seemed fair and even legitimate between 98 and 2002 and after 2010 was no longer possible beyond one point. [[13.10]] Somehow, what happened was that the snowball started, it started rolling under its own weight, and there was no stopping. The fact that such packages of laws come before the House not only proves that they have been eroded, wiped out all internal brakes, balance, dam and control, but that they cannot stop on this train, they cannot pull the handbrake. The little ball has really eaten everything, eaten the whole village, but he's still hungry, and he goes and eats, and whatever gets in his way eats everything. The Prime Minister gives the impression of a person, not necessarily in appearances, like an addictive, severely drug addict, who is reaching for stronger drugs and increasing dosages, needing more and more heavy, more severe drugs, in increasing doses. The fact that casinos could be open near the peak of the third wave of the epidemic, when everyone else had to close for weeks, is that we are building a Chinese university out of 540 billion forints, when Hungarian universities are not on the tree line in the ranking of European universities. At this time, the communist dictatorships, such as the 66 billion-dollar hunting exhibition of 10 tons of deer antlers, came to life. Whose brain is this coming out of, and how does that even get to feasibility? These are the things we used to freak out about in the textbook when we read the deranged dictators of third world countries that God, we pity or laugh, or we're terrified of who came up with it. And this is right here in front of us, at the gates of a corona virus pandemic, an economic hiccup, 10 tons of deer antlers. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Where is this in the presentation?]] Not in the presentation, it is a symptom, my fellow Member, the deer antlers and the Chinese university from 540 billion forints. The thing is that the majority of them do not agree with this, the majority of their right-wing voters do not agree with this, they are just saying that you are even more than Gyurcsány, because that is why the election has become simple, that you are Gyurcsány. Congratulations, you have managed to achieve a hard 11 years of work to raise, slap, and instead of the promised accountability that you promised before 2010, instead of having Ferenc Gyurcsány accounted for, you would have been able to account for all the leading politicians who, before 2010, were hard and thick enough to get to where this country has come, not just to get away with accountability, but to be the leader of the opposition. You can show me where you're sitting, Congressman Nacha. Well, why are they sitting there? That's because you let them do it because the media went down. That's why they keep him alive, so they force the opposition on a list with Ferenc Gyurcsány, who was openly threatening the walls of this House the day before yesterday, with Peter James, who is waving the potatoes, because they know that this is the behavior [[Dr. Peter Hoppál applauds.]] What repels the majority of people, pushes those who want to change uncertain, and keeps your camp together, that's why they're doing it. What's the goal? Your aim is to put the next government, however colorful it may be, in a position such as that of József Antall after the communist nomenclature, that, despite their government, they will not decide, because the decree over the country, the national wealth, is and will be in the hands of economic and business circles that are linked to you. From energy sources to prosecutors and courts to the media, now the universities, everything will be in your hands. Unfortunately, the direct consequence of this is that the 2022 election has less and less real stakes. More precisely, it is not the stakes that you and the leading opposition parties are trying to make believe who will make a real difference. No, that's not gonna be the bet for the 2022 election. The stakes of the 2022 election will be either your deep state building, the loss of the middle class, the outsourcing of Hungary against the oligarchs, as András Schiffer said, or an opposition victory, and the war between the government and the deep state will begin. From this you can choose, this is what is on the menu: deep state building, unscrupulous looting and robbery, or war, which is now taking place in Budapest. And those who want to be represented by a sober, moderate civilian force instead of looting and war can rely only on the Civic Response movement in Hungary today, but can count on us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. Dr. Peter Hoppál: Go!]]
u2021-04-09-27	Thank you very much, Congressman János Bencsik. We're about to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz.
u2021-04-09-28	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, There's been a lot of comments, which can be described as a political spree. There was only one speech that could make us think meaningfully. István Hiller raised the question that university standards and maintenance were related and that universities would be more competitive with the change of models. I think it's really a serious question, and it's worth thinking about, and all the rest of it was just a political buzz. Well, here's what I think. It's worth looking at the specifics. Can a university do, say, drug research? I have to say, of course, you know, you know scientifically, but the benefit of that is certainly not staying with him, because a drug research today looks like about one or two of 10,000 molecules they can utilize. By the time we get to the point that anything can be manufactured from it, the period that patent rights provide will be significantly shortened, so essentially the inventor will sell his own spiritual knowledge and the benefits will remain in companies. What's the solution? Let's make it possible for universities to set up joint ventures. But in order to do so, it is also necessary to change the statuses in order to be able to be involved in economic life. The same is true in the area of patient care. The public health care system is part of the university, but it is good to know that there has been a demand for medical care in Hungary for a long time from abroad, along the Austrian border it has been a long time, but it is in more and more places. In today's circumstances, for example, universities' clinical systems cannot provide paid private services, not because they would be at the expense of the other, but also because of their capacity, while private providers, healthcare providers are created, and human resources are largely based on the scientific capacity of the Hungarian university. What's the solution? Let us allow the legal environment to resolve this. And you could give examples. So, Mr House, I think that there is a link between maintenance change and quality. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-09-29	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Peter Hoppál for two minutes. I can't give it to you because it was fidesz, so I can only give it to you in the next round. Excuse me. Then we have a pre-notified speaker, Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz. He'll talk about the pulpit from here. You have the floor, Congressman Hörchik.
u2021-04-09-30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, According to the tradition, Péter Perényi crown guard founded a Protestant school in Sárospatak 490 years ago, which later became a college involving several institutions, such as the high school, theology, theological and legal academy. In response to the challenge of modern times, József Árvay was led by a Reformed Teaching Institute in 1857. Based on the research of historians, we know that the country's most well-known Reformed colleges, such as Sárospatak, did not open their higher academy classes until later, as did Debrecen and Pope, and according to the sources, the 17th. At the beginning of the 20th century, she was a member of the colleges of full-structure higher education. For centuries, this has constantly shaped the role that Sárospatak has today in the field of education. This town is called Bodrog-party Athens or the Hungarian Cambridge for a reason. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the legislative proposals that we are discussing now brings to this House the matter of the University of Tokaj-Hegyalja, the foundation of this university, next to a number of model-shifting universities. [[13.20]] And this brings to the agenda not only the city of Sárospatak, but also the entire Tokaj-Hegyal, which every Zemplén citizen can be proud of. Ladies and gentlemen, This new Tokaj-hegyalja university is about to merge the two most important values of my constituency and add its pride, these Tokaj wine and the centuries-old educational-educational, universal and Protestant heritage or tradition. In Zemplén, in particular Hegyalyan, the industrial activity in the centre of the wine sector, agriculture and the county of Sátoraljaújhely, was historically of great importance, and we could rely on the jobs offered by the light industry. Without a detailed historical presentation, I would like to point out that the existence of industrial jobs created over the past decade by the efforts of the Zemplén municipalities to create jobs, as well as by significant government subsidies, cannot doubt that these two values, the Tokaj wine and education, and tourism based on our natural values and gastronomics, I mentioned earlier, can provide an outstanding perspective for the citizens of Zemplén in the future. Tokaj-Hegyalja, my fellow Members, has always been a wine region protected by special legal rules, closed since 1737, the most famous Hungarian brand name in the world, and yet so far there has been a lack of higher education infrastructure and training opportunities capable of transferring the knowledge of grape culture and winemaking from the region's training landscape. And where else should a key training centre be focused primarily on the areas mentioned above, as in the wine region that is decisive for the reputation of the whole country? I believe that the higher education institution based in Sárospatak can play a role and tradition similar to that of the mining and metallurgy institute of the Selmec Academy established in 1735 in these regionally important fields of science. Dear House, Of course, we cannot hide the fact that the Tokaj-Hegyalja University will be taken under its wing as a public-service trust fund, which we have heard that many have a tendency to dispute. The foundations of the new performance funding system of higher education institutions will enter into force as of 1 September 2021, as we know, and the Minister of Innovation and Technology, on behalf of the Government, will conclude a 15-25-year strategic agreement and a 3-5-year financing contract with the maintenance fund for model-shifting institutions, ordering special regional and third mission tasks for education, training, research and other public tasks. One of the legislative proposals before us will require that a public-service trust fund can only be operated with significant wealth and capital power, especially as this stable economic basis is also required by the quality and smooth performance of the public task, and this property, my fellow Members, is made up of any element, including intangible assets. This is how Grand Tokaj Zrt. becomes the maintainer of the Tokaj-Hegyalja University. its stock package as well as the buildings belonging to Comenius Campus on the Patak, including the college building designed by Lechner, the college and the school hotel, as well as the educational centre. Of course, this does not preclude the expansion of the portfolio of assets assigned to the university, as this is what we can see in the county of the University of Miskolc in the Megye of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén. It is also a subject of regular discussion as to the changes that foundational maintenance brings to educators and students. As has already been said on several occasions in this House, the principle of performance must prevail and this ensures progress, the possibility of progress, and the rise in wages. Ladies and gentlemen, The rest of the year 2021, in the event of the adoption of the bill before us, will impose a number of tasks on us at home, in Tokaj-Hegyal. It is necessary to strengthen, develop and register existing training, accredited courses, and, therefore, to set up a university organisation, and to establish a link between the new institution and urban and regional stakeholders such as schools, cultural institutions and the eco-sphere of the institution. I believe that this foundation is a historic step, a historic task and an opportunity for us. In addition to the Reformed Theological Academy of Sárospataki, the Rákóczi Museum of the Hungarian National Museum or the public education institutions in the region that function as a practical place, the economic operators involved in the training can be classified as being able to make the departure rolling and the development stronger. The development of the university with the international Viticultural Wine Training, and let me add, the educational training with the Comenius values, then tourism education programmes and cultural heritage research activities may be suitable for the social and economic catching up of Zemplén and Tokaj-Hegyalja in the long term. Well, this is the framework of which the Parliament now appoints with this bill before us. Ladies and gentlemen, On 1 August 2021, with the establishment of the independent Tokaj-Hegyalja University, a new historical opportunity will be opened to the citizens of Zemplén, as an independent higher education institution will be created that will be fully based on regional conditions, but will also be able to express itself in a national and even international context. As Abaúj and Zemplén, I would like to thank the government, in particular Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, for the large-scale investment in regional infrastructure in the last decade: rail-electricisation, the M30 motorway, the four-banding of 37 in Tokaj-Hegyalja, the renovation of the rich Abaúj and Zemplén heritage, castles and castles, and, in particular, we thank you for continuing this development curve, since this year the development programme of the Tokaj and Zemplén region with a historical dimension of another 150 billion, which is an integral part of, or I could say, its continuation, gives an intellectual background to the establishment of the said Tokaj-Hegyalja University. Ladies and gentlemen, We make history in this regard, and we create it in Tokaj-Hegyalja. And here I would like to thank István Stumpf, my former creek student, the decorated citizen of Újhely and Patak, for the change of structure of the Hungarian universities and, of course, for his excellent work on Tokaj-Hegyalja University, as well as the contribution of Minister Palkovics and the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, A large, far-sighted undertaking must therefore now create its conditions. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, as a Member of Parliament of the region, to support the legislation necessary for the establishment of the University of Tokaj-Hegyalja, including the related legislative amendments. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-09-31	Thank you very much, Congressman Richard Hörcsik. The next speaker is Mr György Szilágyi, from the Jobbik Group. [[13.30]]
u2021-04-09-32	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the trial of the law set before us, we have generally talked about foundations, or, as appropriate, because most foundations concern higher education, there have been speeches about the problems of higher education. Allow me to talk about the MOL New Europe Foundation from this set of laws, and through this I shall try to demonstrate the oddities and maladministration that may arise in practice in relation to the operation of these foundations. Of course, the legal institution of public-service trust foundations also applies to this proposal, and it is undoubtedly justified to stress that the legal form to be introduced is a new form of privatisation of national property, which does not serve national interests. The tasks of the State in relation to the management of national assets are laid down and detailed in a series of laws and lower laws. These laws provide guarantees that decisions taken in the management of assets are sound, traceable, verifiable and accountable. In the case of public-service trust foundations, without all these guarantees, the board of political appointees shall be entitled to use, exploit or use the property. This fact in itself is equal to the miscarriage of national wealth. According to the bill, MOL's New Europe Foundation would receive about 5 percent of MOL's shares, which is the last stock package owned directly by the Hungarian State. The stock package in question contains ordinary shares currently held by the State through MNV Zrt. and the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. Viktor Orbán himself stressed the importance of MOL's national economy, and then bought in 2011 the share package from the IMF loan of nearly EUR 2 billion, the last part of which is intended to be played out by foundations over which the state can no longer exercise direct control in the future. We cannot question the strategic importance of MOL, which is why it is particularly painful that Viktor Orbán is now trying to squander this asset. However, let us look at the tasks of the MOL New Europe Foundation and, quite precisely, its public tasks, which should be carried out from the national assets allocated to it. It's called a public task to care for talent. Talent management covers sports, art and science. The aim of this foundation will be to support talented children, professionals and organisations in this area. The proposal does not specify anything closer, so within this relatively broad area, the foundation is practically spending its money on what the nation's wealth is, right, whatever it wants it to do. For example, it would be possible for talented inventors who have made a significant contribution to two-factor authentication to grant a one-time or regular scholarship to the Foundation, even for the rest of their lives. I see you're looking at me a little confused. If it were not clear to everyone what the two-factor authentication is, then I would suggest asking their fellow Member, Antal Rogán, who is sitting in the pro-government benches, who, in addition to being a Member of Parliament, is a member of the government, even has time and energy for this significant IT development. If anyone thinks my words are sarcastic, I would point out that WO/2016/027111. Antal Rogán did not receive a small amount of protection registered in the registration number from just anyone, but from Telekom, the global company, therefore, made a significant contribution beyond any doubt. Such versatile inventors will certainly have to be supported by the new foundation. But I could mention, say, Zsolt Borkai, as an outstanding athlete, who, following his sports career, created a significant role in the field of adult film and not only played a film role, but also had a great impact on the whole Hungarian society with his work, and also focused on talent management. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Zsolt Gréczy!]] Since in a few days an emerging young twin party has been made known nationwide, and an unrecognized proverb has been presented to Hungarians, which included only a few known animal physiology observations, that the horse is watching, the foal is seeing, and the rest you, I think, you know, may not only be from words, but also from practice. So he created a significant piece in the field of cinema, but Zsolt Borkai has not been paid for it to this day. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's face it, these are extraordinary performances that call for support at all costs, you may think that if this foundation is already operational. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Gaming ATM money!]] The Foundation will have a further well-known public mission to carry out the grant intermediary activity. Support in the field of economic development programmes, in the field of environmental protection and in the field of top sport. Indeed, there is a great deal of work to be done in the field of aid mediation, especially in the area of economic development, and the state is in need of all the help it can get. Members of Fidesz regularly try to solve the difficult task of providing support, just think of György Simonka, István Happy or Roland Mengyi. They have also done a lot to improve the effectiveness of economic development programmes, but let's face it, we need more effective and different kinds of assistance. Institutional action is needed in this very important and economical area. The new foundation will also be able to solve this task officially, of course following the Simonka, Happy and Mengyi method, and then everything will be fine, as you can already do this activity legally. The third public task the new foundation has to perform is charity. Charity is most widely understood on the basis of the text of the bill. Charity is something that warms the hearts of all well-spoken people, creating an image of altruism and desire to help everyone. Charity is a wonderful thing, and many NGOs do this in our country, and most of them are linked to some church, who selflessly and often volunteer to do these tasks. There is only one problem with charitable activity: this is a voluntary task, not a mandatory task for the state, and therefore, in the case of charitable activity, it is in vain that Congressman Nacsa is not able to talk about the performance of a public task. Sadly, the state does not or does not perform well and people are in an unfair situation. This unfair situation is being helped by the charities that voluntarily carry out this activity. Charity is therefore an activity to alleviate problems caused by the inadequacy of the State. If we create a new player for this kind of activity, then the government itself recognises that it is incapable of carrying out public tasks as defined by the law. With this aim in mind, I do not think that a new organisation should be created, but rather that it is necessary to correct the flawed processes of government by means of which unfair situations have arisen, which have caused people to get into trouble. The planned MOL New Europe Foundation would therefore carry out all the socially useful and valuable activities that the Fidesz administration cannot perform in other forms within other institutional frameworks. With various foundations, the government has already had several creative experiments in previous years. Unfortunately, in the case of these foundations, the primary objective was to lose the public money and, as a result, to spend it inaccessible, uncontrollable and unaccountable. [[13.40]] In spite of the court's statement that the abuse of public funds in this form is illegal, the change of legislation, whether it be a law or the Fundamental Law of Szájer's rigour, is just a move for honourable pro-government Members. The proposed legislation clearly creates the possibility of an opaque spending of public funds, therefore it is not in the interest of the nation, but also contrary to the principles of the Szájer Fundamental Law. Disabling national assets in this form, removing them from public control, is a concept of organised crime, if you will, nothing more than a state-level banditism. Overall, I think that in this serious situation, which requires the lives of thousands of our countrymen, you are not abandoning the practice that has been consistent for more than ten years: you are not ruling for the common good, you are only looking at how to legalize what, by virtue of a normal legal order, would simply be a public theft, or how you can ensure yourself for the very future time when you will no longer be in government, and you cannot do anything without punishment in this country. That is all you're going to do, and in the meantime, you're going to do all the crap, and you're going to do some dark business inside Parliament when you're submitting such legislative proposals. So once again, I can say what I said at the end of my speech as a speaker: shame on you, even if you are unable to do so. Thank you for listening.
u2021-04-09-33	Thank you very much, Congressman György Szilágyi. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-04-09-34	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to start from a little further away. During the Covid period, I had the opportunity to attend a national holiday in Argentina, and our ambassador there told me that at that time ambassadors from the EU Member States had compiled a publication on famous people who enriched Argentina's culture from that country. And it was a great idea for us Hungarians to include in this publication, because in the country on the other side of the world, where there are quite a small number of Hungarian diasporas, a few thousand Hungarians had to choose from among the following personalities: Lajos Szalay, XX. The greatest graphic designer of the century, about whom even Pablo Picasso said that if two graphic designers were to be said in the XX. From the century, Lajos Szalay and Picasso Pablo, but if only one, then Lajos Szalay. The other János Czetz, who escaped to Argentina as a soldier in 48, founded the Argentine military academy, and could only be a colonel and not a higher rank because he was not born in Argentina. Thirdly, there was László Bíró, the inventor of the ballpoint pen, after which the ballpoint pen is called a bull in Argentina to this day, and a biro pen in English. I bring this here because perhaps a small personal example shows that, despite Hungary's small size, Hungary is an extremely talented country, our greatest competitive advantage is the Hungarian mind, Hungarian reason and Hungarian ingenuity. Many say that this comes from the particular logic and philosophy of the Hungarian language. If this is the case, then what should we do with regard to higher education? To preserve this Hungarian competitive advantage, the Hungarian mind, and even strengthen this competitive advantage as far as possible. Therefore, a debate on higher education cannot be about anything other than how the institutional system of higher education can serve this purpose. Of course, when we talk about this, we have to say that it can only be a good and effective transformation that cooperates with those who work in higher education either as students or as academics, so it can only work with the Senate. What was strange to me was that we heard everything here, blackmail, coercion, all kinds of accusations were made, but none of the left-wing representatives considered that the leaders who took responsibility for their universities found that this model change helped their institutions to develop. [[Zoltán Varga: And the theft!]] You don't even think about that. Here's the example of another yelling! You can't think of that, probably because you're on your own. [[Zoltán Varga: No! That's because we've been seeing what you've been doing for ten years. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] If I may make a parallel: there has been a parliamentary election in Hungary, in 14 and in 18 since 2010, and there we have also seen in the case of the left that, after the majority of the people did not entrust you with government, they have not come to the conclusion by chance that you have done something wrong. They blamed the Hungarian people, accused us of cheating, so obviously the Fidesz was to blame there too, but the fact that you would have done anything wrong, or you would have thought anything wrong, well, that element didn't even occur to you. And that is also the case now, so when it is quite clear that the Senate has decided on this, they have discussed this issue, some where they have decided unanimously, some where only by a small majority, but you ignore this as if it had not happened, because this reality would not fit into your alternative left-wing reality. Moreover, the reality does not confirm what you have outlined here, because the change of model does not start today, because there are institutions where this has a long history. I'd like to refer to the Corvinus, wouldn't I? It was Vice-President Hiller alone who allowed himself to say that we cannot draw far-reaching conclusions from this, but that this change of model in the case of Corvinus could not be clearly stated, and that this change of model in the case of Corvinus would have been a failure. But it also shows in the case of the other speakers that reality does not necessarily interfere with your clarity; nor does it seem that Corvinus has 26 percent more applicants than ever before. So what you can see is that users of higher education, end-users who, by the way, decide where they can get competitive knowledge themselves, do not share your opinion in an interesting way, because if they did, then it should mean that Corvinus would have had significantly fewer employees than before, but this is not the case. If I may, I would like to respond to a few comments, which were also largely addressed by Vice-President Hiller, because the accusations of the others are part of the daily party policy filth and are not worthy of an answer. Mr Vice-President said that, in fact, state involvement in higher education is decreasing, and he condemned it, and said that this was wrong. I would just like to draw his attention to the fact that the others were discussing a reduction in autonomy. But the two go against it: it's either greater autonomy or greater public engagement. So, anyway, left-wing parties should decide which direction they want to move in. In fact, it has even been said that this government task, the operation of higher education, has actually been outsourced and, in fact, the government will no longer assume any responsibility for higher education. I think that this statement does not stand the test of reality either, because if you look at the fact that there will be a HUF 1500 billion development resource in higher education, which is obviously going to be used by universities on the basis of cooperation with the state, it is also an important public engagement. [[13.50]] But there's still funding. The State will continue to participate in the financing, as has been said here, encouraging foundations operating universities to conclude long-term, operational agreements with the State on financing. At the same time, the transfer of the State to its role as a customer gives the State the opportunity to finally start or stimulate competition between universities. So I think that public engagement will not cease and will have beneficial effects. Many criticisms have been given to the government's legitimate remark that this change of model will make universities more efficient and ultimately make them competitive. There have been criticisms of how competitiveness can be measured at all. I'd jump back one more time, because competitiveness is a good word, it says that the person is capable of the competition. If we look at Hungarian higher education today, we may have to say that some of its players are able to compete, but that they were not encouraged to compete on their own, that is for sure. So it may be competitive, although I think it is becoming less and less, this is also the reason for the change of model, but the system of higher education was not at all interested in going to the market by higher education institutions and competing with other universities. The issue of quality and quantity has also been identified by Mr Vice-President. I think there's a very important difference between us. Mr President, I thought you said that in the former socialist period, the aim was to make as many graduates as possible, and that in 2011 the civilian government broke up and that we focused on quality. I think it's a misconception. I don't think it's possible to compare quality and quantity to each other and to say that it's either "or-or-or; in our opinion, it's -- and--and--and--and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and... By the way, I understand that, based on the results of socialist governments, the Bologna system is indeed that conclusion, that system has issued significantly more degrees, but it has also been seen that the quality of higher education has been reduced. So you can conclude that increasing the quantity is at the expense of quality. But I don't think that's necessary. This system, which brings in greater responsibility for operators and competition between them, will prove that this is possible. I also remember those outstanding left-wing economists who said that economic growth cannot be stimulated and that great economic growth can be achieved without, by the way, a reduction in public debt and a consolidation of the budget. They said it wasn't possible at the same time. The only way to boost the economy is to increase public debt. But I think that Fidesz-KDNP, the civil government's economic policy, is a good example of how to do both at the same time. He said, Mr Vice-President, that the rise in standards will not be a clear result of this change of model. I can even agree with that, but what I think we need to look at is what better serves the potential for a rise in standards: to keep everything in place or to give more responsibility to the maintainers, to encourage them to compete? In this, I say that the possibility of a rise in standards is more inherent in this new model than in the previous one. We can base this on practical experience, because we could see that the previous one had the opposite effect, encouraged universities to operate in a way, but did not encourage them to increase standards in any way. It has also been said that the change in the curatoriums is not autonomy, it is feudalism. I think that the curatorium can change its own composition, it is an established company practice, it is a business practice, it is the management board that determines who should be the director, and it may be a board member, or it is a member of the board of directors, for example, in the case of OTP, as well as a president and CEO. So I think we're talking about putting in a business practice, which is not without precedent, and I think there's nothing wrong with it. There has been a lot of talk about funding. Here, too, the argument was that the government actually threatened to create a model change. Vice-President Hiller has just given his best rebuttal, who said that ELTE, which does not choose to change models, will also receive development resources. So the left-wing claim that it only achieved the change of model with such threats, that you would receive a development resource if you switched to foundational operation, this would not stand the test of reality. I think it is very important that, if we look at the example of other successful universities, whether they are state-owned, private universities or foundational reservations, one thing can surely come up against anyone; and whether they are the largest private universities or the universities mentioned by Vice-President Hiller, let us say, German state-owned universities. They all have their own assets. It's his own property, it's huge! I therefore think that, together with the change of model, the fact that universities are also going to become property owners is a very good step, and I think that autonomy will be broadened, as it also gives responsibility to the maintainers. Therefore, KDNP will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-09-35	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. The next speaker was Mr Sándor Szabó, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2021-04-09-36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, It is not my place to defend or speak for István Hiller, but he said it, Mr President, and perhaps at the very end they should have paid attention to his firm rejection of this bill and the change of maintenance; even before trying to prove that Mr. President's opinion was different. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, is occupied by the Vice-President of the Parliament. Móring József Attila Attila Móring and Dr. Csaba Gyüre takes over.) As a representative of Szeged, let me talk primarily about the transformation of Szeged and the University of Szeged, but obviously before that, a few words about knowledge and the functioning of the foundation and the change of maintenance should be allowed. Knowledge is the key to reducing social differences, detecting and eliminating injustices, and the justice of diligence and ability. Knowledge is our common treasure, the creation, possession, sharing of knowledge in the interests of everyone and with the help of all of us. Therefore, all political manifestations limiting knowledge to the financial and power interests of the few who are excluded from the public interest destroy the fate of the nation, the functioning of the present and future generations. That's what we're seeing now. We see that the institutions of knowledge, autonomy, real professional science, public life, students, teachers, employees' forums are at risk and only few can become service providers of the interests of power. That is rightly the case, my fellow Members, because they have been in government for 11 years, and when they started to transform institutions of this size during their 11-year government, it has always been the result of slutty. You keep saying that we're attacking your policy, and we're saying that we're worried. We were worried when it came to transforming public education institutions and creating a huge centre, KLIK, which will fail after a year, explaining how effective the system will be. But that's not what happened. [[14.00]] We were also concerned when the pension conversion started and, in fact, nothing happened during the improvement of the pension system, the 3000 billion private pension assets disappeared, and we are concerned when we talk about the restructuring of the municipalities, because since 2012, since the law on the conversion of the large municipal system was passed, we have been constantly seeing local governments' provisions decline, the local government's assets are constantly falling, and we see that the local governments are in a difficult situation. Allow me to say a few words about the operation of the foundation. It has already been said here that even the competent wallet at Christmas said that there will be no more transformation of universities, once there was a dog sale in Buda, and the change of model is actually not on the agenda. Then, in January, the government suddenly became important for a comprehensive reform of higher education in Hungary, especially with regard to large rural universities. It has already been said that this actually means that a foundation of five or seven members of the board will run the foundations, including state wealth. It's a huge law. And yet it can be said in this Parliament that there is nothing to see here, that it is possible to go on; there was a Member who said that. We are talking about the Hungarian nation's wealth, the state's wealth, which goes into private hands. So allow me, on behalf of opposition representatives and the Hungarian people, to reject and ask for this comment. It is also more than suspicious, of course, that the government really wants to force this change of model on higher education institutions when we know that exactly 1500, according to the Prime Minister, HUF 2000 billion arrives in Hungarian higher education. But István Stumpf, who, by the way, is responsible as government commissioner for the transformation of higher education, also said and not on our television, but on your television that universities actually receive this money even if there is no change of model. In Hungarian, if the maintenance change does not take place, the state, state universities will still have access to this source. We can therefore say with great certainty that the Fidesz government has not been able to give any serious reasons for the maintenance change, which would have actually justified this. Of course, this is what Congressman Hiller talked about, and some of the opposition representatives here have said that we all know that the seven thousand citizens working at the University of Szeged are either the twenty thousand students or the fact that they are not all right with higher education in Hungary. The institutional network has been fragmented, the bureaucracy is large, the system is underfunded, the infrastructure is scarce, there is little room in the dormitory, and it is clear that what could be improved on the higher education institution system, but if they have been able to amend the granite-solid Fundamental Law nine times now, then don't tell me that this would have been such an insurmountable professional challenge for you that, during your 11-year governance, you could really find a solution to the current anomalies in the management of universities and in the operation of universities. Their only real innovative idea, their solution, what they had done, was to put chancellors above the university rectors, saying that otherwise they would supervise the system, and they knew very well that much had not actually happened. Turning to the transformation of the University of Szeged, allow us to say that the university is an internationally listed institution of our city, the South Lowland region, which defines the present and future of the nation. Why are we saying this? Because knowledge is the key to the rise of both the city, the region and our country. The University of Szeged is the main depositary of the creation, acquisition and transfer of knowledge, science. What we see now is that in the bill before us, 38 properties are transferred to the property of the foundation. We are shocked to see that any decision determining the operation, including the fate of the current state-owned property with a hundred billion-dollar value in the management of universities, could, let us say, fall into the hands of life-long appointed curators. However, these buildings, facilities, research and healing tools all came to the university with public money. For example, a hundred years ago in Szeged, the citizens of the city made a very serious financial offer to put part of the University of Cluj into our city. The most important urban development and investments in recent years have also helped directly and indirectly the university training in Szeged, the efficient functioning of the university. Nevertheless, we have found and seen that the government has not sought the opportunity to provide meaningful information and dialogue with the city and its citizens connected to the University of Szeged with a thousand threads. He did not have any kind of dialogue not only with the public, but also with the circle concerned. As regards the decision of the ominous Senate in Szeged, it has been said several times that the Senates of universities themselves have asked for this change of model to take place. At least in this Parliament, we honor each other enough not to think of each other as idiots. You know perfectly well that I don't think that any rector, waking up after New Year's Eve, looking out the window, suddenly figured out that he was going to call the Senate in a rapid manner, and that in those months, January, they're going to ask the maintainer to change the model. You know perfectly well that, in fact, they were given, as a matter of fact, a mandate by the rectors to do so. Let's just be honest, and let's not treat each other like idiots, like I said. How did this Senate meeting happen? Before that, faculty councils met, the faculty councils expressed their views on the need for a change of model, and many faculties rejected this change of model. However, when the Senate meeting was held, several executive faculty leaders voted in favour of a change of model against the decision of the arms. They did this, Congressman Hollik, and I am telling you, because there is footage of this, and I am not saying that you should look at the Senate meeting in Szeged for the effective blackmail of the Rector, who, by the way, said that the arms would not receive money if they did not decide to change maintenance and unfortunately changed their opinion. In their defense, several of these faculty leaders have resigned from their post after the Senate meeting. You can see it, it's found. And there were still a lot of anomalies in that Senate meeting about college sms, violations, and it wasn't really possible to know what the decision-makers were voting on. Unfortunately, this decision has been made under intense pressure. Overall, it can therefore be said with great certainty that the change of maintenance is in fact a hasty, uncertain decision, which does not really provide guarantees for the preservation of university autonomy, and in any case does not benefit the public. And what's the future? The development of Hungarian higher education institutions, increasing their competitiveness, restoring the status of knowledge, the financial appreciation of academics, researchers and workers, and the creation of freedom of education and research should be the most important national objective of a new coalition government. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-09-37	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I welcome you all with love. We're back in session. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr János Lázár, who is speaking from here on the platform. I'll wait for him to take off his mask. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-38	Mr President, Dear House of Representatives, I'm not talking about my place because I want to abuse their patience or strengthen my voice, but I'm behind the column under the influence of the pandemic, and I might be more difficult to see and hear in politics. That's why I thought that if I rarely spoke, I would take this opportunity to speak to you from here. Of course, I take the liberty of recommending some points to my fellow Members for consideration in connection with two proposals. [[14.10]] One is T/15710, and the second is T/15725. The two legislative proposals deal with public-service trust foundations, and the second one deals with the Land of Future Generation Foundation. I do this in two qualities, on the one hand, as curator of the Hungarian Agricultural and Life Sciences University, founded by the state, and, on the other hand, in the second bill, in the Land of the Future Generation Foundation, responsible for the fields in Mezőhegyes, by you and by the government commissioner entrusted by the executive authority. Obviously, this debate has two sections. In the last six hours, it has been mainly about public tasks, public interests, public goals and the fate of higher education. I am not an expert at this, compared with Professor Hiller, teacher Pósán and other my fellow members of the university, and I would not take the liberty of speaking about the omniscient stone of wisdom in the reform of higher education. But I think it is important to stress that István Hiller is right in that there is a complete national consensus in Hungary, that Hungary is strong, national sovereignty, self-determination without unimaginable knowledge, without competitive knowledge that gives the possibility of catching up, integration for both the individual and the country. So that, for the sake of knowledge, in order to increase knowledge and the number of educated people, the debate is taking place on both sides, I am quite sure of that. But the question is whether, if everyone in Hungary is dissatisfied with higher education, the results and performance of higher education, then the content or form will change the upper education; there was a reform of content without formal reform, and the change of the formal system alone could mean a change in content. I think that sticking to the old form, taking a conservative status position, is not worth it because the old form has not fulfilled its expectations. If the current university maintenance structure worked well, these would not be the results. And indeed, István Hiller is also right in saying that we should not measure ourselves to international benchmarking or numbers, but that we should look at what employers say or see what students themselves say about university performance. The transformation of the University of Agricultural and Life Sciences was preceded by a year-and-a-half preparatory work, where it was clear that everyone wanted a change: students, the Senate, the faculty and, of course, economic interest representatives, because there is no Hungarian employer in Hungary who would generally be satisfied with the education and preparation of the workforce. There are industries where things are going well, but the Hungarian employers whom, after all, the aim is to ensure that public education and higher education ultimately serve, so that all people can cope with the overall performance with the help of work. To consider this, I am sure that I would urge and encourage my fellow Members to make sure that the time has not come, perhaps too late, that Hungarian higher education should undergo a serious change of form, especially in view of the Overseer's side. I do not see in this proposal that the functioning of the university, its autonomy, the independence of higher education guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, and scientific freedom are being violated; this can obviously be made a constitutional debate, but this is not what this proposal is about. This proposal is about how the maintainer could be more productive, how to be more effective, and how to be a better owner of the higher education and the university world he has entrusted. I do not agree with those who think that we are organizing the possibility of influencing the future of higher education, changing the line of upper education based on the mandate of the electorate. That's because two tools will definitely stay here. One is the regulation of Parliament; the regulation remains with Parliament, the regulator remains with the legislator, so the rules of the upper education are made by the legislation. The second is the budget, which is also adopted by a simple majority by Parliament, and it is indeed the attribute of all government, as it is the most important point of what we think about this country, the present and the future of this community. The number of state-supported courses and the number of students recruited are determined by the current Minister and Ministry on the basis of the budget. This does not change with this proposal. So the two most important points are who can learn with state aid, what the budget will be for this, and what frameworks, rules of the game apply to the upper education, it does not change. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that I find that the University of Agricultural Sciences may be a narrow section, 14 thousand students and a small community, a professional university, as István Hiller said, but the conditions we experienced there were the last minute of 24 hours, the university itself is in such a bad condition, the whole training itself, which, of course, highlights the contradictions and difficulties of the agricultural world. In other words, you are trying to idealise the current state of Hungarian higher education as the fruit of the past 30 years, and you are presenting everything that exists, but anyone who goes into today's building at the University of Veterinary Medicine, who goes into the campuses of the University of Agricultural Sciences, does not see that everything is fine there. It sees that all problems there are more and require change. If I'm looking at the board from here, I think it's important that the Audi don't get angry, and especially the posterity doesn't mind the record that I'm using this word, it goes under the university of Győr or the secondary education of Győr. I think it is right that the OTP group and the Bonafarm reach below the ground, rather plowing Hungarian agricultural higher education. I don't see any political, social policy risks in this. There are those who are attacking these economic players, but overall, my sober-thinking fellow Members of Parliament cannot dispute the fact that there are Hungarian business successes, and the forgings of these business successes are good if they sit in the college superintendent bodies. So I think that there is no strong Hungary without a change in the system of higher education. You can criticize the government that it was slow, you can criticize the government for being late for this recognition. But the need to change, I'm pretty sure. However, my speech was not about that; it was just a number of my fellow Members from Fidesz, KDNP and István Hiller from the MSZP said such an excellent speech that I had to respond to what was said. My speech was about the asset, about the state's wealth. Because in a special section, there have been a few sentences about the role and importance of state wealth, but here I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, indeed, this proposal also means rethinking the management of some of the state's wealth. In 2008, there was a conference in the Baross Gábor Society where Árpád Kovács told us that during the change of regime they did not even know how much money the Hungarian state had. There were 300,000 geographic numbers in the land records, and 150,000 in the ADA. The State Audit Office says from 2003 that the Hungarian State lost 4000 billion between 1990 and 2002, the privatisation took place without a neck, for example in Mezőhegyes between 2002 and 2010; a thousand billion privatization revenues held the then government of SZDSZ and MSZP on a ventilator. In 2010, the Hungarian state's assets were estimated at 10 thousand billion, and in 2019-20 this estimate was approximately 17-18 thousand forints. So it increased by 70 percent, the government that you generally accused of corruption, lack of transparency and lack of sound management increased the wealth of this tax-paying community by 70 percent. I believe that in the legislative process, where not only pro-government representatives and ministers should be present, but also opposition representatives, who otherwise have a previous function, who are also represented in a modest number, obviously because of the lack of interest in the subject, the intellectual debate in the legislation should be held in addition to the debate on higher education, as to what the state has to do with the acquired, repurchased or built-up assets. Only our company's assets are HUF 5000 billion. Does the executive power have the right to constantly, in line with the changes of the age, to seek new and new means for the benefit of the public, but also for the care of the good farmer? I am not satisfied with the way the Hungarian state is managing public wealth at the moment. I'm not talking about stealing or stealing, I'm thinking it's not effective enough. No government could expect a bureaucrat, a secretary of state or an assistant secretary of state to be effective in managing the state's assets. I will be able to vote with a good conscience on a bill that leaves state assets with a legal and personal responsibility, not a political one like you or members of the government, but with personal legal responsibility, but not an unlimited public task and public purpose. [[14.20]] This wealth, although the preamble to the bill says that it is a private-law actor, but somewhere, as a lawyer, I allow myself to do this science between the common good and the private wealth. I mean, it's a property that has a public mission and a public purpose. So public money does not lose its public money character, as many people throw it at us, but the wealth that is managed by foundations and curators invested in legal responsibility for the common good, accountable for the fulfilment of public tasks and public goals. Moreover, the income of this property must be financed by the public mission and the public goal. In Mezőhegyes, I suggested to the government that there should be a construction that precludes the possibility of what happened under the socialist government, that the stud property had already been privatised once, and that some of the Fideszes wanted to sell the state land in 2016. State property remains state property. The Foundation receives a right to manage assets, but the trust is subject to a disposal and debit ban, which is registered in the Land Office. In the interest of asset management, it leases this land to a company owned by itself at 100%, the shares of which are also subject to a disposal and debit ban, only the State can buy it. And from the dividends received, as well as the rent, you will finance the public mission and public purpose that my fellow Member Gurmai pointed out well, despite the fact that it was not fair and correct, Békés County, the catching up of South Peace, the provision of the opportunity for students in agricultural vocational training there, the financing of public education, public education, the financing of vocational training, and the support of the city. So the curatorium has no choice but to use the money for this public purpose and is responsible for the operation and use of this property. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, in the short time remaining, to the fact that in France, where the power of the state is determined by the size of the state's assets and by the economic influence of the state, there are trust funds, state wealth is organised into investment funds, just as in Portugal. So the fact that the state is managing its wealth and looking for new forms instead of old forms is not, in itself, from the devil. The question is that there are guarantee rules, and that can be debated. In the case of Mezőhegyes, there must be guarantee rules. I've brought a land registry from the Forge House land office to find out what's on file. Today, agricultural land can be sold and sold without restriction. If the proposal is adopted, it will have a windmark, a trust right, which is subject to a disposal and debit ban. The Mezőhegyi Ménes estate shows that with a public land sold and then bought back by the state, partly thanks to Viktor Szigetvári, Zoltán Gőgös and my fellow Members from Fidesz, the government was able to save it, but there it is true that private interest has been set aside by the public goal, so we are trying to create this construction, so that the opportunity never to revisit this property is not intended for public purpose, public service, but for private property or private purpose. We want to exclude all forms and possibilities of privatisation, and, of course, as this will be an important debate in the detailed debate on what public land in Mezőhegyes should serve as a public education, model economy, and the rest, to which the legislation will authorise the government and the government will establish this foundation. I therefore think, fellow Members, that the debate is a little heated, that there is little talk about the point, that there are too many political aspects of the party one year before the elections, but I also think that my personal conscience is clear. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I am particularly looking forward to Mrs Zita Gurmai, Member of the State, in particular, to Mrs Mezőhegyes, to show how the state's wealth, the land of the state, can be well run for the benefit of the public, and how it will continue to be so. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-09-39	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Zoltán Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Government, pro-government representatives! I've been listening to you for the fifth hour of Istova, and you could say you're hungry and hungry, and I have to tell you that you're smart people. Now put your hands on your hearts, because you have absolutely no interest in education, no interest in higher education. [[Mr. Moraj, there's a leak in the pro-government benches.]] Because you're afraid of learned people. You're friends with the Rippers who don't think, but you've already learned to sign. And let me have a parentheses idea here, because you are not only interested in education, but also not interested in health care. How did your boss put it? You think it could be hottente, for example, the vaccine, and you're absolutely right, you're irrelevant. The point is to put in their dirty little business raiders and scouts who can break billions of them down. But you have seen and seen that this is not going to work in Europe, which is why it is important for you to be friends with your Chinese comrades. Yes, that's what's important to you: the greasy cubes and the constitutional cost from the billions of public money. In fact, this is your god. Something like this is going on right now, because it is practically the biggest business possible that you are doing, and we, the Hungarian people, are suffering. That's what's going on in Debrecen. Masses of health institutions, clinics, medical clinics, 323 residential properties in Debrecen, resorts in Balaton, Budapest, scientific research buildings, Mád Castle, apartments, resorts, schools in many parts of the country, including Szarvas, Zamárdi, Szolnok. But there are a lot of companies. Debrecen Stadion reconstruction Ltd. To say someone I know, dorms, kindergartens, crèches, practically a city full of real estate and the same number of people. Tens of thousands of workers will be summarily unavailable to the state and huge wealth; they will be well-defined in private pockets, and an annual budget of HUF 185 billion. This is 20 billion forints more than the budget of Debrecen, the second largest city in the country. This, of course, does not allow the university community to know in advance either the institutional development plan for 2021-24 or the model change strategy. Because taking over the university as a foundation would, in my view, be acceptable to the majority of university citizenship, but they also say that if this happens almost secretly, without discourse, with the exclusion of the general public and in a few days, there is a strong suspicion that the primary aim of the transformation will not be or may not be to raise education and scientific standards. As is the fact that the arguments in favour of conversion, which mention various advantages, and you said so yourself, are not real. Most of the changes promised as an advantage, self-management, wage increases, strengthening competitiveness and facilitating or abolishing public procurement procedures, we know that very well, and you know that, because smart people, within the current operating framework, could also do so with minimal amendments to the legislation. Overall, my opposition colleagues have already said this, and I can only repeat you in practice, what you are doing, is the complete abolition of university autonomy, the creation of a parallel state. You're about to fail. They outsource billions, hundreds of billions, thousands of billions, prepared for the period of need. Needless to say, I have to add. But how did it happen, and how did it lead to the outsourcing of university wealth, the taking of education, and what does it have to do with politics? You say nothing. I'm saying it's a lot. Let's take a look at Debrecen. It is Lajos Kósa who, without any degree, can at times lecture and ankle the Senate of the University of Debrecen, and if he is in a gentleman's mood to give them a lecture. Can he do that? You can do that. You can do that, because in the leadership of the university, Lajos Kósa's confidants and friends can say that they are indebted to him, and they have avoided him. [[14.30]] Mostly the city holding company created during his mayorship, Debrecen Vagyonkezelő Zrt. Leaders, former CEO of the holding, created a new position for him at the university, became the Chief of Staff. In 2014, the chancellor became the former economic director of the university, who was also a member of Debrecen Vagyonkezelő Zrt., and that he was not, the former news director of the Debrecen Television, which the Debrecens only called royal television, was the head of communication at the University. Let's just say the university, especially the University of Debrecen, is the new sandbox of Fidesz. A university with a budget of 20 billion more than Debrecen's budget has the advantage of having no opposition to look at their nails and ask them what hundreds of billions of dollars are spent on. You said the Senate, what we're talking about, these Senates practically begged for this new form of foundation. But what is true about Debrecen, for example? The example of the Rector of the University of Debrecen, who inaugurated Putin as a university citizen, shows what it is like to put a regime on the head of a university. What's it like when this man keeps trying to repay me, or else this baksis? In 2013 the Senate did not support the Debrecen Rector, but Minister Zoltán Balog proposed and appointed him as rector. Then, of course, the Rector helped bring the government's savior, head of the University of Physical Education to a professor's title. Then we remembered that the leadership of the University of Debrecen was almost the only university that stood up for the government in the CEU case. And let's stay with Professor Moscow for a while. In 2014, the Higher Education Act was amended because of it. With the adoption of lex Mocsai, on the one hand, it was stated that the Olympic medal in sports science higher education is equivalent to the doctoral degree, and the Rector of the University of Physical Education does not need to be a university teacher. Lajos Mocsai was appointed as a rector on this basis, but how much better it would have been if he had been a professor, so there was nothing to do, they tried to fool him over the university community. They may have found the University of Debrecen alone, because the Rector was indebted to your system. However, the university's doctoral and habilitation council rejected this initiative, and then the title of Moscow's honorary doctorate in the form of an individual presentation is interesting! It was returned to the Senate once again, where they simply did not dare to vote for it. The absurdity of the case is shown by the fact that Lajos Mocsai was awarded the PhD in the field of education, because the University of Debrecen could not have given such a medal in the field of sports science. And, as I said earlier, in March 2017, the University of Debrecen came to the government's aid in a shameful way during the communication war around the CEU. Today, at the University of Debrecen, please, there is an atmosphere in which people who work there are afraid of the consequences, or are already viewing normal relations as hopeless, even questioning the decisions of the rector, not replacing it. This spread not only in Debrecen but also in the university, everyone knows that the Rector is the government's hand-fed man. I started with this, and I will conclude with this: put your hands on your hearts, you are not interested in education. You are interested in the HUF 185 billion budget of the University of Debrecen, the possibility of acquiring 332 properties in Debrecen and countless other properties. He is interested in this sentence, which goes back to several points of the law, and is recorded in it just in case:. The foundation will be entitled to the sale of the real estate transferred to him. This is the most important, the fattest cubes you've had in your eyes for years. This is your chance to get this during the terrible plague. Otherwise, you are right, it has been said several times that the form of foundation is good and modern. True, the foundation form can be a good and modern thing. We might even believe you if you didn't have a past, if it weren't for the 11 years that you've become a billionaire, and the country has become a land-runner. You know, this foundation you're talking about and talking about... [[Dr. Peter Hoppál:]] Congressman, even though you are shaking your head, it is true, the worst thing is that when you look in the mirror, you are fully aware of it. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Is there still a free expression? The president's ringing the bell.]] The form of foundation, you know, a lot of examples and metaphors, a little bit like matches. In itself, in a normal position, in normal hands, matches are a great tool, but in the hands of piroman villains, matches can become a murder weapon, and you can set fire to anything, a country. You can ruin the future, and that's what you're doing here. And you can say here, of course, that this was not a professional but a political comment, there is only one problem, that for a very long time you have not chosen anything for a profession, not even a political one, it is simply a criminal issue that we are talking about, and sooner or later you will pay the price. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-09-41	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Peter Hoppál. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-42	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Let us go back to the agenda a little after all the nonsense and controlled depravity that has been said. It seems to me that in this four-year term, this is an outstanding package of laws on the agendas discussed by Parliament. After all, the 17 laws tabled that Parliament has been negotiating today without a time frame in a single package, and we have indeed been here since 9 a.m., and I see from the ranks of the honourable opposition that only two have been sitting here since 9 a.m., but we are still taking time to draw up arguments against the 17 laws tabled and the single package, or even in favour of it. This is a particularly important package of laws. We are all working in the interests of the country, said one of the key speakers of the opposition. Indeed, we can relate to this package of laws depending on temperament, but I do not think that if the representatives of the honourable opposition had considered and actually read the presentation of many of the speakers, they would not be able to identify themselves with the government intentions presented. For who would not support the spiritual heritage of Alajos Hausmann, the intention and the system of purpose that the Hausmann Foundation has formulated, to be supported unitedly and jointly? Who among us would disagree that we are trying to better position the worldwide intellectual heritage of Imre Makovecz, and besides the foundation established after his death, the Makovecz Campus Foundation in the centre of Piliscsaba, as a new training center, will further strengthen this spirit for the benefit of the Hungarian nation? Is there anyone among us who does not agree with the long-term goal system of the Future Generation Land Foundation, which is already articulated here by our fellow Member János Lázár? And to bring a little bit of the topic that is so kind to me here, is there anyone who believes that the objectives of the Hungarian Culture Foundation set out here cannot be accepted sitting on opposition or pro-government sides? [[14.40]] I think that if we put our hands on our hearts, we can reach consensus on a number of issues in the package of laws tabled. And I can see that these issues have been less overstepping the opposition's stimuli, but perhaps they are criticising the new, big step in the transition and shift of higher education, because in addition to the 10 already modeled Hungarian higher education institutions, we now have 11 new universities in the legislative package that want to take this path. I do not categorize speeches in which all kinds of crazy visions have been formulated to extortion and so on; allow me to tell you a little bit more from my own perspective how the University of Pécs, one of the largest universities in the region, has discussed this issue. As an instructor at the University of Pécs, I attended the teaching conference at the beginning of January, where our dean informed us what the alternatives were, what the options were, and on this point, all opinions could be drawn up completely democratically, and an open-ended hearing for many hours ended with a vote. The Master's Conference in our arms gave our dean the mandate to support the change of model, with an overwhelming majority. For the record, as a politician, I did not speak at the meeting, nor did I wish to exert influence on the decision-making of the university, even in so small a way. After that, the other faculty held their own teaching meetings, and then a Senate meeting took place. The University of Pécs convened its Senate, and, with the president of the Rector, it was perceived that they did not yet have all the information in their possession to make a decision on that day, so, to everyone's surprise, the Rector adjourned the decision, and on 29 January a new meeting was convened, and on 29 January they had gathered information from the Ministry that had been made public. There was a gesture that one of the members of the Senate, one of the deans who was opposed to the change of model, asked the Senate to vote for a self-limiting gesture, to include a two-thirds clause in the acceptance of the vote, in Hungarian, if there were no two-thirds majority of the change of model, then the Senate would not accept this. This was therefore voted by the Senate and elected representatives of the University of Pécs, so they continued the debate in two-thirds self-limiting. Then, in the final vote, when all the arguments could be made through elected representatives in the Senate, the University of Pécs, with a 73-percent decision, lived with the motion for a change of model and asked the government to sit in the list of model-shifting universities. I had to tell you a little bit more about this process from the inside because it neutralizes, neutralizes, and how should I put it? It makes the opposition speeches that we have just heard here in the last five and a half hours, that there was blackmail, that there is a one-way show, that there is nothing to do here, because the violence of the government prevails, and here, indeed, who is not doing as Viktor Orbán whistles, well, you can see yourself. These have become cartoons, and during the preparation of the entire bill and the decision-making of universities, these oppositional and extreme manifestations have become caricatures of themselves. At the same time, let us take a little closer look at what the transformation of universities and the renewal of the entire spectrum of higher education has brought to the kitchen in the last ten years during right-wing civil governance. We also vividly remember who doesn't remember, I ask you to look up the relevant data and information, press reports about the neighbourhood of 2010, what we looked like at the time, here, especially important rural universities among the exhibitors. The University of Pécs was one of the record players in its credit portfolio. In addition, just then, returning to the University of Pécs, unfortunately, it was an infrastructure that was dying at the time, unfortunately, the University of Pécs was taken away in handcuffs in 2015. Because if you say now that it's theft, Panama, corruption, trouble, well, if you pull out the newspapers at that time, you'll see what that meant in your time, honourable opposition fellow Members. So what you are now visualizing has already happened once, before 2010, Hungarian higher education was in this state, and rural universities, unfortunately. He had to get up from under the floor. In 2011, you did not vote in favour of the National Higher Education Act, which set new foundations for the regulation of higher education, but a new path was launched. A new path has been launched, in which a strategy-making process, an expert strategy based on a wide range of expert bases, was launched, and this strategy was adopted in the form of a government decision in 2016. A respected speaker of the opposition has just expressed his appreciation for this. I think that the government does not deviate from the material considered by the opposition to be a good discussion material and acceptable document in 2016, with the present proposal, since the objectives remain primarily competitiveness and quality. We could hear a historical overview of what the universities were and what the goal was at the time of the change of regime was. In 1990, the aim was to strengthen the European map from the terrible position of the second lowest country of higher education diploma issuance after Albania, so a quantitative expansion followed and it had to be converted into a quality expansion between 2002-10. We obtained these expressions from a lot of Latvian university students, and there were many forms of training with which we produced the unemployed, let us admit. Higher education had to be tuned to quality, but infrastructure and efficiency and international standards and competitiveness have not yet been included in this repository and in this target system. We have just historically come to the conclusion that the 2016 target system can prevail in this strategy, a milestone of which today's proposal is a milestone. That is why I started by saying that I think this is one of the most important proposals of our four-year parliamentary term in terms of national strategy, what will happen to Hungarian higher education in the ten to twenty or thirty years after the change of regime. With such glasses, if we look at the results: the process of changing models, here the progress of campus development of unprecedented quality, the PPP replacement has been achieved in a large part among higher education institutions, there is a college infrastructure development, the integration of the research-financing system has been achieved, the strengthening of the dual higher education system is ongoing, the development of the education structure in the Carpathian Basin is on the agenda in terms of domestic and cross-border training, and the system of doctoral training has been renewed on the basis of international standards. In addition, the desired increase in the number of foreign students will increase with an appropriate trend after 2013, leading to the internationalisation of universities in the right direction. Furthermore, with regard to development policy concentration, this approach has already been introduced into universities by the chancellors, but now, with model changes, this kind of thinking is more at the heart of universities. Indeed, it is not the role of the Ministry apparatus to be economically, economically, in terms of management, and in terms of development ideas in the future, but it will be the responsibility of the Foundation and its trustees responsible for the change of model system. [[14.50]] So I think that if we project the results so far by 2030 and look at the key role of universities in Hungary's development strategy and dare to harvest the fruits of the work done, then it is an important milestone in this, but it is not Armageddon that this proposal brings, it is certainly not Armageddon. The manifestations that are expressed in an emotional, political, and incriminating tone and style rather than professional, will be handled by political historians in place. I ask you not to deceive your own voters, honourable opposition representatives. Let's say that we can agree with the target system, we welcome the results, because none of us can serve a Hungary in which, for example, waterheads develop and only Budapest is strengthened. It is also necessary to strengthen the countryside, as this was also the objective of Kuno Klebelsberg after Trianon, and this was the beginning of today's trial, as he referred to him in Mr. State Secretary's exposé. This is what he said in his important speech in 1928, which I would like to quote here as a closing point:. If Budapest was developed unilaterally and the rural towns were to continue to be platooned, then Hungary would also be a single area of gross neglect, headed by one city, Budapest. The sick situation would be that the whole country would be a county, and it would be a city. This would lead to the disfigurement of the entire social structure and social structure of the Hungarian nation and the demise of the Hungarian spirit. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think we can identify with this, and the objectives of strengthening rural universities and changing models, scale and the 2030 national strategy are hidden between the objectives. I'm glad you're in favour of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-09-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-09-44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that the ministers of the Orbán government have now outsourced themselves, from here to Parliament, for sure, to the Board of Trustees and Board of Governors of the Foundations, because there is no one here. It's pretty amazing, by the way, they don't give a shit about that. So, in order for the foundations to accept the amazing, 100 billion-dollar total, the real estate, everything, more than a thousand-billion-dollar fortunes, yes, they give their faces to it, but not to the parliamentary trial of this proposal. It's definitely stealing what we see. I do not want to talk about academic aspects, because I think it is quite clear that this is all about the business, a business that belongs to a narrow circle of governments, nothing else, and you are doing nothing else, which enhances even the basic sin more than turning the Hungarian people's pockets out in a crisis. As you said, my fellow Member, 17 legislative proposals have now been tabled, but it is all about how to outsource these public funds and real estate to fidesz private foundations, so it is nothing else. This time spent preparing these 17 proposals and adding the time that they have spent speaking here in Parliament, it is precisely that they should be spending crisis management. Fellow Members! In the last 24 hours, more than 280 Hungarian people have died in the virus situation, all family fathers, family mothers, children, grandparents. This is what you should be dealing with, how to protect as many people as possible; how to provide as much resources effectively as possible in health care, so that people can operate more effectively, so that they can receive adequate care; how to help small and medium-sized enterprises, which are now on the brink of bankruptcy, by the way, they have employed two thirds of the Hungarian people, and now I have to say in the past time, because between February and February last year, 104,000 people have become unemployed. That is what should be addressed, not how money can be outsourced. What I mean is that they're in complete panic, that they're losing the 2022 elections, and it's clear that Fidesz and the Fidesz leaders were very badly burned in 2002. Well, that's what happens. You can tell they're panicking. Understandable, because all the figures show that people are dissatisfied with your performance, and that will have very serious consequences next year in terms of your exercise of power: yes, they will very much lose the 2022 elections. So it looks like public money is being outsourced, public money is being privatized, and in a very brazen way, really turning people's pockets. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál, presenting a document: Have you read it?]] I must say, on what my fellow Member has said, that he will be here at Armageddon or not, that he will not be, and do you know why, my fellow Member? Because after the change of government in 2022, every person involved in the outsourcing of public money and at any other level in the privatisation of public money will be held accountable, and most importantly, we will get the Hungarian people's money back for the Hungarian people. So don't get too involved in this construction. I'm saying that they shouldn't have spent too much time doing this anyway, because it won't be effective, they won't be able to build a parallel state with it, and we certainly won't let them outsource people's money and try to survive, maintain their party and maintain their systems in 2022, after your fall. We will not allow this to happen, we will end this with a stroke of a pen, and I am going to tell you this now, and once again: this responsibility will be legal and in every other way, morally. I'll give you some numbers to detect the extent of this outsourcing, by the way. Only with the 17 legislative proposals just submitted, 1750 public properties, currently owned by Hungarian people, are given free of charge to these Fidesz private foundations. For example, in total 467 real estates will be awarded to the Debrecen University, not only in connection with Debrecen, while 136 buildings will be awarded to the Foundation that maintains the University of Szeged, and 111 real estates will be awarded to Pécsi. So we are talking about quite amazing amounts, and there are among these real estates an extremely patinous villa, an amazing view of Budapest real estate, huge estates, ploughers, forests, and more. I really need someone to explain to me why these properties are necessary to increase the level of education. Can you tell us why these hundreds of billions, for example, only Mathias Corvinus Collegium receives HUF 500 billion, which is one and a half times more than what they spend on full Hungarian higher education in a year, couldn't have been spent on higher education in recent years? Because they didn't. So you can see from this that it's not just the horse's foot hanging out here, it's the whole herd, and the whole thing you're saying about higher education is just an excuse, and it's all bullshit, it's very clear. It is also apparent that universities will continue to be maintained by Hungarian taxpayers from the state normative. So what are these foundations doing? Yeah, to get the most valuable real estate, a lot of foundations get, for example, extra state money, liquid money, and, if any, MOL and Richter shares. I don't know what the oil business has to do with talent management, but that's what they're telling me, and to increase the level of education. [[Tamás János Schanda: You can pay for it!]] All of this is done by addressing the health and safety of Hungarian people in the middle of the virus situation, and the most important thing for you is to fill your pockets, the most important thing is that you are clinging to power in a cramped manner, and insisting on maintaining your current systems at a later stage. It is also clear that conflict of interest rules are being eased even more, so I would like to place even more of your people in these foundations, the curatoriums, it is not enough that half the government is actually already sitting there. We can list the names: Balázs Orbán Deputy Minister, for example, President of the Board of Trustees of one of the Foundations, such as Judit Varga and Mihály Varga, and Tibor Navracsics will also be part of one of the foundations, as will János Lázár, Péter Szijjártó, István Bajkai, Sándor Lezsák, and we can list them. [[15.00]] So they are also organizing themselves into these foundations, and, although not all of them, most of the board members are able to take a monthly allowance of between HUF 1 and 1.5 million from taxpayers' money, by the way. So it's clear that what you're doing has nothing to do with the rule of law. It has nothing to do with improving the quality of higher education as what you are doing, because free-owned sailing ports and ex-work guard bases do not ensure that the quality of higher education is increased. I would also like to explain why this is happening right now. It is clear that you have now appointed education as new tourism. So far, it has been tourism that has been amazing for both state and European Union money to be taken in, used and stuffed in the pockets of buddies, so they have taken over this sector before. Now they're doing the same with education. How interesting, we remember the EU debate of the Restoration Fund, where the Hungarian government, by the way, protested hand and foot, threatened with veto, and finally accepted this. In addition to Hungary receiving nearly HUF 5700 billion of this, Interestingly, for the recapitalisation of higher education, HUF 1500 billion. Now, by transforming this sector, this HUF 1500 billion EU resource will essentially flow to the private fidesz foundations. So at this level, we're talking about a money sink, we can say that, in essence, universities are now going to be the Fidesz ATMs. I don't think you should be proud of any of this construction. You decide whether or not you actually have the stomach to do this, or whether you think you can get away with it, or even what future you think this whole thing is. What I can tell you is that we can guarantee that, after the change of government in 2022, we will take a very hard look at the whole construction. I think there will be a lot more to find out about this, because you are extremely secretive, like on every other subject, trying to hide public information from people. But we guarantee that accountability will happen in this area, and that there will be no consequences for what they do. The consequence is not only criminal, legal, moral, but also one of the most important things, that Hungarian people do not have to say goodbye to this public money, because we will get this money back from you for the Hungarian people. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-09-45	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mrs Bernadett Szél. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-09-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think I will start with a point that cannot be emphasised enough. 'Cause it looks to me like you guys have the wrong house. Thus, university training, the organisation of higher education itself, is a public service, a public task, which must not and cannot be marketed. Where appropriate, it should be prepared to apply economic interests in these institutions, precisely because it serves the interests of the country, the nation, often in the short term, but sometimes in the medium term and sometimes in the long term. Our universities are carriers and depositaries of national culture, science. This is not marketable because important aspects are lost if they start to think about them on a market basis. That's what you do, you practically privatize. This is a market-oriented model in which majors may cease, faculty may cease, students may be excluded from higher education, because according to them, according to the board, no direct economic benefits, basic research may cease, damage that cannot and should not be undertaken. It is also a very sad result of this process, which I always object to, constantly, and we will resolve to end this process, the permanent and final split-up of this country. Fewer and fewer people are given the opportunity to participate in higher education, to listen to science, to think about science, and to start their whole life with knowledge and a high level of knowledge in the process of the labour market. By the way, Stumpf István, as he called it, spoke of a historic transformation. I would also like to talk a little bit about Stumpf István and a little bit about it, and I would like to ask you why such a historic transformation should be done in the middle of a Covid epidemic, tell me. They also tell us why we have to submit these laws just before Easter, and why we have to discuss them on a Friday, packed a lot of laws here in the House. What kind of method is that? Fidesz method, I know that. But then you'll have to justify why it works that way. I will continue by saying that István Stumpf's character and his role are infinitely scandalous in my opinion. He was a constitutional judge, and now he is a former Fidesz politician, who is the government commissioner of the change of model, and he is speaking of Hungarian universities as financiers, and he describes these institutions as performance-resistant, poorly competitive institutions. You have been in power for 11 years; you would have had 11 years to fix scandalously low teaching wages, improve the institutions, improve their competitiveness, put more money into higher education. Now, what have you been doing in higher education for 11 years? They've narrowed it down. You're the ones who even designed the chancellor's system to clean up the finances, I remember you pulling the belt. However, universities did not lack because they were misfarming, but because they didn't have enough money to farm, they didn't have enough money to sustain themselves. That's a very big difference. How are the instructor's wages? [[Dr. Hoppál turned to Peter:]] Don't wave it, please, head. How are the instructor's wages? [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Why? Shouldn't I?]] How much does an assistant get? What kind of wages are these in college? ! I worked in college, I know what it's like to work there and how hard it is. They don't work there for money like the secretary of state here, and I think they're making as much profit to the nation as the people who are now in cahoots and migrants. So don't wave your heads, be nice. They would have given money to these people and these institutions! And, yes, who was the constitutional judge, Mr Stumpf, when he was chased away, the Hungarian government drove the CEU away from Hungary, one of the best universities in the world? [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: You're still here, I see.]] Péter Szijjártó is campaigning in some countries by listening to the fact that the rector there told us that they were also connected to CEU as a famous Hungarian university when he inaugurated Péter Szijjártó as an honorary professor. The CEU is no longer a Hungarian university, he's been chased away, he's in Vienna! [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: He's right next door!]] Be nice, don't yell at me. Don't yell at me. Listen to me, and then, if you have anything else to say, tell me. You drove the CEU to Vienna. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Lies!]] From now on, don't campaign to become a Hungarian university! You have killed Hungarian higher education in the last 11 years! And who was it, by the way, if we had already turned to the Constitutional Court with the CEU submission, who was then the Constitutional Judge who watched them sit on this Constitutional Tribunal petition for years, which could have saved this institution in time and kept the CEU here? At that time Stumpf István did not have a word for lex CEU, and now the high man, who is the government commissioner for improving the competitiveness of Hungarian higher education, is resurrected. Don't you feel terribly awkward about this? Wouldn't it have been 11 years for you to fix this higher education? So, what's the latest? That CEU could go, but the Chinese University of Fudan would come to Hungary, and thus unleashing this on the entire Hungarian higher education, they would bring a Chinese spy centre here, trying to justify their compulsive compliance with the Chinese Communist Party's desire to let this institution in. It's also infinitely scandalous. Instead of a student town, they want to bring here a university under the direct control of the Chinese Communist Party. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is embarrassing!]] What a change of direction these are! But let's get back to this change of model, because what Stumpf István is doing, I think he speaks for himself, how infinitely uncredited everything he says about this whole story. [[15.10]] What you're saying is also untrue. I asked the University of Pécs, Szeged and Debrecen for the Senate's decisions on how it went down. All I got was the Pécsi, the Debrecen and the Szegedi didn't get. It's an interesting story, by the way, why they don't give it to you. But from the Pécs, I learned very clearly, my dear Mr Hoppal, that the whole Senate has been blackmailed. That's what it says. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál applauds.]] It was a huge extortion that didn't allow those people to ask questions in a normal way. It was said that rural universities would not take place, and at the beginning of January the phone rang, or the e-mail came to say sorry, though. In a month, they wanted to move the whole thing through the middle of the epidemic, during the exam period in the Hungarian Parliament, so that no one could possibly have a second to get involved in this whole story. There's the honey trade, you might call it that, but I like to call it blackmail. They said that they would get EU money, that they would get a raise if they agreed to this Faust deal, they would do it themselves, and they would let the model change happen. There is nothing normal about why these institutions should agree to a change of model. You're the ones who said they'd get paid if they let you do that. This is a mockery of universities, and this is also a mockery of democracy. 'Cause what's this model change about? It's about creating a parallel state, a state in the state, which, in my opinion, is also a classified case of electoral fraud, because if someone is organizing a state task and building parallel power structures, where they make the public disappear, and then they're gonna do whatever they want on their own, and God knows who they're giving it to, it's also stealing the state, it's cheating, and it's a brutal election fraud. It is not possible to exclude complete institutions from democratic control, especially with Hungarian higher education. Together with the current 11 universities, 21 universities have now become private foundations and there will also be 11 public-interest trust foundations for other purposes. We're talking terrible fortunes. And they're also paying attention to putting their own people into these institutions. We all know that I was reading the laws that were filed on Thursday on Grand Friday, because, well, why are they sent in on Thursday, I was sure I could find things in it that were more than problematic, and there I could see that anyone could be virtually implanted in the curatoriums with a multimillion-dollar salary, minister, politician, mayor, municipal representative, government official, anyone can go and go, for example, Mayor Kecskemét's Lady. It's just that we're going to vote on this law, and he's been sitting there for a while. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] in this institution in the Supervisory Board. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Modestly! György Szilágyi: Give me the respect!]] So I think that I would also like an explanation in this regard, because Mrs Szemerey is not only the mayor of the city, but she is a member of the supervisory board of the trust fund receiving from the state the operation of the local University of John Neumann, taking up a monthly salary of HUF 1.6 million in addition to her mayor's salary for quite some time. But the thing is, according to current laws, he couldn't have done it, and he still couldn't have done it. You have submitted this law, which we are now discussing in a package with many others, so that they are incompatible and important in order to make conflicting positions compatible. So, what about this one? Are you guys allowed to do everything now? Or what's the law? What's the law anyway? If there is something illegal, the two-thirds vote quickly on it, and will it be legal now? Is that how the Hungarian Parliament works? Because that's what Szemereyne's example shows. Is everything okay with the Matolcsy clan? Are NER guys allowed to do anything? How's that? ! And yes, Mr Hoppal, I have seen from those data requests the situation of these Senates. If I had been sitting there, I would have voted no, I'm sure. But the thing is, the blackmails you've done to these people are your poverty certificates. They're unscrupulous, completely unscrupulous! They've made everything dependent on whether they agree or not. Is this how higher education is organised in Hungary? Blackmail? Is everything really okay with you guys? ! [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] Now yell, now yell, Congressman. Twice a 15-percent raise? $1,500 billion in EU development money with a 25-year framework contract? With predictable funding? If you come, it's a change of model, you'll get it if you don't. What do you call this? Because I call it blackmail. Fidesz and KDNP in the middle of the Covid epidemic, while the students were sitting in the exam period and trying to pass their exams, already who was healthy, they caught and completely blackmailed the Hungarian universities, and now here he shakes his head and shakes his head, but the Senate voted him out. We're gonna put a gun to people's heads, how are you gonna come in our direction, or are you gonna go to hell? Is this politics? ! Because I don't call it politics. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] It's robbery-privatization, it's stone-cold robbery-privatization. And you're about to fail election 22 and take public money through these foundations so that there's no room for manoeuvre to make a civilized, normal, well-paid higher education, and there's no way to give this money to the public. That's why you're doing this. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: It's called autonomy!]] It's ridiculous, it's ridiculous what you're doing. It's also ridiculous that you guys keep yelling here instead of being civilized. I'm telling you, look at this mirror, I'll hold it for you, that's it, robbery privatization, you're doing it. You're doing it, yes, Mr. Secretary, you're an accessory to this whole process. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right! Dr. Peter Hoppál laughs.]] The board of trustees. I thought there'd be a deal between the board and the Senate and the colleges. Well, he didn't. Technically, none of the Senate's requests have been met. Technically, they didn't get a delegation to the board of trustees. The minister will put it together, what he thinks will happen, and what they think will happen. My favourite is István Stumpf, yes, regarding Pécs, he said that there would be a non-government member there, called Katalin Szili, who is now a prime minister's Commissioner. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]] So, uh, we're gonna have decorative anti-ops and anti-arts, and people who you think point to them and say, "Here's the opposition?" Well, it doesn't work like that. Don't make us look like idiots. We can see exactly how they're trying to cover up the fact that there's total fidesz control in those places. It's also ridiculous that a member of the Senate can be transferred to the board of directors. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] I would also like to quote the justification:....that the functioning of the foundation can also be made known to the higher education institution. (Dr. Peter Hoppál interrupts.) That's your excuse. Now they're gonna be the mailmen. So if the senate delegates a member to the board of directors, we can call it a postman, and that basically includes bringing in information. Otherwise, it'll be completely unknowable to know what's going on. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] Well, thank you very much. And what really hurts is that they didn't get a say in putting together the charter. Well, the fact is that the right to vote or to agree, which will be guaranteed, means that in the most important decisions affecting the university's life, the Senate will have only the right to comment, which is either taken into account by the board or ignored. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] So, these are the things I learned from my request for information, and from the laws that you have submitted. I can tell you that you have really lost your senses over the past few years, and I think your exit from the People's Party or your outburst meant that you are no longer in control. While Hungarian people are dying, suffering, and there is an existential and health crisis in this country, you are messing with it. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Peter Hoppál: Time's up!]] that they are engaged in various disputes with the rest of the world, they are inciting war and privatizing Hungarian higher education and robbing Hungarian citizens. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Your time is up!]] It's you! It's you! [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Too bad you didn't read this.]]
u2021-04-09-47	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We now have two-minute speeches because we are at the end of the block, so at the end of the first round of speakers. I give the floor first to Vice President István Hiller. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: You didn't even read it!]]
u2021-04-09-48	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to clarify three quick questions. There's obviously something we can't and won't agree on. It is certainly worth discussing that the role of the state cannot be constant, the role of the state can change, and it is worth predicting what is in the best interest of our country. I am sure, however, that the change in the role of the state in higher education does not mean that the state will give up public wealth, that the state will be left out of the management of higher education at this level, that it will voluntarily resign, and that it will hand over not only some of the rights, but also the completeness and property. I'll never agree with that. [[15.20]] There is something worth clarifying: the issue of quantity and quality has been raised by Mr Hollik. This is worth clarifying because I did not tie this to governments, but for roughly a decade and a half I saw the quantitative change, so that we needed more students and then put quality to the fore. There are things I can't do, and I'd like to ask you, there are not so many of us, so it can be answered quickly, like the Secretary of State, if you'd like to give me a quick answer, but it's also good for me to have an excellent lecturer from the University of Debrecen and the President of the Cultural Committee answer. What I want to know is that the foundation that sustains or will sustain the University of Debrecen is named after Count István Tisza. I would like to know that they intend to name the University of Debrecen after István Tisza. Thank you very much for answering that.
u2021-04-09-49	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The next speaker was Mr László Pósán. Here you go. They're all two minutes old.
u2021-04-09-50	Thank you, Mr. President, I asked you to speak to him. Honourable Congressman, István Tisza was the founder of the university. For the time being, I do not know that there is a change of name, but if there is, then, of course, the legislation must be informed here, as this part does not change according to the law. But what I asked for was that there were a lot of false statements about Debrecen from Zoltán Varga and Márta Demeter. I would like to start by telling Márta Demeter, who is not here, in case she will read back that there really is a lot of real estate listed in the annex, and here we will look at it, most of which are such that sidewalks, then service roads, parks, professors' villas and, of course, the various buildings of education, have a wide range of geographic numbers. I'm just telling you that the University of Debrecen has four campuses in Debrecen, as well as locations located in Böszörmény, Nyíregyháza, Kisvárdán, Szolnok, Nyírbátor, which all have different location numbers. And I would also like to note that first read the law, that there are two recipients of the benefit: the universities themselves [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] the assets are used, or, I'm sorry, they are owned, which have been used so far, with the right to property management; and there is another asset relief element that goes to the foundations. Now, the long list basically means handing over things that are owned by universities. Whether it's good or not, you can argue about it. Congressman Hiller said the state's giving up public property is no good. Then this is obviously being done wrong in Bavaria or Austria, because they also hand over state goods to universities free of charge, and then there is probably also a problem with democratic perception. And I would like to note that earlier there were public foundations, which were founded by left-wing governments, there were also public assets, and not to mention that left-wing politicians were members of these curators: Gábor Gellért Kis, László Varju, László Teleki, and could be classified nicely, through Judit Csehák many people. I guess it was okay then, and now it's not okay for some reason. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-09-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker is Mr Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go.
u2021-04-09-52	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to express my detailed opinion on the proposals in the next normal comment, and I would like to note one thing for the record only. It has been said here by several of my fellow Members, on the pro-government side and on the opposition side, why this is not here, why we are so few, and the rest. I would just like to remind everyone that, since we are in this Chamber, we have been constantly asked to be here only when we say something. I benevolently believe that all my fellow Members will act accordingly. For example, I didn't come here at 9 a.m., but to the House of Representatives in my office, I turned on the TV, and began the day on the closed chain by listening to Secretary Schanda's exposé, and then I also heard Mr Pósán, Mr. Vinnai Győző, Mr. Hiller, Lóránt Keresztes, and other keynote speakers, Zita Gurmai. So, this is what I'm asking you to do, if anyone reads the report in 20 years' time, don't feel fooled; this is what we're asking you not to come in unless we say something. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-09-53	Thank you very much. That is correct, Congressman, in any case, the President-in-Office will convey this request to the House. Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-09-54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In response to Mr Szabolcs Szabó: let us be kind, obviously Mr Péter Hoppál is very rarely here in this Chamber, but I am sure that when he is not here, he always watches Parliament's mediation and notes diligently. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: In his constituency he says that he is in Parliament, we know him! Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] Now, I think you have the opportunity to answer a specific question. Honourable Congressman, The change in the university model and the decision of the Senate of Pécs, the Senate of Pécs, forgot to tell you a fact. In particular, Rector Miseta said that there are certain marginal conditions for the change of model in the Senate, such as a say in the structure of the board, not the mandate of the curators to live forever, and a call back. In comparison to this, the motion before us now states that the Ministry appoints the curators, the Senate has no say in the structure of the board, no right to recall, and unfortunately, it is meant to live forever. I have submitted or submitted a proposal that the Senate can delegate curators in the event of a change of model, they can determine the duration of the curators' mandate, they can provide for a recall, and if a replacement is made, the Senate can also make these decisions. And I will also submit a proposal, Congressman Hoppál, to enable the university senate to decide on the budget of the university, the definition of the sms, the organisational and operational regulations, and the Senate of the university can also determine the terms of the rector's application. [[Dr. Hoppál turned to Peter:]] My question, honourable Member, is that you are in favour of ensuring that the conditions and guarantees of the Senate of the University of Pécs, which you have forgotten, but which you have actually formulated at the time of the vote, can prevail. I would like to ask for a very clear answer, even a nod to the head, honourable Member, to support my proposal. Another quick question I saw was that his heart was beating very, very much when Katalin Szili's name came up, that you supported the fact that Katalin Szili, who had been holding you in jail for a very, very long time, so that he lived on your salary and worked for his salary to become a member of the board of the University of Pécs, and supported the participation of two former Fidesz Vice Mayors, István Decsi and Éva Mikes in the University of Pécs. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In the Senate. What do you think of that, Congressman? Thank you.
u2021-04-09-55	With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to move away from personal activities. I think, after so many hours of debate, we should not take today in this direction. I now give the floor to Secretary Tamás Schanda. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál turning to Dr. László László Keresztes: I can't react to it!]] who will answer even at the request of the Head of the Group.
u2021-04-09-56	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, therefore, to respond to what has been said so far in the manyth hour of the debate, contributing to the exciting debate that we are having here, but allow me to start by making it clear once again and to state what I have been trying to say during the Expo that our aim is clear and clear: we want a more competitive higher education that all the players in it are interested in its success. We want Hungarian young people to have more valuable degrees at better universities and to be more successful in life. And it is also quite certain and it can answer many things that Hungarian higher education has an unprecedented potential for development, partly thanks to institutional renewal and partly thanks to the available development resources. In the coming years there is a HUF 1500-2000 billion development resource, which is an opportunity that Hungarian higher education has not met in previous decades, so it would be a mistake to miss this opportunity. And allow me, honourable Members and Members, to draw attention to the fact that there is a significant difference between the higher education policy of the national civilian government and the higher education policy of the left. We develop, provide free higher education for the institutions and for Hungarian students and young Hungarians, and provide our own wealth to higher education institutions. On the other hand, the left wants to introduce tuition fees for students, tuition fees in higher education, and debt institutions. Dear Parliament, A lot has been said in the debate so far, and allow me to reflect here on some of the issues that are very important not to stay in the air, because we do owe it to the Parliament, and we also owe it to the general public to draw attention to the inaccuracies, deliberate or unintended distortions that have been made during the debate. [[15.30]] On the one hand, allow me, Mr Szilágyi, to draw your attention to the fact that we do not judge universities on a political basis, and we never did. Several higher education institutions operating in the capital have requested a change of model and some have not asked for it. There are no capital and rural issues, nor are there any political perceptions. Honourable Congressman, Let me also make it clear that if necessary, I will say this right now, although I hoped that this was clear that all higher education institutions are equally important to us. In addition, allow me to draw your attention, Congressman, to the fact that the Rector's decision on the Rector has been made by the Senate. This has been the regulation before, and this is how the system has worked. Honourable Congressman, You said it yourself, and then, during the debate, many of the speeches expressed criticism of what the Senate had decided. The truth is, when you criticize the Senate's decision, you prove you're against autonomy. Honourable Congressman, You, as well as Vice-President Brenner, have made all kinds of cynical remarks today and in the past on the basis of which the Senate has taken its decision. I've brought all the members of the Senate of all the model-shifting institutions, and I'm not going to read them to you now, because it would take a long time, but point me out to that university professor, point me in the direction of any member of the university Senate you think we can influence, who you don't think is an autonomous enough person to make your own decision. Congressman, you can't be so disdainful of higher education institutions, you can't be so disdainful of the members of the Senate of higher education universities. Don't humiliate them with these sentences and don't look down on them. These are serious people who have made a responsible decision, precisely because they believe that there is a need to develop their institution. And some have made a responsible decision not to vote for a change of model. We respect each of your opinions. You have to respect that. Appreciate them. Appreciate the university staff and the members of the university senates. Honourable Congressman, You don't know how you made the statement that the chancellor system doesn't work on the one hand, but on the other hand, that we meet the Chancellors more than we do with the Rectors, and we don't even deal with the Rectors anymore. I don't know, he accepts me as Deputy Minister for Higher Education, and I'm sure I meet rectors and deans more often than chancellors, although I also talk to chancellors relatively often. I think it is clear, as is the case with the management of the institutions, that the Chancellor's system has made sense and worked well. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to draw attention to your grave error in the fact that these institutions will no longer be subject to public procurement, so that public money will be lost in public money. Congressman, I must ask you today, as I asked you yesterday, to read the bill, and you will see exactly what is going on. The institutions will continue to be subject to public procurement and will continue to comply with all other regulations. [[György Szilágyi: For the record only, I did not say that! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no disadvantage for higher education institutions that have not asked for a change of model. Even the assumption is offensive, and we strongly, strongly reject it. As you put it, you called yourself pro-popular, conservative, right-wing and civil, if that word meant anything to you, it wouldn't mean anything to you, even if it meant anything, and then you would have the respect, Congressman Brenner, to not look down on the members of the Senate of the universities. Allow me also, Mr President, to draw your attention to the fact that I have spoken about this longer in my expo, if necessary, I would be happy to repeat later that the autonomy of higher education institutions that have changed their model is not decreasing, but that the autonomy of higher education institutions that have changed their model is increasing significantly. I should also like to draw your attention to the fact that you, as well as Congressman Brenner, and many other speeches have criticized our proposal for legislation on the Board, which is clear and clear, we want higher education institutions to be able to meet all their missions and truly become a key member of their region. We want you to have all the help you can get, and that's why we think there's a place for professors in the board, there's a place for academics, there's a place for the actors in the local economy, and there's a place for the people who define public life. Honourable Congressman, It is a false accusation, which can be denied as quickly as possible, that only persons belonging to the national civilian side would be included in the board of trustees. All you need to do is look at the media broadcasts, and you can say right away that the University of Miskolc is going to be a board member, Mayor Veres, who, let's say, can be accused of a lot of things, but not of right-wing bias. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] Katalin Szili will be a member of the Curatorium of the University of Pécs, who also cannot be accused of right-wing bias. [[Demercation from opposition parties. Szabolcs Szabó: Yes! Yes! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, After all, it is a matter of honorable people with high performance in public life who enter the board of trustees. Allow me to reflect on and draw your attention to the fact that, in parallel with the maintenance change, it is important that the state universities and the maintainer have about the same licenses as the new maintenance model for the board of trustees. Minister Hiller's comment was indeed exciting, and let me thank him for assuming that we too want good for the Hungarian young people, we want good for the Hungarian economy and we want good for the Hungarian people. But allow me to draw your attention to the fact that the logic you have said can be a serious debate. On the one hand, the loss of a civil servant status is not a disadvantage or a disadvantage. Employment under the Labour Code and other guarantees will provide more flexible and better employment opportunities for employees of higher education institutions. We can also see what the Member said, that it is his most serious criticism of the curatoriums, perhaps that is what has been said, the most serious criticism is that they can decide for themselves on empty curatorial sites if they receive the exercise of the founding right. But we know a lot of these bodies. This may be where the expression of feudalism arises, Member. But with that power, the congressman is also attacking the Academy, where the members inside are also deciding who else to hire? Or even the Bar Association? There are such bodies, and this is a legitimate solution to the fact that, in order to ensure independence, stability and professionalism, the achievement of strategic objectives in the long term, the legislator will therefore seek such a solution. [[15.40]] It's not unprecedented. And if you call the university world feudalism, does that apply to the Academy? I trust that's not what this is about. On the other hand, as far as funding is concerned, as I understand it, Mr President has objected to the fact that there cannot be such a long-term commitment in democracy. And I think it is important that 15-25-year framework contracts are established and some annual financing contracts are in place, because in the world of universities and I think that you know that, because you have spent a lot more time in the world of universities than I do, it is important that the university's management is able to ensure a long-term predictable operation for its own staff to ensure a predictable career opportunity, a secure livelihood and a foreseeable future for its own staff, teachers, teachers and researchers. And for that, the predictability of funding is important. I can bring this up not as a disadvantage, but as an advantage in the case of the new system. Moreover, Mr Vice-President has also indicated that he cannot draw the model change from the otherwise considered good higher education strategy, and I say that I would argue in this with Mr Vice-President, that this is possible because, although the form of foundation is not included in the strategy, it is clear why this model change is necessary, that the institutions are in a situation without real competition and performance, that their administration is bureaucratic and that they have outdated governance structures in many respects. Or, just to read one more sentence:. In order to improve competitive training and quality, it is therefore increasingly necessary to adopt the view that public higher education institutions can and must operate according to market principles. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, yes, the strategy contains how to look for new methods of governance, and how to bring higher education closer to the market. And it's clear that it doesn't contain the detailed rules, and we just got there, and in recent years, we've come to the point where we can debate this model here in the Parliament within the legal framework. Congresswoman Gurmai had some comments on the midnight submission, but let me take this as a compliment to my colleagues. My colleagues are working long and hard, so we may be submitting a piece of legislation around midnight. I would like to thank everyone who has spent a lot of time and energy preparing these laws. On the other hand, Congresswoman, allow me to think that you are a hypocrite when you know very well that you are privatizing something, selling it, misusing it, the national civilian government takes it back. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] Then he gives this to such a special foundation in order to ensure a stable public mission, a public goal, so that this asset can continue to be of Community interest. [[Z. Dániel Carpathian: Sure, sure. Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] You're privatising, we're taking it back, and we're going to give it to you in a stable way in terms of securing the community's goal. After all, speaking and criticizing this from the Socialist Party is, after all, a rather surprising and rather strange attitude, Congresswoman. And allow me also to draw attention to the fact that, in part, the foundation you criticized, partly in any other case, that the property is transferred to the foundations under public service obligation. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: They didn't read it! Dr. Gurmai Zita: Yes, you can.]] I would also like to draw your attention to this point, and that is why this cannot be privatisation. Again, it's strange when they say things like that from the Democratic Coalition. Moreover, the most difficult and painful thing is that they want to make a rock-hard party policy on an important issue that is really about the future of Hungarian young people and Hungary; that they cannot start from anything other than power and money, they think that this is what it is all about. While this is not true, there are far more important goals and there are more important issues, and we hope that Mr Arató will see this once in a while. I would also like to reiterate once again that the institutions will continue to be subject to public procurement. I must say to Mr Crusades, in any case, that Commissioner Stumpf simply cannot be here because of the legislation. But I think he'd be happy to have all the arguments. I think it is unworthy to see a left-wing group leader in the absence of a government commissioner who I assume, as a faction leader, knows so much about house rules and other issues that he knows that he cannot come into the Chamber and speak. I think this is unworthy, especially because Commissioner Stumpf has done serious work, not only in this case, but also in countless other cases. That you're unhappy with me, I accept and bow to that, of course. As a sad remark, I have to point out to the Member that I was waiting last night for the authority in the debate, but unfortunately we could not do it there. I wouldn't bring that back here. Congressman has raised the issue of higher education wages. Indeed, it is an important question. I am not satisfied with the pay of higher education workers either, which is why it is important that we are now able to give them a new opportunity, partly to launch a clear wage increase programme, and partly by making model-shifting universities more competitive, and certainly more resources will be available in the coming years and decades to pay researchers and educators. Moreover, the rules will be simpler, it will be much easier for teachers and researchers to pay more money by breaking away from bureaucratic constraints. The situation with medical universities, however, is that medical schools have asked for a change of model. We take these universities seriously, it seems, against you, and if they ask for a change of model, we naturally support this. I must also draw your attention to the fact that, in part, the Member of the Council and, in part, other speakers, that real estate is not given to foundations or universities, and that it is used for public purposes. In addition, it should be clear and clear, because there has been a lot of disinformation, false news and deliberate political atmosphere in the last six hours that the properties that higher education institutions use for education are owned by universities. And from which, by the way, they can obtain some kind of return, which they can then use for public purposes, they are insured for trust funds. I must, however, signal to Congressman Mellar that he spoke loudly about all kinds of coercion and coercion with the members of the Senate, that we regard him as a more serious man than to spread such deceitful lies in Parliament. He knows exactly, because he knows the members of the Senate of the University of Pécs very well, that they are not the type to threaten. We wouldn't want to, but it's more serious people than anyone else can influence their personal decision. With regard to funding, it should be clear that the funding situation will be better for the institutions, ensuring stability, planning and quality orientation, and that the state will continue to retain its role as a customer. [[15.50]] We also thank Mr Ritter for his comments and suggestions. In part, the clear answer to which he has raised is that the role of the State's customers remains and, in some respects, is strengthened, as the role of the customer can even be strengthened by the separation of its maintenance and the role of the customer. Joining the Member, the education of a national educator is extremely important. It is our duty to ensure this, and from the customer side, the state will ensure this, and it will continue to have the means to do so. But we fully agree that it is important to do everything in our power to support the education of national education. Mr Bencsik said a lot of things, and I wouldn't even comment on all his strange sentences, but when he talks about the fact that Hungarian universities are not in the tree line, I have to tell him that it is worth talking a little bit more respect about Hungarian higher education institutions. He also mentioned the issue of Fudan University, not just him, but other speakers. And it is true that the 34th best university in the world, if I remember correctly, decided to launch in Hungary, together with the Hungarian state, the training that gives Hungarian students the opportunity to participate in the training of a higher education institution, which is the most prestigious in the world's scientific, educational and higher education competition. In addition, we have a geopolitical advantage from this training in Hungary. Believe me, students from all over Europe, from all over the world, will come here, pay the tuition, spend the money for their livelihood here to study at one of the best universities in the world. This is a good opportunity for Hungarian higher education institutions to compete with one of the best universities in the world. We can also be sure that this will have economic and business consequences, that many Chinese companies will invest in Hungary, and that the Chinese market will be much easier for Hungarian companies as well. This is a good agreement, on which it will be worth continuing separate long debates. Perhaps it is only worth reflecting on Mr Szilágyi's sentences in order to allow me to draw attention to the fact that not only the State is putting in significant resources in relation to the MOL foundation you have indicated, but the market participant is also putting in the same amount. I think it's a very good attitude. I wish there were more of these companies who put in such a substantial amount of money to finance public goals. I think that we can be proud that MOL will do this, and we can kindly add to it the shares owned by the Hungarian State as much as possible, because this way we will be able to finance twice as much public tasks as if we were to use only the shares of the Hungarian State to finance these public purposes. Actually, Mr Zoltán Varga and Mrs Márta Demeter's threat to the Gyurcsányis was bad to listen to, but after the meeting in Parliament on Wednesday, we are not surprised at anything. At least now they're threatening us and not the board members of the universities, at least that's what I mean. Last time, even the members of the board were threatened by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his henchmen. Allow me, Congresswoman Demeter, to draw your attention to the fact that the share will be profitable and that the return will be able to finance the public target. That's what the model that shows up at the foundations is about. It would be a shame to deny that, thanks to the share and the share benefits, serious public tasks can be financed in this way. With regard to Mrs Wind's sentences, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that it was the left and you who, last year, spread the fact that during the coronal virus epidemic, Parliament does not work, and now your problem is why Parliament works. The truth is, if we're wearing hats, the problem is, if we're not wearing hats, that's the problem. It should also be clear, honourable Member, that this year more people have applied to higher education in Hungary than last year, and the number of applications has also increased in institutions that have already changed the model. Allow me also to state that, of course, there is no privatisation. I'm sorry you didn't listen to the last few hours of the debate, or if you listened to it, you didn't understand the difference between what was in these billings. Finally, allow me to tell Mr Hiller that I do not know about any change of name at the moment either, but that any changes should be made to the decision of the university or the curatorium after the change of model, and in any case to the Parliament. But I don't know about any of these plans, by the way. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-09-57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are now taking a two-minute technical break at the request of the Secretary of State, because resolving the pressing need has become indispensable. (Sunning: 15.56 16.04 President: Dr. Brenner Koloman Tickets: József Móring Attila and Dr. Csaba Gyüre)
u2021-04-09-58	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome back, and we will resume the meeting of the Parliament. I give the floor to Daniel Z. Carpathian, the representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-04-09-59	Mr President, Dear House, Béla Kun fled the country on a plane. He carried Zserbos, which filled his puffy pockets, and then jewels, Countesses, ba-rons, precious stones of gracious, charitable ladies, temple chalices, many other treasures. He had thick gold chains hanging from his arms. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is how it begins, isn't it, Dezső Kosztolányi's Sweet Anna, and although this scene is fiction, it is still a depiction of saving and saving property, and what is interesting is the portal 444; it asks you to count the Bolshevik type of asset relief, which in the history of the last hundred years, although it brings back bitter memories, multiple memories, but it still rares its pair. We must also say that the government is preparing for a brutal attic sweep, because it is apparent that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and his team have considered all kinds of scenarios, and that if, in a year's time, the Hungarian electorate decides as we oppositionists expect, and a national unity government stands up, and, in the event of this failure, they believe for some mysterious reason that the national unity government will leave this matter. Anyway, he won't, so let's get this straight from the beginning. You can take this for anything, but it's not a threat, because it's a simple statement of fact, but they're forcing the opposition to assure you in advance that this horror can't stay that way. Otherwise, I can accept a professional debate on this issue. I, as a pro-market economist, am open to operating in the form of a foundation, Mr. Secretary of State. I am completely open, and I am open to the importation of all kinds of modern, either digital, or modern tools linked to organisational forms. They only explain to me where this modernity relates to the fact that the Senate may have a right to comment, a ministry, a government appoints the university curators whose recall this collective, where we are, can no longer decide to take care of their own replacement under certain conditions, and then my fellow Members from Nacsa and Hollik tandem, who explain that this is the case for management in the corporate world as well. But I beg you, we're talking about taxpayers' money here, people. Take your own work more seriously. I'm amazed at the onion fever dreams they're trying to justify the inexplicable. And we also see that these teams and curators elected by you can decide on a budget, decide on an organizational and operational policy, this scope can be recognised as relatively extensive, and, where appropriate, on the condition of rectorial elections, fellow Members. So they're gonna have deep licenses that we can't control now if this madness goes through. Here they talked about the need for modernisation, student interests and all kinds of issues affecting young people that simply throw out the security. After all, Mr State Secretary, in your next long reply and I appreciate that you are trying to provide us with long, detailed answers on why the proportion of student loans taken out by young people has increased more than double in the last year, why Hungarian young people have been forced into a mass situation to try to ensure their own survival through free use or other forms of student loans. I stress that it was not necessarily and specifically necessary to use this amount to finance their studies, but to mitigate the effects of the enormously widespread economic crisis. And you don't talk about these young people, you don't have a message for them, you don't make up for your lost wages, you don't deal with your housing problems, but you're doing your dream of modernity here, which, by the way, is a very important topic in terms of the basic overture, but the implementation and execution are certainly not the way in which a XXI meets. a market economy with a need of the century. I'd like to help you out a little, 'cause they don't seem to see you on the outside. They talk about how the situation of students has improved in recent years, while allowing thousands of families to be evicted from their homes in relation to the families of students when they have become credit-damaged. In the case of social workers, the award of a one-time allowance is even sabotaged and voted down. Journalists are told to provoke you with questions, so they run a state-funded lie factory, and while more than 5,500 doctors and health workers are forced to leave health care due to forced change, the World Hunting Exhibition will still be held for 67 billion forints, and, fellow Members, they will build triumphs from ten tons of deer antlers. Do you see yourselves on the outside? Do you see the amazing exuberance and spiritual depth, the only symptoms and impressions of which are these episodes I mentioned? It represents the image and luxury of a hedonist government that urinates in a truly amazing moral depth, and then they have the nerve to say that they are doing so with civil and national commitment. [[16.10]] A national government would not put this package of education and foundations before us, a national government would not build a Chinese university with Chinese megaloans and migrant workers, but would settle the situation of Hungarian students and upset the promised student city. Compared to this, a structure like the Budapest-Belgrád railway is once again taking place through you, where you are only agents. And it's amazing they're not even trying to explain the certificate. We also see that in terms of asset relief, although you are trying to explain a lot of things, the provisions of the National Property Act have not been mentioned here once. I don't know if they dare or don't want to, but three passes covered the state assets that are being circumvented. And the most important passage of the three is that if an infringement can be made, then the restoration of the original state can be done, fellow Members. However, in respect of the outsourced property, this passage in the national property law is no longer enforceable. This one-line amendment exposes your treachery and the fact that you're trying to outsource a thousand billion-dollar fortune, but there's no guarantee of that anymore. By the way, I know this branch from a long time ago: I have been a Member of Parliament since 2010; in 11 I was already fighting for the island of Shipyard as a national-minded citizen in Obuda, because I saw that you wanted to build a casino city on the island of Shipyard. Then, if you remember, there was also a sign at the end of Hungary, at a bridge on the island of Shipyard, because it was clear that they wanted to embed it as a foreign investment, to make accommodation with the total and amazing surrender of Hungarian interests. Then the madness was stopped. Now, see a miracle, one of the foundations will be managed on the island of Shipyard, along with half a dozen monuments, even the area of closed entertainment places. And, you know, they've been trying to build a residential park there lately, trying to build homes disguised as sports centers. I would add that a change ban has been imposed in the vicinity of us on the Roman coast. Then they lifted this ban for a moment, until a building permit was granted for one of your good friends, and then when the permit was granted, the change ban was re-established. So they don't even appear when it comes to their own investments, and now Szilárd Demeter and his team have received almost the entire southern area of the Shipyard Island, with the aforementioned Hadrian's Palace and other monuments. Don't think we're gonna let this happen. And we do not leave it this way because we are enemies of modernity, or we do not want improvements in Hungary. Of course we do, but we do not want to enrich you, but our fellow Hungarian citizens, Hungarian citizens, and we do not want the taxpayers' money to be taken away by you, but we want to use this clearly on the side of the citizens. We also see that it remains unclear whether the outsourced assets can be sold. Under certain circumstances, yes. We also do not see in the description that real estate, say in the case of universities, could be used exclusively for educational purposes. What we see is that if such a property is dumped, then its revenue should be used for similar purposes, this has been described, so let's not discuss it. But what we do not see is that this huge, hundreds of billions of real estate can not be used, let us say, for other purposes by your people, over whom you believe this Parliament will have no control. Which is why I'm asking you to stop this modern-day attic sweep. Not because the opposition wants us to stop this, but because the norms of the rule of law are going to stop this madness. If we just comply with the provisions of the Fundamental Law and the Hungarian laws, this misrepresentation will not take place, and I do not feel entitled to give personal good advice to any Secretary of State or representative of the Government of Hungary. What I do expect, however, is that if the young Hungarians, the Hungarian students, are talking about their current life situation, they should also talk about what kind of a vision they are looking for; that they would have the future of forcing them into student loans, or that instead of a Chinese university city, they would have their own student city, their own housing facilities, a housing support system, don't give them a god, a rental program, which, by the way, has been sorely lacking in Hungary's life for 11 years. I am now marking the funds for the Secretary of State in the budget, as a national-wide rental program of HUF 150-200 billion could be launched and started. In addition to the printed rents here, these properties could be purchased at cost after 6-8 years, reaching prosperity in the homeland and the possibility of well-being for all Hungarians. However, interestingly, the chemical neoliberal economic model has been paired with the pro-state attic sweep, and some strange hybrid has emerged from it. We see that they benefit those who belong to the luckier classes of society and do not give life opportunities to those who are more difficult young. It says everything about your support system that you can get a ten million-dollar discount on a house in Balaton with a ministerial salary, and as a ten-million-dollar youth, you can get a reduced loan if you think the intermediary bank will contribute and consider the citizen to be creditworthy. The same is true, however, of many other provisions from the moratorium, but let us remain on the agenda. What I am asking you to do is to stop the attic sweep that cannot be called the modern type, to comply with the laws and state standards that you have made in part, and to talk about the rigidity of Hungarian youth, their situation in life. After all, the number of candidates for higher education has not decreased by some 20 percent, and not only for demographic reasons, because fortunately these cohorts have not decreased by 20 percent compared to the age groups above them. Meanwhile, they talk about how much better their life situation, their prospects have improved, while, once again, their families are affected by evictions, 27 percent European champion VAT on basic foods, child-rearing articles, the elimination of the state leg of housing savings. I could tell by morning, because we have been talking about how life opportunities are being taken away from young Hungarians since 2010. If you have the courage, you'll be talking about this next to the package on the table. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-09-60	Thank you. The next speaker was Ms Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-09-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, I would like to respond to János Lázár: thank you for inviting me to the Mezőhegyi Ménes estate, and I will consider visiting the estate with Zoltán Gőgös. I just want to point out that the basic answer to my question was not given because the question is not that there has been progress from the 30 billion that has been added since 2016. The question is, you're saving this unique fortune for the state, why you're organizing it for a foundation. Now, it is shameful and shameful that the Fidesz government is stealing the country's wealth by means of tax frauds. Since Kaya Ibrahim and Josip Tot, we know that Fidesz is well aware of this type of tax evasion when it is being saved from a company in such a way that it can no longer be reclaimed. Times change, but the method is the same now, only now the method of fidesz theft is not called Kaya Ibrahim, but as a trust fund. One by one, newer and newer trust funds are growing out of nowhere, which, at the moment of their formation, will receive huge state assets for free. And we also see that the Fidesz government is doing everything it can to get these trust foundations out of control of Hungarian society. Therefore, rules for their operation are established in such a way that the majority of them can only be amended by a two-thirds majority. That is why the board of trustees receive the founding rights, and that is why they want to prohibit by law the possibility of withdrawing the provision. One of the latest copies of the stolen state assets is MOL's New Europe Foundation, created by MOL and the state. When the foundation is founded, MOL will receive a 5.24 percent share package, which is still in government hands, with a market value of almost HUF 100 billion. According to official information, the Foundation will take over MOL Group's support system. The justification of the bill mentions the support of athletes, artists, disadvantaged groups and local communities. Despite the fact that the Hungarian State took very painful steps in 2011 to bring MOL shares into state ownership. According to official information, 500 billion forints were spent to buy just over 20 percent of the stock package. This did not seem profitable at the time, but in a few years the Hungarian state proved how much the purchase failed. [[16.20]] Then Tamás Fellegi, Minister for National Development, explained all this, and I quote: "A step along with the expansion of national wealth, which goes beyond business calculations." The Fidesz government then said that the government considers maintaining ownership to be an important economic protection task. What does the government of Viktor Orbán do now? With the expensive money, he started handing out hard-earned government property to various private foundations. The Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation, which operates Corvinus, has 10 percent, i.e. 81 942 946 shares. The Tihanyi Foundation, which operates Mathias Corvinus College, also has 10 percent, i.e. 81 942 946 shares. And now the MOL New Europe Foundation will have 10.48 percent, or 85 955 992 shares. Half of this came from the state, the other half from MOL. It is quite obvious that the Fidesz government is already preparing to lose 2022, which is why they want to steal as much money as possible into private foundations. We're losing 300 of our countrymen every day because of the plague, but you're still busy stealing. The purpose of this bill is only to ensure that Fidesz has access to these funds even after the election defeat. This is not about any national interest or the promotion of culture. It's not the horse's foot. It's the whole horse. This current bill, i.e. the private exploitation of public property, has nothing to do with the care of talent. If that were the important thing, this money would be kept in the budget and, among other things, spent more on education. But that's not what you do. The transition to the foundation model means that social control will also cease over the assets that have been in the hands of the state. Therefore, the MSZP uses all legal means to prevent this vile theft. After a change of government, we will do everything in our power to extend the scope of the Public Procurement Act to Trust Foundations. We're doing everything we can to ensure that the outsourced state assets can't be used uncontrollably for private purposes. And let the Fidesz prepare to fail, but also be prepared not to let them escape with the country's money. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-04-09-62	Thank you. Our next speaker is Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-09-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This debate has been going on for a very, very long time, since 9 a.m., but I think that we are definitely discussing, in every way, an important and decisive issue for our future. I do not want to talk for a very long time, but there is no time left for me to raise some important points in my speech as a speaker, and since then there have been comments that I would like to respond to. A few hours ago, Mr János Lázár spoke and expressed that he did not really see what was the basis for the concerns that we expressed in the speaker's speech, that there would be a fundamental breach of the autonomy of the university. I will try again to explain and to say to Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, that we see the problem in the fact that the foundation outsourcing is taking place. We have said that we do not agree with the foundation form, because universities can be developed, efficiency can be increased in state reserves. This is shown by the many European examples that the best-functioning and most respected European universities are state-owned almost without exception. However, if you are thinking of a foundational reservation and outsourcing, then it would be possible to guarantee university autonomy in such a way that the members of the Foundation's Board of Governors could be nominated by the Senate, similarly by the members of the Supervisory Board, the Senate could also make a proposal and determine the duration of the curators' appointment. They could also lay down the conditions for recalling these curators, and they would obviously decide on replacements. It would also be essential for the university Senate to keep the decision of the university's organizational and operational regulations, budgets, rector's proposals, and other guarantees, which were also formulated by the Senate voting for the change of model, so that the board of trustees could never interfere with technical and scientific questions. We repeat these, not as we have formulated, but as a proposal amending the conditions of university leaders, academic citizenship. I would like you to give a clear answer, Mr Secretary of State, so that the government will support these proposals, which I repeat, have been formulated by the members of the Senate, by the university leaders. Mr Secretary, I was outside, by the way, listening to your speech, there were some interesting comments, let me refer you back to them. There's obviously some kind of frustration here on the government side that you've been expelled from the European People's Party. It is obviously difficult for the opposition parties to cooperate with each other in order to replace you, but please accept that you are not the left-wing political opponent in the next election, but the cooperation of opposition parties, which have right-wing, centre-right parties, there are left-wing parties, there are liberal parties who do not currently have parliamentary factions. I am the leader of the Group of the LMP, the Green Party of Hungary, so I have been listening to these oppositions for a very, very long time. Please honor each other so much that you are the Secretary of State of the Fidesz-KDNP government. I accept that you will, of course, figure out what position you will put yourself in European politics and what label you will have, then I will use it, but please accept that I am the group leader of a green party, not a left-wing group leader. His other statement is that I missed Stumpf István. I think you know, Mr. State Secretary, that István Stumpf could have been a government commissioner, that the experts could have been here in the box, that István Stumpf could have been present, and I think that if he had taken the task that he had received from Prime Minister sufficiently seriously, he should have been here. And I repeat: I consider it a significantly greater omission that your direct boss, László Palkovics, is not here as the responsible minister, or that former Rector Bódis, Secretary of State Bódis, is not here. I also resent this because, even last year and this year, Parliamentary Secretary Bodis was very open to a direct debate on these issues concerning higher education, so I do not understand, and I wonder why they did not fulfil their obligations, why there is no Minister, why there is no Secretary of State here. But more importantly, I would like a clear answer to the question that the government will support the guarantee elements that we did not formulate, but the university leaders who decided to change models, so that the university Senate really has its decision-making rights, and that academic autonomy can really be understood; we should not be talking about the autonomy of a curatorium that you have chosen for an uncalled and indefinite period, which is otherwise supported by the motion. So these guarantees are going to be built in by the government? What I would like to talk about, which I have just begun to talk about at the end of my speech as a speaker, is how we find it particularly serious that the largest rural universities of the University of Debrecen, the University of Szeged and the University of Pécs, were also condemned to be forced into this so-called model change. I have already mentioned that in June last year, Minister Palkovic made it very clear in the press that the large rural universities will not be integrated into this system and can operate in state reserve. It is not often enough to stress the enormous importance of these universities. Debrecen has 27,000 students, Szeged and Pécs universities have 20,000 students. [[Dr. László Pósán: 30,000!]] 30,000; this was underlined by my fellow Member that there are 30,000 students at the University of Debrecen, which is a major university. I do not want to underestimate any higher education institution, but I can only feel the role of a university of 30,000 or 20,000 students in the case of Szeged and Pécs. These big universities work with 7 to 8,000 employees. There are training centres in several cities, so we can say that universities are not only the main players in the region's centres, but also in the region's area, and they cannot be avoided from the point of view of the region's potential to break out. So here we can say that, in addition to the direct higher education function, these universities must have a huge role to play in terms of employment, but they must be able to enforce the catching up and the opportunities for break-out in the regions concerned. We are talking about three regions which, unfortunately, have been among the 20 poorest regions of the Union since the accession of the EU, so obviously one of the objectives to be formulated is that, despite your failure to achieve this, these regions should be able to catch up with the EU average. [[16.30]] But obviously, knowing the Hungarian municipal system, knowing the economic power of the municipalities, we can see that these large rural universities are more important players in economic life. Obviously, because of their local political legitimacy, local authorities must have a kind of catalyst role in regional development, economic development, but universities have a huge role to play due to their strength, economic weight, student numbers and the importance of students as consumers and local consumers. So this is an extremely serious attack not only on higher education but also on the areas in question, that these universities are being put under direct political, irrevocable political control in this way, without guarantees, without guarantees for the time being. This prevents these fruitful cooperations from unfolding. In the case of Pécs, Mr Péter Hoppál had interesting thoughts, and I hope that he will be able to answer my questions in some form. I have already mentioned that unfortunately between 2008 and 18 the number of students at the University of Pécs decreased by 10 500. [[To Dr. László Pósán:]] Here, I would like to point out to my fellow Member that the University of Pécs once had over 30,000 students in 2008-2009. Now it's a little under 20,000, so it's like 1 90,000 to a few hundred, and it's a huge loss for the city. But what I can tell you is that there have actually been positive trends over the past few years. So, for example, the increase in the number of foreign students has been very, very good for the university. So, indeed, the university's international relations system has been enriched, the university's influence has been strengthened, and the consumption of foreign students and foreign students in Pécs and the county's economy alone has obviously been very, very good for the city's economy. So there were positives of this kind, but this cannot in any way support the kind of process, the kind of outsourcing and political control they're about to take. It is quite clear that I have already quoted that Rector Miseta has said that the Senate supports the change of model under such marginal conditions that the Senate of the University of Pécs would like to claim the right to replace the curators, to have a choice not to give the curators their mandate forever, and to provide for the possibility of recall. So the question of whether the government will support this is very, very relevant here too. The University of Pécs also has a little over 7,000 employees, 1886 teachers, and it is not possible to list how many very important, valuable properties belong there. The present proposal is about the transfer of more than a hundred properties, colleges, libraries, clinical buildings, many locations, not only in Pécs, but also in Kaposvár, Zalaegerszeg, Szombathely and Szekszárd. Similarly, the University of Szeged has enormous significance, with an even greater number of employees, 9700 people. Here, too, the number of students is currently around 20,000. We can also say here that the number of students in Szeged decreased by more than 8,000 between 2008 and 18, so we can say that the University of Szeged was one of the losers of the past decade. This is László Rovo the Rector. Here, my fellow Members have mentioned a lot about the strange process that took place around the Senate meeting in Szeged. First, he wanted to make a Senate decision against the public, and then eventually it didn't happen. He also specifically stated in a relatively optimistic way how important the guarantees were and said that, on the basis of the information that has been provided, if I say that we are asking for these guarantees, they will be provided. The question is that the Rector of Szeged was right about the behaviour of the government, and he will also give the University of Szeged the guarantees that the Senate of Szeged can determine the composition of the board and the supervisory board of the foundation that maintains the university, not just for one person. Again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to make this clear. However, we have heard relatively many debates about Debrecen. I think that the University of Debrecen has received special attention, due to its weight, during today's debate, but there have also been very harsh criticisms, and the former Rector has also formulated a round pretzel that he believes that the real aim here is to achieve direct political governance of universities and to ensure the provision of supervised assets managed by the institution. So the criticisms were also very hard formulated in universities whose Senate decided to change models, and we look forward to the government's responsible response to the fact that it could be given, to provide these guarantees, which they would otherwise expect. I have one last question for the Secretary of State. It is quite clear that the process you call a change of model, which we call outsourcing, will now take place if you finally vote in favour. At the same time, Hungarian taxpayers must maintain universities, and universities will be financed with Hungarian taxpayers' money. Especially if we are talking about large rural universities, right, three, the University of Debrecen, the University of Szeged and the University of Pécs, then we know that these regions are not known for their outstanding economic strength. So how will this be reflected in terms of financing? So where and what resources will come from, which, where appropriate, will reduce the use of taxpayers' money in this regard? Because what kind of model change is it that nothing really happens from the point of view of financing? Because there are no capital-powered companies in the region that are able to participate in some way, and yet we do not even see the intention of doing so. I would also like to have an answer on this in terms of funding. Well, I very much hope that Mr Secretary of State will answer these questions and that he will lead with less political than professional arguments in his reply. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-09-64	Thank you. Our next speaker is Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member. Here you go.
u2021-04-09-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unlike my custom, I would not speak to him in speech, but I would read what I had written myself in advance, because I would like every word to be exactly in its place. So, my fellow Members, let us be clear that it is not entirely normal to negotiate 19 proposals under one hat. I understand that it is easier and faster to settle the parliamentary debate here in many ways, but it doesn't make any sense, because it is not possible to analyse in detail 19 laws or legislative amendments in a comment and in a debate what is the problem with them or what is good about them. It is not even possible to do so even in the case of proposals on university outsourcings based on almost a single budget, since they are not exactly the same content. I note in parentheses: there are places where the maintenance foundation also receives property, some where not; some where the maintenance foundation receives a share or share, some where not; some where the university is placed in church reservations, some where the foundation receives a football academy and a stadium, some where the maintenance foundation is not closed. In addition, for each higher education institution, it would be worth discussing in detail exactly how this application was made for the maintenance change. Because let's be honest, in many places, this happened typically in a sloppy way, something that university citizenship couldn't really comment on. So, the argument that universities asked for this, and it's voluntary, let's just forget it, because it's not true. There was no majority vote on university citizenship that they wanted to do so. And it's important to note that by university citizenship, we mean all the teachers and students and not the Senate. In particular, the concrete outsourcing proposal also came from the Ministry. It can be documented, so it's a fact. So there was a ministry proposal that the rectors and chancellors took to the Senate and the faculty leaders and put on the table. In some cases, this has been presented so that we have such a proposal and we should think about it. I keep it somewhere else and in parentheses, and most of them say it's gonna happen, period. So the idea came from the ITM, the proposal was drawn up by the ITM, and the Senate agreed only afterwards. And we know that there are times when you want what you know you want. And here I note, a little jumping forward in my line of thought, that after a government change, we will have our first task in higher education, that we will ask the academic citizenship of the outspoken universities what they really want. And I think that we will be able to propose, propose a solution and, on the basis of this, develop a compromise solution that, knowing, read through, is considered by the now outsourced university communities, and will decide whether they want to come back to state reservations, or if not, we will look for a third solution. [[16.40]] Now, back to my original starting thought that you can't negotiate 19 proposals at once. I have already said that the proposals for university outsourcing also differ, and that one should take 15 minutes to complete them, and that the issues of new trust foundations not performing higher education tasks are completely different. They will have a completely different task, a different purpose, a completely different range of assets they have in their possession. It is simply not possible to deal with them uniformly in a debate, because what is the relationship between the MOL New Europe Foundation to protect MOL management's backside, the Future Generation Land Foundation that owns thousands of hectares of Mezőhegyesi Ménes property, or, say, the Makovecz Campus Foundation that receives the empty university campus in Piliscsaba? Nothing at all. No more than that, it is a completely different story that has been written in parentheses in the Higher Education Salad Act, for example, that in a large block there are even salad laws, closed by parentheses, that Thália Theatre Nonprofit Kft. will be awarded to the Millenáris Foundation. In conclusion, this debate in this way, in this form, makes absolutely no sense. We can ask why exactly the authors are doing this. There is one thing we can say for sure, not because of what the pro-government representatives and the authors say. Obviously, in the case of universities, it is not a question of taking on and applying some kind of progressive Western tradition here. Foundations of this type, to which a majority of themselves and their friends are appointed, are nowhere to be found, and there are not as many universities as Hungary in a state reserve in a country of this size, which a kindergarten can count, because in fact, six state higher education institutions remain, and only two of them count as substantial, ELTE and BME; this was not a qualitative indication, but a student figure. Nor is it true that we are taking on some kind of American or Western European model here. I looked at it, for example, according to the latest available data in the US, there are 4300 higher education institutions, of which 1,600 are state institutions, 40 percent of the institutions, and about three quarters of the students go to state institutions. We had 29 state universities before the start of the restructuring, so before the so-called model change started many years ago, and about 90 percent of the students were state students. In Hungarian, Hungary was the situation in the institutional structure and student rates around the time of the restructuring, as is currently the case in the United States. Now there will be a completely different structure than, say, the United States. Not to mention the fact that the best private university, CEU, was driven away by you, and that's why you're moving to Vienna. In return, a Chinese university is now being brought here, with as many state resources as the entire Hungarian higher education receives in one year; but I will close this comment now, because it will probably not be possible to discuss this case in a quarter of an hour. And let's also point out that the Boards of American Private Universities, let's say, are based on a completely different logic. They're not a couple there, they're not a couple, they're not a couple, they're not a party leader, they're putting their own friends in it. The next argument that arises is that, with restructuring, universities will have a better financial position and easier farming. The big deal is that the extra money they're now giving out to the outsourced foundations could have been passed on to the institutions as a state-owned university. Increases in salaries could have been granted if public universities had remained. The big situation is that their farming could have been organised in a more rational way by remaining state-owned universities. Moreover, these universities have been asking for years to help them with legislative changes that give them the opportunity to manage more effectively. They asked for it, they did ask for it, but they didn't ask to be organized under curatorials full of fidesz. The other argument raised is how autonomous universities will be now. In reality, university autonomy has been consciously reduced for many years, because that is what the Chancellor's and the Consistor's system means. And in reality, with this package of legislative amendments, the Boards of Trustees of Foundations get unlimited autonomy, and in addition, here I note in parentheses only the autonomy of the Board of Governors of the University, and I say once again that it is infinite, where fidesz politicians are implanted, and most of their own friends, and some people are decorated, who well-intentionally accept it, such as the mayor of Miskolc, but regardless of that, he will be in a minority; he will be closed by closing. My comment is: through the package of laws, they are cementing themselves into the curatoriums of universities' maintenance foundations. So far, it was an opportunity for the founder to hand over the founder's right to the board of trustees, which will be mandatory from now on, and they can't even give it up or give it up. In English, apart from the members of the board, no one in the world will be able to say what they are doing, and the Senate's eyes will be spotted by the fact that they can delegate a member to the supervisory board. And that's what I'm saying. This must be the face of the request for university citizenship. There's no other way to interpret it. Not to mention that they have just come to realize that the rules of conflict of interest do not apply in the case of foundational functionaries, because in many places they enthusiastically recorded their monthly high fees in parentheses, who receive a fee of between 800 thousand and 1 million to 600 thousand monthly, which is at least one and a half times, some have more than twice as much as a university professor's basic salary, so they take on this high fee, but they have no idea, for example, that this is not legal in the case of a mayor. This was the case, for example, with the Mayor of Kecskemét in the supervisory board of one university, namely John Neumann University, and the law is now being adapted. We also note that there are other ways in which they try to cement themselves into the foundations. In the past, they have started in this direction by amending the Fundamental Law, and now they are trying even more from the financing side to this concreteization. It has already been written in the previous law that medium- and long-term contracts are entered into for strategy, financing with maintenance foundations, and now they put in the law that, if this contract, say, is unilaterally violated by the next government, for example, is not willing to finance, for example, a foundation governed by a board of Fidesz members, which is mostly Fidesz members, then the foundation, i.e. the curatorium itself, plus, as long as the trial takes place, the court will be obliged to order the maintenance of the funding by temporary measure. So the next government can't in principle say that it doesn't fund an outsourced Fidesz foundation. Well, that's one thing I can tell you, it doesn't work. Of course, they're gonna vote for this now, but don't think we're gonna let that happen. We are not going to finance it after a government change to have it as their own, and we are not going to finance these foundations, and we are going to get money from universities. It doesn't matter what they put into this law, because we're not gonna accept this legit stretch. And, as I said at the beginning, we will be asking the university citizenship directly about what they want, and as I said, I think we will be able to make an offer along which we can bring them back to state reservations by compromise or find a third solution. In conclusion, this whole package of proposals is unnegotiable, unacceptable, so bad and harmful that it is not even worth submitting an amendment to it. There is one thing to do: vote no for it, and after the change of government, there will be a need to clean up higher education and simply nationalise the assets of foundations that maintain non-educational institutions, and there will be no other solution. Thank you very much. [[16.50]]
u2021-04-09-66	Thank you. The next speaker was Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-04-09-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to share my thoughts with Mr. Mezőhegyes and the fundraiser. Mezőhegyes, right, one of the last remaining large state agricultural assets. He survived world wars, communism, the termination of the sugar factory, survived the privatisation of 2004, when the company was privatized, and survived the period when this government privatized the land itself, which was then suddenly reversed here with a very interesting and unprecedented rule of law, I can't say it any better. In addition, at that time they gave the owners so much grief money that none of them went to the courthouse, while otherwise buying the estates in Mezőhegyes completely legitimately. You can imagine how satisfied the local Fidesz people who might have bought the land of the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate were then by buying the land back from them. So the start-up itself is very interesting, as this government is related to this vast wealth and value. Among colleagues who may not have been there, I would say that there is also a huge built heritage in the area, which has been renovated in recent years from ten billion public funds, and there is an extremely impressive, beautiful environment there today. By the way, we are talking about 30,000 hectares of agricultural land, which is a huge area, and another interesting fact is that we are talking about land worth around 40 golden crowns, which is well above the national average, and the soil is of high quality, and the vast part of it can be irrigated. To understand the proportions: less than 5 percent of Hungary's production areas can be irrigated, and here more than half of the areas and further improvements are under way. As I mentioned earlier, we've all done this together with billions of public money, taxpayers. Exactly how much money has been pumped into it so far, we do not know that because, by definition, I have been able to collect the items for which the name of the Ménes estate has been indicated, but the European Union funds that came to the company as area payments or greening as other benefits have to be added to them. So, in summing up all this, it is safe to say that it has so far come to Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates from EU or domestic public funds in the order of HUF 100 billion. In 2016, when the resolution plan of Mezőhegyi Ménesi's estate came before Parliament twice in a row, as I mentioned, twice because it was sold once and then it had to be undone, and we discussed this, I was already there in the debate, and here is the protocol before me, I drew attention to the fact that, of course, the Jobbik faction supports any initiative that initiates the creation of a really state-owned sample estate, which actually serves national interests. There was no shortage of beautiful words, and practically every paragraph of the draft law could be agreed with, since it was visualizing that the stud estates would be targeted in the region and here at several counties, it would be able to play a role that could serve as a model for Hungarian farmers. So in order to increase their competitiveness, in order to learn about the latest technologies, the state must be able to maintain a sample estate in each region, and this is very right. For some historical reasons, this is linked to an agricultural university, but there was no way to do so, so obviously it was given to the stud estate to take over this role. Therefore, this objective was in any event eligible. I drew attention at the time to the fact that the legislation was flawed because it did not include a paragraph to prohibit any privatisation later on, nor did it include such a clause. The absurd situation is that they did not respond to this at the time, and now, with the absence of this sentence, for example, they support the need to outsource this stud property into foundation property. Well, that's not an argument at all, but I'd like to underline that. If the goal is to never privatise this area again, it is very simple: to bring in a bill on this issue, and I am sure that Parliament will vote for this further difficulty by a 100% majority, with a four fifth rigour, let us say, and we can go as far as we can, everyone will be a partner here. So you don't have to outsource it to fundraisers. Another argument, which has been said, is that it will be easier to involve external capital, external resources in this form. Well, that is not true, either, my fellow Members before me have brought up countless examples that contradict this, and it is possible to find even the regulations of this form of operation, the solutions that would be more bureaucratic and attractive to external resources. In addition, I did not hear any real argument here in the lead on the pro-government part as to why this step is necessary. I stress that we are really talking about one of the last serious agricultural assets in this country. When the first Orbán government felt its loss, it privatized the 12 large state economies with the decisions after the last. At the time, it ran under the name "Dirty Twelve," and I have a spookyly similar feeling right now. So many people here have already referred to the opposition side, and unfortunately I agree with them to the maximum extent that this is actually a desperate asset rescue step, they fear that next year they will lose the elections, and in this way they will also lose the public money pump that they are thinking of, for example, Mezőhegyes. And unfortunately, it's not just about the built inheritance and the 30,000 acres. We should not forget, however, that there is an unprecedented stud centre that has given the world four separate species; it is enough to mention the nonius, perhaps all of us have heard of it. In addition, some of these varieties are now referred to as the 21st century. In the first century they were able to find their role again, to become marketable again, and I believe that state control, the possibility of state control at all times, should play a major role in this too. Since I mentioned the dirty twelve, let us not forget that the introduction was spookyly similar there too, the argument is why those public economies need to be privatised. In the case of the 12 large public economies, there is no state control left, no public good can come up as a consideration, as they still function as privatised private capital-enhancing companies, only that the ownership circle is always replaced by those who are closer to the Prime Minister's heart. For these reasons, I say that there is no other fair way to close this case unless this bill is withdrawn. It is absurd, indeed, that we are forced to negotiate 19 completely independent laws here in one single package on one parliamentary day. So this also shows how much you are not interested in what the opposition, or even the actors in the sectors concerned, is really thinking, because they would have liked to have expressed their views here, either individually or by law, if time had allowed. We have received many complaints, arguments, and fears about Mezőhegyes, for example, because they have already experienced a number of model changes. To sum up, it is absurd and unacceptable for them to have one of the last real large national agricultural assets of the country outsourced in this way, instead of really using it for the noble purposes for which it would be appropriate, i.e. it could function as a model for farmers in the region of Hungary, for anyone, from the smallest to the medium to the larger economies, to present the latest available technologies and methods, and to assist in the resurrection of famous Hungarian horse breeds in the future. It is also an absurd and unacceptable situation, for example, that we call ourselves a riding nation, and that is how we think of ourselves, while in Slovakia there are just twice as many people who can ride in proportion to the number of souls in our country. So there's plenty to bring in, but that's not the direction we're looking at. Speaking of horses, it should also be said that the National Horse Programme has failed badly, and that of the great promised developments, only those that were actually built by entrepreneurs near the government, and that are not sustainable and not adapted to the needs of the breeds concerned and the region concerned. [[17.00]] In this way, it is completely unacceptable that you are out of state control, and, of course, on behalf of my faction, I can say that we will not be able to support this. It would indeed be completely unnecessary to submit a technical amendment to him, and I will certainly push in some of the trolls, but only in order to bring the matter back to the committee meeting, and there we will be able to recapture the arguments that we have here, and which I think are entirely justified. I therefore demand, in the interests of Hungarian taxpayers, citizens concerned about Hungarian national wealth, that this be immediately withdrawn, and that the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate, if I say so, should remain in a position to maintain full supervision of the current Parliament, under the status of permanent state-owned status we support. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-09-68	Thank you. On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-04-09-69	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to answer a few little things. Dániel Z. Carpathian said that the transferred property should all be used for educational purposes. Well, that sounds like a good idea, but life is more complicated than that. So let's say, an outdated boiler room that can't be used for anything, we obviously don't know that from this point of view, like no sidewalk, and there's a lot of things that can be classified at this time. It is therefore necessary to provide for the possibility of rational management in this respect. I would just like to point out that from this point of view, when the state had a maintenance attitude to universities, it had the same logic. In Debrecen, the Gyula Benczúr College, where there were at least 400 students, was sold by the state sometime in the mid-1990s, and the Teva Pharmaceutical Factory had a factory in place, so many students were reduced then the possibility of housing the state was the maintainer. Whether it's good or not, that's obviously something to argue about. I would just like to point out that, in this respect, wealth management does not have the type of guarantee that if the state is the maintainer, then it is definitely good if it is not the state, then it will be very bad. I'm saying it's a matter of attitude. By the way, as a maintainer, the state was fundamentally positive and responsible towards most universities, because in return, this must be acknowledged, much later, but a whole new college was also built. So wealth management has such implications, some things are less needed, and others need to be brought in instead. As far as the question of financing is concerned, this was raised by Lórán László Keresztes, and I can say that I obviously do not know Pécsi, so I do not want to comment on it; given the financing of the University of Debrecen, I have to say that already thanks to market relations, which is moaning, because it has to operate in completely different legal relationships, there is more resources from the market than from the state budget. So when we switch over, [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] With the change of model, I think it could take even more momentum. Thank you very much. [[János Schanda applauds.]]
u2021-04-09-70	Thank you. I will also give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the leader of the LMP faction for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-04-09-71	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to clarify one thing. I fully agree with my fellow Members that these laws can only be helped if they are withdrawn and forgotten. As an amending proposal, we submit the proposals, the guarantees, the guarantees expected, that the university leaders, the Senate of the University have formulated. Nevertheless, we will, of course, vote against these proposals. But I think it will have a very, very serious message, how the pro-government Members vote on these amendments, which would give the Senate the right to fill the Board of the Foundation instead of the government, and likewise to retain the right to decide on the most important issues concerning the functioning and future of the university. This will be a very clear message not only for university citizens, but for all Hungarian people. I have one more question, and it has been said here that the Fidesz mayor of Kecskemét has been appointed completely illegally as a member of the supervisory board of the university, and has now been cynically submitted a proposal that would allow ex post and resolve this conflict of interest: will this mayor repay the illegal, illegal millions after the appointment? What do you think of the Secretary of State? You can express your personal opinion and your position as Secretary of State. After all, your government is responsible for the legal situation that we have, and your government is responsible for keeping the legality of the situation. I asked a question in particular, or in general and specifically to János Lázár, he modestly did not answer this question about what the already appointed active Fidesz politicians, Members and members of the government would do next year in the event of a change of government. So Minister Péter Szijjártó, Minister Judit Varga, Representative János Lázár, Member István Bajkai, and may I say, will you give up your membership of the Board next year if the change of government takes place? And usually the government agrees that until they're 80, they can keep it uninvitable. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Are these politicians in charge? Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-09-72	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he would like to respond to what he has said in the debate since his last speech. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State. Secretary Schanda, you have the floor.
u2021-04-09-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, it is fitting that I respond to what has been said since my last comment. On the one hand, allow me to draw the attention of Mr Z. Kárpát to the fact that Jobbik's activity, how it is transferred from the far right to the far left, shows well when quoted in Parliament from 444 and is regarded as a credible source and a media product whose articles are worth quoting in Parliament. Of course they're in love with it. I must also draw the Member's attention to the fact that, in fact, there is no substantive change in the powers of the Senate. So far, as far as the budget, rector, text, the maintainer had certain licenses. Here, the maintenance person is what really changes, but basically there is no substantial change in the licenses. Allow me also, Mr Z. Kárpat, to draw your attention to what I have already indicated to Congressman Hiller that there are bodies, there are working solutions, this is no stranger to Hungarian public thinking, when a body can decide for itself who is allowed into its own ranks. I've given you examples of this the last time. I must admit that I had difficulty following every sentence of Mr Z. Carpathian, even though I really tried, but how we got mixed up with the World Hunting Exhibition I did not fully understand. However, he raised the question of student loans, so let me respond to this, because it is an important and good system that makes it easier for countless young Hungarians to participate in higher education studies. Despite the fact that the national civilian government retains free higher education, with the help of the national civic community, higher education in Hungary could remain free of charge for young Hungarians, but, of course, there is a need for a student loan system that contains unprecedented benefits, including, by the way, from zero percent interest to the release of multi-child mothers, it contains countless national strategic solutions that I ask the honourable Member to acknowledge. Allow me also to draw attention to this, and I forgot to mention this to Mr Arató earlier, because he also referred to this question, which relates to the island of Shipyard. He asked a little cynically what kind of literary activity actually required the development of the island of Shipyard. On the one hand, I am pleased, and I would urge you to accept that this is a good thing that the island of Shipyard will contain more opportunities and more good things for the people of Budapest. [[17.10]] On the other hand, the island of Shipyard is an important place because of light music. This cultural tradition, this popular music tradition, will continue to be preserved and maintained by the Foundation. I am proud that we can contribute to the establishment of a foundation that provides an ideal place for contemporary artistic groups, an opportunity for young people to meet, and that Budapest returns an important, emblematic point to Budapest. I would like to make it clear to Mrs Gurmai that the funds allocated to these foundations cannot be used for private purposes. We have said it a hundred times here in the debate, I believe that they will receive wealth and resources for public service purposes, and that they can use the wealth they have received directly or otherwise for the benefits of the wealth they have received. In addition, Congresswoman attacked the foundation to be set up together with MOL. Allow me to say once again that I am proud of the fact that there are companies in Hungary that, together with the state, participate in the financing of public tasks. There is more money to finance the public task, more money to provide talent, climate protection and much more that the foundation will finance. Therefore, let us be proud of this and not attack the Hungarian company for this, but on the contrary, let us thank him and cooperate with him. I would just like to begin with a few small remarks for Mr Crusade. On the one hand, although it is not the duty of the Member to know this, I am vice-president of the Christian Democratic People's Party. As a Christian Democrat politician, don't accuse me of anything that we've quit the People's Party. We didn't quit. We're members of the People's Party. Allow me to make this a private remark. However, honourable Member, honourable Group leader, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that if you vote like a leftist, you speak like a leftist and make an alliance like a lefty, then you are lefty. Therefore, I believe that we can say with a calm heart that you are a left-wing politician. But perhaps this is less relevant to the debate, and I merely noted it because you took the time to do so. Once again, I must protect Commissioner Stumpf. I think that he has worked very hard for these legislative proposals, that he has been very well prepared together with the colleagues of the Ministry, that he has participated in debates on numerous occasions, that he has given various interviews. So I ask you not to criticize the work of the Commissioner of the Government, as far as possible. I repeat once again: as you know, you could not have spoken at today's Parliament meeting, and you must also acknowledge that. I hope you know the rules on this. Honourable Congressman, I have answered you in the previous round about the universities of rural sciences, but you asked me again, so I repeat. So we had no intention of transforming these universities, but if universities have asked for this transformation and initiated it, we are happy to support them in this process. We also ask you to respect it so much, to respect the heads of the University of Pécs personally, and to lead it, so that if you ask for it, you will definitely support it. In addition, I think that you should agree with this transformation in your goals, as you have identified catching up as an important aspect in the region of the University of Pécs, how the university can help the region's economy. This is exactly what the change of model is all about, one of the most important goals of how the university can operate not independently from the city, but not independently from the region and the companies, businesses and other actors operating there. This is what this change of model is all about, and that is what the development of higher education institutions is all about. That is why it is important for you to support this, because this gives opportunity not only to the university, but to everyone living in the region. Honourable Congressman, Yes, in order for this to be possible, it is important that the businessmen of Pécs are the public figures of Pécs, and it is important that the professors of Pécs can take part in this common and beautiful process, which, if you do not attack, could be even more effective in the coming years. I urge you to take a deep breath and see that not only the university, but also the city and the surrounding settlements, the whole region, will benefit if this change of model is achieved and the university can truly fill up with new life and get new opportunities. Congressman also asked about the sources. Indeed, we would like these institutions not only to live from state resources, not only from the return of the assets given to them, but also to participate in as much research and development as possible, joint research and joint development, join as many international programmes as possible, and indeed develop serious corporate cooperation. But that's why we need a change of model to make this happen. Moreover, what the honourable Member has asked me is whether the decision of the Senate of the University of Pécs is respected. I have the decision of the Senate of Pécs in front of me. For every point, I can say that the decision of the Senate of the University of Pécs is fully respected by the proposal that lies here before the Parliament. So I believe that if you were serious about what you said earlier, you can wholeheartedly support it, although your sentence scared me that you would not support this bill, even if we supported your amendments. I guess we shouldn't talk then. And my request is for you to understand that on behalf of another person, I will not make statements for you or anyone else. For Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. He raised several questions, perhaps not worth dealing with, but the most important thing is that he brought the issue into the debate of what opinions were obtained from certain student or educator groups by voting for the citizens of the university. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that, as the country operates on the basis of representative democracy, there is also a representative democracy in universities. So you can question all of Parliament's decisions with this force, and you can say that every single issue can only be decided if we ask everyone in Hungary. If we want to put Hungarian higher education into full failure, then of course we can try such a function, but I do not think that would be lucky. And the rules of representative democracy are that those represented by the Members will then accept the decisions that have been taken. On the other hand, and this most important external player does not question their rights to make decisions on behalf of the institution. My request is that you respect that. And I also appreciate, rather, that the different proposals are positive. Each higher education institution is different and therefore model changes should also be promoted in a different way. The problem would be if they were all the same. Perhaps, however, it is worth discussing the overall and overall process of changing the model of higher education, which will determine the competitiveness of the coming years, the development of many thousand billion forints in the coming years. That's why I think it's important to talk about it this way. [[17.20]] Allow me one more sentence. Mr Szabó said that the mayor of Miskolc might be in the curatorium in Miskolc, but he will always be in a minority. It shows that he does not fully understand what the change of higher education model is about, that it is not about party politics and power and money in which left-wing representatives can think, but about how the operation of a higher education institution can be better. And I honestly believe that the mayor of Miskolc is interested in making the University of Miskolc work better, to be more competitive, to be more effective, to have more students apply for better results on the international stage, to develop more corporate cooperation, and I am almost certain that the mayor will not be in a minority, but in a majority, because I am also sure that the other members of the board are interested in this. Finally, to the comments made by Mr Magyar on the stud estates: I believe that Mr Lázár, Commissioner of the Government, explained in detail the concept that relates to this bill, and I believe that there is no debate between us in the objectives. I hope that we will also be able to convince you in the instrument, because this is a better and more secure solution, that this wealth will serve a public mission and a public purpose, and that is the national value, and there is no better solution. And that's what you've asked for, and you've asked us to be responsible for the region and the profession of this company and this wealth, and that's what this foundation model is all about, that's how it's going to be possible for the region, for the people there, for the families there, for the educational institutions there and for the whole profession, that's what this solution is all about. I therefore urge the honourable Member to go against his own faction and support this proposal, because I am quite sure that we fully agree with each other on the objectives. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have come to the end of replying to previous comments and allow me to finally thank everyone who participated in the debate. I was able to participate in a very exciting debate today, thank you to everyone who contributed to this. Have a good day and have a good weekend. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-09-74	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt Keresztes, the leader of the LMP, has applied for a post-meeting speech: our city, called Pécs 48th. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I was faced with an interesting situation: Péter Hoppál, a representative of Pécs, just posted on his social media site on Facebook that I ran into this room, said my opinion and left. The reality is that I have waited for the end of this debate, I have been actively involved, and Mr Péter Hoppál has left the room hours ago, so the Member has again declared a false statement. He got tired, left, or I don't know, he had better things to do, but I can tell you that I worked through this debate for the sake of the Pécs, and I kept arguing that the autonomy of the University of Pécs could be preserved against Peter Hoppál, who once again betrayed Pécs, betrayed Baranya again, and betrayed the citizens of the University of Pécs. Well, in my post-scheduled speech, I have to talk about a system problem affecting Pécs and Baranya that points to the quality of the current government; I have mentioned this case here when amending the Mining Act. So I was specifically approached last year by people living in the Croatian Hermitage in Baranya County with the indication that someone is engaged in illegal mining activities in this area. I, of course, immediately contacted the government office and indicated this problem, who also responded to me with a relatively long lead time, that they, indeed, were faced with this problem and had some sort of crime scene. Now, after that, I sent an official letter to the government office, and I asked to be informed of the report on the exploration of illegal mining activities and the decisions to take measures. Months went by before the government office even gave me an answer, but it didn't give me this information, it didn't send me the records. I repeat: this is illegal extraction, illegal mining activities, which has been recognised by the government office. At the time, I indicated in a debate to Mr.Péter Kaderjak, who had been replaced since then, that this is a very serious problem, that the government office is messing with a Member of Parliament, and following such an announcement, which concerns the detection of such a serious crime and offence, simply does not respond, and I then formally sent the request for information to the government office again. It has been months, since then the government office has not responded, and they do not wish to issue me a report on the work that the government office has done, what it has determined, what decisions have been taken on the measure. That's quite unacceptable. Then I turned to Minister Gergely Gulyás as Minister of the Prime Minister's Office in a letter to explain that this is how it works, so that the Hungarian government does not work, the public authorities do not cooperate, they do not fulfil the obligations set out in the law. Gergely Gulyás then gave me the answer that he was going to investigate this matter, obviously he has been working diligently since then, Minister Gergely Gulyás. At the same time, I'm not waiting any longer. I have filed a complaint in this case because I believe that, on the one hand, that if there is illegal mining activity, then the authorities alone have to do so, but it is a completely separate case that Hungarian laws are not respected by government agencies, they do not respond to official data requests, they do not give an opportunity for a Member of Parliament to come to the end of these matters for the benefit of Hungarian citizens. It's an outrage. And I think that this case happened in Baranya County, but it could happen everywhere else, and otherwise I can tell you that I'm constantly getting these signals from many counties, that government agencies are absorbing these cases, they're not doing their job, and I think it's outrageous and outrageous, and it's directly the government's responsibility that this work is not done by government agencies, and in this way they don't allow us to do our job. So I look forward to the explanation of Minister Gergely Gulyás, I look forward to the answer to my request for information from the Government Office, I look forward to seeing how they have acted in connection with an illegal mining activity, but I am quite certain that I will get to the bottom of this, and with their criminal responsibility, the authorities and those responsible will have to explain to them why the Hungarian government and the Hungarian administration system do not fulfil their duties as described in the law. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-09-76	Thank you. Member Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-09-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not one of those politicians who've been monitoring every decision of the government, and they're looking for a flaw in telling the world that I'm always standing in front of your proposals by trying to think logic, trying to assume good intentions for the first time. I did so when you announced that you would appoint a Minister for Animal Protection and that you would tighten up animal protection laws. I was very happy, and I believe that this pleasure was shared by civilians who, over the last thirty years, have served their existence, their lives, their health, their cars, their family homes, this heroic struggle, animal protection, these animal welfare things, because politics has been indebted to them for thirty years. So I was happy when they said that, so I was happy to hear the announcements. I must be honest with you that after that, my joy was a little nuanced that a consultation was announced on this matter as well. I think we can trust those civilians, the civilians I mentioned, so much that we respect their wishes and accept their proposals, because without consulting, they know what our debts, what our delays in animal protection are; but anyway, I've taken one down, we've consulted, we've wasted time, we've spent money on it, we've gotten used to it in the last ten years. Yeah, but then the black soup came. Let me quote one first. Don't listen to what I'm saying, listen to one thing I'm doing. Orbán said this in the early 2010s. Well, what happens now? The national consultation on animal protection I mentioned earlier has just come to an end. And what happens again? They're having a hunting exhibition that costs 67 billion forints, and they've ordered a multi-ton deer agantap. [[17 .30]] To help my fellow Member András Tállai understand the figures, HUF 67 billion is HUF 67 000 million. That's what we're spending on the hunting exhibition when we speak aloud about animal protection laws being tightened up by the government. So what you're saying is consulting, tightening animal protection laws, and what you're doing is spending 67 billion forints on a hunting exhibition showing the killing of animals. I admit that hunting is an important part of hunting, but this hunting exhibition will not be about protecting nature. This will be about only one thing: Dr. Zsolt Semjén's hobby of promoting and presenting the man who travels to northern countries to hunt, hunts, kills from hobby the animal that will be transported by helicopter. Let's simplify the image. The government wants to bow down now for the fallen, tortured, unclaimed animals. He caresses them with one hand and pulls out a knife with the other hand and stabs them because that's what it's about. Do you know what could be done for 67 billion HUF in Hungarian animal protection? We could provide the animals with constitutional protection by setting up an animal protection police. We could neuterize all stray animals in the country with cats, dogs, all of them, and we could install shelters in every county that are the 21st. It meets the requirements of the century. We could get the animals chirped for free, get the animals killed for free. While we are talking about how important these things would be and how important they would be, they will continue to spend 67 billion forints on a hunting exhibition in a repulsive and distasteful way. For tens of millions of forints, the gates made of deer ant are ordered to this exhibition in a grotesque manner. But you know what? Give yourself a chance. If you think the 67 billion forints will return at this hunting exhibition, the hunting exhibition will benefit all the unclaimed animals! Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-04-09-78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good rest. Have a good weekend.
