u2021-09-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 3rd day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, Again, I have a sad duty to fulfill by announcing that József Pongrácz died in the 77th year of his life. József Pongrácz obtained his mandate in the 5th constituency of Heves County as candidate of the MDF in the first free parliamentary elections after the regime change, and he was the party's parliamentary representative for a term. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Preparatory Law and Justice and of the National Security Committee. He worked as a recognised pharmacist in addition to his political and public activities, and was president of the Heves County Pharmacy Association from 1994 to 2000, and vice president of the National Pharmacy Association for two years. For his work and his commitment to the profession in 2005, he was awarded the Silver Cross of the Republic of Hungary and in 2017 the gold medal of the Hungarian Pharmacy Chamber. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-1	Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I have good news for honest Hungarian people, and I have bad news for Viktor Orbán and Fidesz. The pre-election takes place with huge participation, until now more than half a million people have cast their votes, and by tomorrow night, the number of primary participants will probably be over 600,000. There is no need to explain why this is important to opposers, to Hungarians who want to change, but perhaps here I am also trying to explain to you Fidesz people that this is the way democracy works, people expressing their will, choosing who should represent them in the Parliament, and not as it looks to you that Viktor Orbán appoints the party soldiers who will fight to represent the 1 percent and defend the interests of the 1 percent. So the pre-election really works as a celebration of democracy, and it is no wonder that you can't do anything about it, no wonder that the MTI, in violation of the law, didn't remember the beginning of the pre-election in any row between the 250 news of that day, and Viktor Orbán reacted in an infinitely cynical manner when I confronted him with this violation of the law, but we have long known that the public media is not among them, but for the propaganda of Fidesz. But they try to keep it quiet, as their ex-government spokesperson once responded to an unpleasant question, when they tried to hide something again: "But did you manage? They haven't been able to keep quiet, everyone knows about the primary, and I want everyone from here to vote, if you haven't done it yet. The other bad news for you last week is a photo of Sándor Csányi taking pictures of Gergely Csányi Christmas, actually standing up for him. He is the richest man in Hungary who is not rich at the mercy of Viktor Orbán [[Csaba Dömötör: Don't you want him in prison? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you campaigning for Csányi? Are you serious?]] And he's the one who's got a pretty good view of market developments. That's what they say on the stock market, they shorted you. Everyone who can see clearly on the field is counting on your defeat, and I think this is just another rather good news for the Hungarian people who want a decent change. There has also been good news from Germany, where the CDU-CSU party association, which has so far dealt with you, Viktor Orbán, has suffered a historic defeat, and the Social Democrats have won the election, who are expected to form a common government with the Greens and Liberals. Hungary's most important partner therefore starts the next period with a government that clearly condemns the rabble of power and the insane and uncontrolled theft that you have committed here in Hungary for the last 11 years. And if someone is looking at Graz because of all the bad news, then I have to tell you that there was an election there yesterday, where the Communist Party won, so you can start with what you want. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Long live! Dr. Pál Völner: We knew who you were with!]] I'm just telling you what people who are visiting Graz are looking for. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches, who do you support?]] [[13.10]] The next and even the result is ultimately [[Moore, the president's ringing the bell.]] Orbán's family members are already fleeing abroad, Ráhel Orbán and István Tiborcz, the power couple on our feet, decided to stop being here and move their seat to Spain, a country with socialist leadership, as an economic migrant or who knows how. Interestingly, the city of Marbella, popular with organized criminals, became their destination. They complained about how bad their poor children would be at home. Obviously, in the private school where children will be sent from their multimillion-dollar luxury villa, the only children and grandchildren of Russian oligarchs will meet Viktor Orbán's grandchildren. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Left-handed country with Russian oligarchs?]] Obviously, they'll be much less insulted there, that's good news. It is also good news that Viktor Orbán's cashier, Lőrinc Mészáros, has held his wedding and is urinating as if there is no tomorrow. A million-dollar concert by Rod Stewart, but he had Luis Fonsi and his team in the same place, right, the author of Despacito, the performers of one of the most popular pops hits, who knows how many million dollars. He spread his hand, but that's interesting because a Hungarian person doesn't earn as much in a lifetime as Lőrinc Mészáros does in half an hour. This is how a gentleman of Fidesz amuse himself, as if there were no tomorrow, and the good news is that, indeed, you do not have a tomorrow in a political sense, because from tomorrow, from the spring of 2022, you do not have any further advance here. Now the opposition electorate in the primary election will find the common denominator, the candidate for Prime Minister, whose leader will defeat you, Gergely Christmas is expected to be, and they will find the candidates who can also join the common denominator in bringing together the majority of society that wants to change. So good news for decent people, bad news for Orbán and his gang. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-27-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If I may, your speech has drawn such an excellent structure that I would insist on it, and I would like to express my disagreement in a row with what you have said. First of all, he said that so far, there is agreement that if people express their will, then that is a good thing, that is the essence of democracy. I say that we agree with this, so in our last 11 years of governance, we have also held a number of highly successful national consultations and referendums, on which you have been playing sport about this silence, your insignificance, your negligation, your not taking note. If you really care about people's opinions, I suggest that you catch up with these formations, and then you will find out exactly what people in Hungary think. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What you've all boycotted!]] This weekend, in connection with the so-called pre-election, the Gyurcsány show, Ferenc Gyurcsány met Hungary and the Hungarian people. And you know what your ally, your ally, said when the people expressed their will when the simple Hungarian voter said what he thought of Ferenc Gyurcsány? Then he yelled at her from half an inch, with a red face, to shut her up. Now, that's the idea of democracy. Congressman, I can't hear separation. So if democracy is so important, if democracy is so important, then why doesn't it stand up and say that, yes, we need...
u2021-09-27-4	You misunderstood, Mr. Tordai, this is not the time to distance yourself, and then afterwards.
u2021-09-27-5	We need power in 22nd, so we can do anything, but there really is a line we can't cross. I think that if you are speaking in Parliament about the importance of democracy and the importance of people's opinions, then it must also be made clear that there is a line that we are not crossing, and that your ally, your boss, has crossed this line not for the first time, but several times, and last time this happened at the end of last week, we have not found any separation from you. This Ferenc Gyurcsány is exactly the same Ferenc Gyurcsány, who 15 years ago led a horse-riding attack against the Hungarians who disagreed with him, shot out the eyes of the people, and then made them get away with it, and even decorated the guilty. [[Gergely Arató: Orbán is protected from people by armed guards, doesn't that bother you?]] They're asking why we're talking about what happened 15 years ago. Because the same thing is happening because Ferenc Gyurcsány is the same person, the same leader of the left, and he also wants to silence people who think differently, and we will not let that happen. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How will you not allow it?]] The other: he highlighted the identity of Sándor Csányi, whom I welcome in this way, but I do not understand that there is a misunderstanding. Didn't you guys talk about how these people belong in prison? What just happened? There's something wrong with the disk. We should check with the others here, see what's going on. Are we happy with their support, are we happy with the support of Hungarian businessmen, or do we want to send them to prison? The other part is, do you know what position Sándor Csányi has? He's the president of the Hungarian Football Association. He's in charge of stadium construction. So, what's this about stadium construction? How's that with the support of football team sports? I am glad that you have finally made me see better, but you can also stress these words in these speeches. The third part is that the Communists won in Graz. Well, congratulations, Congressman Tordai, congratulations. I thought that if I stood up here in Parliament and told you that I was sorry that you were a communist, you would stand up and ask for this. But no! You beat me to it, you stood up, and you said that I was a proud communist, and my comrades had already won in Graz. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Do you know what communism is? Do you know what communism is? ! Hundreds of millions of people were murdered in the name of that idea in Eastern Europe. Do you know how many people in this Parliament who are personally or through their parents, through their grandparents, have been imprisoned in the name of that idea? [[13.20]] There may still be support in Western Europe, but that's because they didn't try it there. So I would like to suggest that if you want to build communism, Mr Tordai, you should try it in Western Europe, go out and be happy for them. Hungarians do not want communism in Hungary again. And with regard to Gergely Christmas, I see that there are two types of left-wing politicians at the moment. One can't do anything, it's Christmas Gergely, there's traffic in Budapest, there's homeless people, there's chaos; the other can do anything. This is Ferenc Gyurcsány, and we must prevent his return to power for us Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-6	It is now up to the representative of the LMP, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Tomorrow, the opposition pre-election will be completed, and by Wednesday evening, we will find out who will be the challengers of the majority of government in the parliamentary electoral districts in April 2022, and who will enter the second round of the opposition pre-election. Now we do not know who the winners and losers will be, but one thing is certain that in the last few days the primary election has proved to be a celebration of democracy. By Sunday evening, more than 500,000 people voted for the future, gave their views on the government, said yes to the change. They pretended nothing bothered them. They were not bothered by the sightings of the Fidesz people when they went and stood in front of the tents. But it didn't bother them that it was raining, that people were able to stand there for an hour to vote. Yes, it is likely that by Tuesday evening we can say that 7-8 percent or even 9-10 percent of the electoral candidates participate in the primary. That's a great thing. So many moved despite the fact that the opposition did not have billions to properly inform people about the details of the pre-election, but people passed it on to each other and encouraged each other where, when, how to vote. It was shocking, but unfortunately it was expected that MTV, public TV or public news agency, with more than HUF 100 billion a year, had failed to perform the public service task, gave no meaningful information about the pre-election, pretended that nothing would happen, closed their eyes or looked the other way. They failed to notice the primary, they failed to notice that the tents had long, long lines in front of them, that people had gone and voted. However, we can say that the Prime Minister's debate and the local debates have been seen by millions of people, they have been watching, and these millions know that they can. That's one way to talk to each other. They have seen that cooperative but, where appropriate, counter-interested parties can argue preparedly, supported by professional arguments. These debates also showed that what the Prime Minister is doing is not the only way he is going to express himself on Kossuth radio on Friday mornings. The opposition parties have laid the foundations for the government programme, which has indeed been debated in substance. And I would like to refer to what the Secretary of State Orbán said, yes, this is quite different from Fidesz's lying national consultations on issues that are many of which are liars and which could only be answered by saying yes. Over the past few weeks, volunteers and activists have done a fantastic job in the settlements, in the street events, and we can only thank them from here, and as everyone who has participated or helped in this process has encouraged people to come to vote. Yeah, there are a lot of people in this country, right and left, green, liberal, conservative, socialist, and so on. The country is not an orange mass, as you would like to see. We think about a lot of things, and we want to express it, which is why we want to live in a real democracy, which is why we changed our system in 1989, and we are preparing for this in 2022. The opposition parties can cooperate, we can handle disputes, and we can show the difference between democracy and the world of NER. We know that there are still a lot of tasks ahead of the opposition next year's election, but the pre-election has clearly shown that many people have had enough of the Orbán system, a lot of people have already overcome their wholly legitimate fears, dared to go out to the polling stations and bravely take on the fact that, yes, Viktor Orbán, the local kings and the NER oligarchs must be replaced. A new, just, sustainable country must be built where everyone has the opportunity to intervene in public affairs. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-09-27-8	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-09-27-9	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, When the Hungarian left talks about how beautiful the Gyurcsány show is called the primary, and you could choose the best candidate here, they could have at least had the tactical sense not to entrust this task to the representative who is running alone in the primary as a candidate in his own district, and where you could be enveloped in advance that you would receive the most votes at the end of the pre-election. This is the broad sense of democracy of the Patriot People's Front. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Then, of course, you carried the green flag in front of you in the then KIS, and then you continued to do so in the Medgyessy government to talk about renewal and the importance of the change of regime in 2021. Obviously, on the left, you have survived several changes of regime, not by living, not by acting, but by surviving, honourable Member. But it is a good example of your case, and that it is you who are speaking on this subject, that it is really a Gyurcsány show, where their background deals have already decided everything and who else would be the leader of the left, like Ferenc Gyurcsány. Who else is so capable of influencing, if necessary, blackmailing his fellow parties or leaders of other parties on his side? Ferenc Gyurcsány, for whom it took only a few months for him to overthrow Agent D-209, Péter Medgyessy, who first made him his own advisor and later became Minister, and thanked Ferenc Gyurcsány for his failure to take over from him. I mean, how do you think you couldn't do the same thing to anyone else in seconds, twisting them around your fingers or flicking them out of left-wing politics? And we heard in the autumn speech that Ferenc Gyurcsány had no inhibition. If necessary, he will falsify the budget numbers to Brussels, if necessary, conduct a horse-riding attack against his own people, his own nation. This is the rule of law you are talking about, that I want to bring this back to Hungary. Well, this Ferenc Gyurcsány doesn't have any inhibitions. And it comes out every day, every day. Last time we saw him, from an inch to another person's face, how he yelled at him and tried to threaten him, and then quickly explain himself in another video. Now Ferenc Gyurcsány has no police in his hand, no water cannon in his hand, he cannot order the launch of rubber bullets, the launch of tear gas or the cavalry attack, he does not have the bodyguards of Peter James, or his bodyguards, or they can explain in many ways. That is why all he could do was go and yell in the face of the electorate with whom they were supposed to celebrate the diversity of democracy in that forum, honourable Member. In their own Facebook group, it was written about the conduct of the pre-election, in a place where even Szabó Timea might be in the position of an administrator, so that we lie to people about having an external attack on the pre-election system? Come on, it's embarrassing. You gotta admit, it's frozen. You have written such things in your own internal forums, honourable Member. Don't make it look any different out there. And we also saw and heard how Ferenc Gyurcsány said that he would make those who stood up for the right as intellectuals, artists and known people. You know, a few weeks ago, a few months ago, we had a memorial in Taban where we remembered the deported Hortobágy. And a lady came to me, who was taken to Hortobágy when she was about three years old, and said in a trembling voice that her parents had been told in the late 40s and early 50s that they were going to make them runaways. And then one day the black car came, they had about 20 minutes, they had 40 kilos, and they found themselves on a train that they didn't know was going to the gulag or going to the Hortobágy. And he was luckier because he went to Hortobágy, and he was luckier because he returned with his family. But when he came back, he really was a land runner. Not only for the three years they were on Hortobágy, but when they came back, they were second-class citizens in Hungary, branded until the change of regime. And the people who were beneficiaries of that system now say the same words and tell the right-wingers that we will make you land runners. And some people still have that reflex because they remember that time. [[13.30]] But we also saw that Ágnes Vadai threatens the right-wingers with Rwandan examples, András Fekete-Győr enters an editorial office and threatens journalists there. We also saw and even heard here from Peter James last week that he threatened to sexually assault me, and Szabó Timea is always threatening me with prison. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Is this the burial of the trenches? Is this the change of regime you are saying that another peaceful period is coming in Hungary? All you do is constantly stir up hatred, at a time when we would have something to be proud of in Hungary. If you look at the fact that there is a record high employment rate, there is a record low unemployment rate in Hungary, really, the overall economic product, the work of the Hungarian people, which can stay in Hungary, because it is similar to you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] left-wing politicians do not take it abroad that there is even a possibility of tax refund and 13 months' pension. [[Gergely Harvesto: Before the election...]] There's nothing to be happy about, it shouldn't be a hate campaign. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-10	Now it's time for DK's representative, Gergely Arató.
u2021-09-27-11	Thank you very much. I am very pleased to see here the fears of the Secretary of State from the opposition's pre-election [[Defiance in the ranks of State Secretarys.]] and that half a million opposition voters will choose the best candidates to beat you next year. And as DK, it's a special pleasure for me to see how terrified they are of Ferenc Gyurcsány and fighting against him all the time. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: A country is terrified of him!]] But it's useless, because Ferenc Gyurcsány is not the only one who will beat you. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Beat him?]] and remove it from power, but from the Hungarian electorate. One thing I'd like to ask you to do is to try to raise the quality of the answers a little bit, because I'm about to face subway 2. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What does that mean? Dr. Pál Völner: The Four! Dr. Bence Rétvári: What was that supposed to mean?]] What I want to talk about is more important and more important: [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the situation of women. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán reiterated his view of the place of women. So sooner or later, everyone ends up in the kitchen making dinner for one's mother or wife. Women should be in the kitchen, women should go to the kitchen. And I wouldn't go into Viktor Orbán's family right now. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I think against the Fides, we don't want to tell you how to live, what to do with your family. The best I can offer you is that if the Prime Minister does try cooking, he will find great recipes in the cookbook "Gyurcsány in the Kitchen." [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Pál Völner: Business!]] But seriously, let me draw your attention to the fact that you underestimate Hungarian women, you still live in the last century. This also results in the lowest proportion of women's representatives in Europe today in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Interview from Fidesz: In Iceland!]] You don't drive a carriage, you communicate with a car, you communicate with a mail pigeon, you communicate with a smartphone. It would also be time to arrive in recognition of women, if not in the present, but at least in accordance with Article XX. By the end of the century. Perhaps you didn't miss the end of a historical era yesterday. After the election in Germany yesterday, Germany will have a new chancellor. Angela Mercel... [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] .......................................................................................................................................... Merkel was the chancellor of Germany for 16 years, held the post for 16 years, and proved that a woman who is purposeful, empathetic, capable of keeping a coalition together, is capable of keeping a country together, but she can lead a great power effectively and successfully. If Angela Merkel had been born here in Hungary, you would have sent her to the kitchen or the delivery room, not to the workplace or politics. The thing is, of course, we know who your heroes are, because András Bencsik wrote that the heroes are the Taliban. The Taliban who expels women from the workplaces, from schools, who send them home to cook there, as in the Prime Minister's dream. Dear pro-government politicians, Wake up! It is 2021, and now everyone knows that women are also qualified as leaders. Everyone knows now that a woman can run a country. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: All humans have known for a century! You just figured it out? An intervention from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungarian voters will decide on this, first in the primary...
u2021-09-27-12	I didn't say anything to Congressman Vitany. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-13	Thank you. So, they're gonna decide on it now in the primary, and they're gonna decide on it next year in the election. We believe and know that Klara Dobrev is suitable for the opposition's presidential candidate, but not only will she be able to win against Viktor Orbán, I will look at her face when she realizes that she is defeated by a woman she looks down and thinks fit in the kitchen, but she will also be able to control and manage this country. We believe that women should be given equal opportunities and equal roles in all areas of life, that they should be able to choose careers, choose the world of politics, and be leaders in the same way as men. That is why we have nominated the Prime Minister for Klára Dobrev, and that is why the Democratic Coalition has most female candidates in proportion to the primary election. I'm asking you to think about how you think about women, what you think of them. Think about it, because not only will they face Klára Dobrev, not only the opposition voters, but also their own mother, their own wives, their own daughters, if they continue with the same text from the last century or even two centuries ago. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-27-14	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-09-27-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I'd like to respond to the subway threat. This fits into the line we're used to here. I would ask you to better explain exactly what you mean when you threaten Members and others with a subway arriving. [[Gergely Arató: Symbol!]] I'm sorry, but such threats simply led to an act of XX. in the last century and in recent years. [[Gergely Harvester: Unbelievable!]] As far as your concerns about women are concerned, I do not want to respond to your first suggestion, because it is quite simply false news that you claim. They're lying about what they said again. As far as the role of women is concerned, not only in politics but also in life in general, the government's priority is to give all respect and support to Hungarian women, such as the labour market. This is why unemployment among women has fallen by a third in recent years. In your time it was 10 percent, now 3.3 percent. A woman raising a child in Hungary receives much more support than during your governance. Every woman raising a child can count on this support, whether she raises her child alone or in a large family, everyone can count on it. Penalty for domestic violence has been tightened. This also means and expresses the support. As for the pre-election act. I believe you don't want to talk about it here in this House, but the last few days have clearly shown what you can expect. The forum in Debrecen has also shown it clearly. There was a citizen who, let's say, didn't make a secret out of not being a supporter of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and then Ferenc Gyurcsány went there and started threatening him. He said, quote, "Shut your mouth very quickly." Do you understand? That's what's said. [[Gergely Arató: Screaming all over the place, disturbing the event.]] Honourable Congressman, Is this the European style you demand from morning to night? I understand you're bugging your laptop, but I need you to answer that. [[Gergely Harvesto: I can't anymore! The rules of the house...! You didn't dare say that when I could answer it!]] That this would be the European style, that your candidate for Prime Minister, who, by the way, is also the leader of the left, would say to a disagreeable person, how to shut up, do you understand? ! Is this the European style? I am bringing this up, honourable Member, because everything is in this sentence, because it says everything about how they stand with those who imagine the future of Hungary differently from you. He says everything about 15 years or so, the violence of the left hasn't changed, but nothing has changed. That's the attitude, that's the type of threat that turned out to be the eye shots in 2006. This is the attitude that has made Parliament increasingly violent towards those who disagree with themselves. I wish we could tell you that the other left parties aren't like that. But what we see is that James Peter's forum is strangled, Momentum forbids journalists, his president throws smoke grenades at the police, the president of the MSZP threatens to fire civil servants, and compared to that, I have to say that Gergely Christmas is still pursuing a flower policy by simply speaking against constitutional order in Hungary. Regardless of the upcoming election, one thing should be stated so that if you are supposed to act as responsible politicians here in the house of the country, then you tell us that everyone in this country can behave this way, and even more harshly. It's not right. If in sport it is true that violence is not a course, then in public life, politics is twice as true. In 2006, you have already shown what it is like when left-wing violence is coupled with power. I'm sure we won't let them do it again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2021-09-27-16	Now it's time for the group leader of MSZP, Bertalan Tóth. I give you the floor.
u2021-09-27-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán has another message today. This message came from Germany, where the Social Democrats won yesterday. The changes in German policy have a major impact on Europe's future and, of course, are also of great importance for our country, since Berlin is not only our most important trading and economic partner, but also our strategic ally. The result of the election in Germany has demonstrated that the Social Democratic idea is very much alive and developing in Europe. Olaf Scholz can be an experienced, competent, rational and confident chancellor of Germany. The victory of the SPD shows that in Germany, too, more and more voters value people-centredness, social and green aspects, which increase the state's caring role. This message is also about the time passed over Fidesz and Viktor Orbán [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Again?]] But that's not the first sign. Do we remember when Viktor Orbán predicted the victory of Donald Trump with his big breast? He said he was so sure of Trump's victory that he didn't have a plan for B. And this mischievous prophecy has been felt by the country ever since, because the voters of the free world have expelled Viktor Orbán's friend, and today Joe Biden is the President of the United States. Then, not two weeks ago, the left-wing social democrats came to government in Norway, and now all signs point to the fact that Germany's next chancellor will also be a social democrat. These are clear messages that there is an increasing desire for solidarity, justice, equality. But we don't have to look that far: if you look out of the balcony of the Carmelite monastery, you can see the lines in front of the pre-election tents, the masses of Hungarians say these days that they are fed up with Viktor Orbán's corrupt and populist system. It is quite clear that the world and Hungary do not need illiberals, extremist populists. Recent elections and recent German elections say that the future is left-wing and green, and seeing the left-wing and green turn in the world and in Europe, we feel our responsibility. Fidesz will never understand and will never support the human focus of the future social Europe, although the European Union is heading in this direction, this is the future: Hungarian salaries at European level and pensions at European level, even if Fidesz and Viktor Orbán are protesting it hand and foot. The changes now taking place in the world show that the program of the MSZP-Palogue Association is the programme of the future Hungary, with outstanding pensions, more salaries, tax-free minimum wage, strong trade unions, double family allowances, increased amount and time of job search. The world and Europe are heading in this direction, and Hungary will take this train turning left. The left-wing and green turn requires left-wing, green- and social-democratic prime minister; not liberal, not right-wing, but left-wing and social-democrat, a prime minister who thinks the same way as the new leaders of the changing world and represents the working people instead of the multinationals. Gergely Christmas will be such a Prime Minister of Hungary. He's the one who can hold the opposition alliance together because he can reach out to most people. It is Gergely Christmas, who everyone can stand behind regardless of party sympathy, and not least he is the one who is most feared by Viktor Orbán at present. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe and the world have told us what the future will be like. It is time to hear this message and join the team of winners for our future together, Hungary.
u2021-09-27-18	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-09-27-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, The left can't quit trying to win elections from abroad. You spoke of nothing but that you will now have allies abroad, and even if the Hungarian people do not support the role of left-wing government in Hungary, as you would not have liked to have done in 2010, and in 2014 and 2018, but from abroad you will reach it with your foreign allies, political pressure and media pressure. Somehow, he said: "The rest of the world must be left-wing Prime Minister in Hungary. But, honourable Member, the last century has taught us that we have never benefited when we were told from abroad who should be Hungary's minister. We benefited when the Hungarian people were free to decide who would be Prime Minister of Hungary. Why do you want to conduct Hungarian politics from abroad? Why do you seem to expect everyone from Joe Biden to the new German chancellor to intervene in Hungarian internal politics, and try not to go out of their own strength, but only to help you back at foreign political pressure, economic pressure and media pressure, with Ferenc Gyurcsány in the lead, near the power; not trusting the Hungarian people, but trusting foreign pressure. The past 100 to 120 years have taught us that this policy should never be carried. This means that you serve all foreign requests: privatisation request, migration request, LGBT request, everything. Because if you expect foreigners to help you in your own power, you will do everything they ask. You said that there should be left-wing governance in Hungary, honourable Member. We saw that there were several cycles when the left was on the government in Hungary. First of all, in this century, the left gave only billionaires to the Prime Minister in Hungary: Péter Medgyessy multimillionaires-billionaire, Ference Gyurcsány billionaire, Gordon Bajnai billionaire. The left has always put billions in power in Hungary. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Far be it from you...]] And what did you do when you were there? They raised the rent 15 times. Is this a left-wing government, 15-time raise? ! They took a month's pension from people. Is this left-wing government, taking away the pension? They took a month's wages from doctors, nurses, educators. Is this left-wing government, in your opinion, taking a month's wages from those who work for others? Taking a month's wages from social workers, is this the left-wing program you'd like to continue? ! Twelve percent unemployment. What else is there that can really put people who are earning money in a difficult position than when unemployment is huge? What makes people more vulnerable if not if unemployment is huge and employment is record low? And that's what you've achieved: 12 percent unemployment. Was it only around the total collapse at the time of the change of regime about as much or more unemployment as you did when you governed, and you call it left-wing governance, 12 percent unemployment? Is this left-wing governance the country's debt to the IMF? Privatization, that everything was sold, even the Holy Crown has been pawned by left-wing government? When the municipalities were taken close to bankruptcy, they had to help the municipalities out with HUF 1200 billion, this is left-wing government, this is helping the municipalities to get Hungary here after eight years? They chased people into foreign currency loans. [[György Szilágyi: You started it!]] Because they took it away from them! the possibility of interest-supported forint loans from home-building support and forced them into foreign exchange lending. Is this left-wing governance, taking interest rate subsidies from people and families, and putting them at risk of foreign exchange loans instead? ! You announced a five-year tax reduction programme in 2006 and then increased VAT by 5 percent after the elections. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Chemically pure neoliberal...]] Is the VAT increase the left-wing programme, honourable Member? You would have introduced and even introduced a property tax, only the Constitutional Court finally destroyed it. This left-wing program, if someone has an apartment, you're taxing it? You shut down hospitals. Is this the left-wing program to get people to fewer places to go to the hospital? You've taken out 16,000 active hospital beds. [[György Szilágyi: Have you seen a waiting list lately?]] This left-wing program, so that you can treat people on fewer beds, and get in, you can pay a hospital allowance, and you can pay a visitation fee to someone who comes through the door of a clinic? ! This left-wing program, this is what people expect, this western European wind, which will blow on the streets of Budapest, so that everyone who wants to continue studying will pay a visitation fee, hospital daily allowance, and the tuition fee? Is that the left-wing thought, honourable Member? Would it be an expression of respect for women that you're talking about, that the Prime Minister says that everyone wants to replace their old wives and deserves to be replaced? Would left-wing security and the left-wing future be a deterioration in public safety? Would it be a democracy to divide people in the streets of Budapest with tear gas, rubber bullets and horse-riding attacks who commemorate the heroes of our revolution in 56 completely peacefully? Would the left-wing path be to raise textbook prices by 70 percent during their administration and privatise even the National Book Publisher, honourable Member? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And it could continue for a long time, with subway four, a valley bridge and a fall speech. We don't want this left! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-20	Now it's James Peter's turn.
u2021-09-27-21	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! Soon the Hungarians will make a decision, and they will decide who will be the challenger of Viktor Orbán next year. [[Csaba Dömötör: Uh!]] I know one thing for sure as a history teacher: this country has always evolved from one to two when it was led by people who were able to sacrifice for this country. [[13.50]] You're not like that. You are not making sacrifices for the people, you are looking for sacrifices from the people, workers, pensioners, young people, those who have already sacrificed the best of their money to you, whether you want it or not. There is no other country where pensions are raised by 3 percent, wages increase by 3 percent, but otherwise the forint is weakened by 5 percent! There is no other country where more than half the men die before they retire! There isn't another country where they're pulling as much tax off the job as we do! And then I didn't tell you about the money that you don't deduct, but you steal from the Hungarians, for example, when we somehow cost four times as much a kilometer of highway as in Croatia. But I remember that there was one of you, a fidesz MP, who became famous for wanting to pocket not 20 percent of the EU money and 30 percent of it, but 90 percent of it. He would have left ten percent of the change to the people, and the rest he wanted to put in his pockets. You literally want to take everything away from the Hungarian people, take away their money, their future, their health, their lives. What's more, when they're listening to our phones, it's amazing! Then they'll break into a place where they have absolutely no business being in our private lives. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] And I'm telling you to get out of there. Get out of our private lives and get out of public life, those who never give, always lose. Okay, you're right, let's be fair, something you don't even touch, the 28 500 minimum pension, let's say, the 12,000 family allowance. They haven't touched it in 13 years so it won't rise. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We've been steering for 13 years? I didn't know!]] You have made this country a poor house in Europe and you have made yourself a billionaire. They sacrificed the nation on the altar of their own enrichment. Well, the guy who does that, he's dead to me. There's no mercy, no misconception, no forgiveness, just hard accounting. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Strangle hold!]] This will be and I am now telling my opposition colleagues about the credibility test of the new government. Because it takes money for a lot of things, but in order to get the cuffs in the hands of the guilty, it doesn't need to be a cash register, no EU funding, no Brussels permits, one thing: hard will. We've got it! [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's all there is!]] We oppositionists have made the sacrifice for this country. We made the sacrifice when we were able to compromise, and we were able to allow it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You have surrendered to Gyurcsány!]] We were able, if necessary, to take one step back so that the nation could make two steps forward. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You turned your back!]] We opposition are ready! We are ready to defeat you, we are ready to break down your system, and then we are ready to build Hungary of freedom and prosperity, a country where it is not the one who bends deeper, but the one who performs better; a country where it is up to you what you do in life, and the state will support you in achieving your goals and not hinder you. We need a new government. A new government, which is for you and not against you; which does not listen, but listen; which does not support eviction, but supports housing; does not believe in Eastern migrant workers, but believes in Western wages; does not destroy health care but improve; does not beat up education, but modernise it. We need a new government, which doesn't turn east, doesn't shut itself away from the West, but catches up with it in wages and pensions. And, of course, I could make huge promises here, as the Prime Minister has been doing for 30 years, but I don't want to continue with the politics of the last 30 years, I want to put an end to this 30 years, and I want to open a clean slate in the history of this country. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Strangle hold!]] So I promise just as much as I can for sure, and I know for sure that 30 years of dirt here won't be fixed in 30 days. I know for a fact that it's gonna be hard to rebuild this country from its ruins. But I also know for sure that if the goal is good and the direction is good; if the captain is disciplined and not afraid to handcuff the sinners, if he is able to stand up for the unity of the nation while preserving the diversity of the nation, if he is able to represent the interests of workers, pensioners, young people hard enough, then after 30 years of miscarriage, this nation will no longer be lost, but will go through its own path, and we will achieve what we were promised 30 years ago, freedom and prosperity. Every day, every week, we will be closer to Western wages, decent pensions, quality care, modern education, decent housing, European life. That's what I can promise you responsiblely, because that's what I can respect responsibly. With me, we will change not only the government, but also the system. So help me God. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-27-22	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-09-27-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, The fact that Jobbik can be taken seriously as a possible governing force is a good indicator of the upswing of their candidate in Ozd. If you hadn't been fully united, if you hadn't merged, the left parties, who had previously protested against such acts in a crowded line, would have withdrawn this candidate long ago, and you stood by him. We are patiently listening to the speeches that others are certainly asking of you, but every time we listen to them, we simply cannot take them seriously, and there are two main reasons for this. One is that the basic facts do not match, and the other is that if he considered the Hungarians' livelihood to be a little bit, a little bit of a pussy, he wouldn't have joined forces with the dungeons. You're referring to the workers and the workers. I am not telling you this now, because you know very well that real wages have increased by 13 percent in Hungary during the governance of your new bosses; by 13 percent, under current governance, 70 percent. The then economic crisis management has brought this country a 7 percent shrink, and this year we have a chance of up to 7 percent economic growth, i.e. plus. If it were really important for you to create jobs and protect jobs, you would not ignore that this government has doubled unemployment. This means that unemployment in your narrowest country, Borsod, has fallen from 17 percent to 5 percent. 17 to 5! [[Péter Jakab: Only 5 percent should be reached...]] He also mentioned young people. This is the government that will grant Hungarian young people tax exemptions in 25 years. Please ask your new allies what the tax rate was during the left-wing government. Up to 36 percent. I see you're going to have to take part in this thing called the left-wing primary. You should also be involved in the debates. We are among ourselves, we can see that you have been given an episode role, which can also be seen by the fact that you do not make a single sound when you talk about plans that are anti-job and hinder wage growth. For example, when they talk about raising corporate tax and looking at me in vain, because they also submitted a budget changer to do so [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Multik's servant protects the multinationals!]] So, when I'm raising corporate tax, why don't you object? When you want a higher income tax rate, why don't you object? When you're attacking the family tax relief system, why don't you object? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We do not attack! Peter James: You watched a different show!]] The common thing is that if they were implemented by the left, it would not be a higher wage, but a much, much lower wage. Why? To give it to people who don't want to make a living in this country. But I'm going to ask you again, why don't you object at a time like this? And in fact, that question is poetic, and the reason you don't object is because you don't have the chance. The Jobbik and you have personally lost the ability to make your own decisions. He didn't lose it, he voluntarily gave it to those against whom Jobbik was formed, the post-communists. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Say it for yourselves, not for us.]] Ference Gyurcsány was asked on a radio show a few days ago about what he thought you said a few months ago that you weren't going on a list with him. Ferenc Gyurcsány replied: Well, then he came. That's what he said, so shabby, with all the calmness of the boss-manship relationship. You've come a very long way with the Jobbik, and not so long ago you've demanded that eye-shooters be punished. That's what the people around you demanded. Not long ago, you demanded that Ferenc Gyurcsány be banned from Miskolc. Even a few months ago, you were talking about how hard it was to sit down and talk to thieves. And then what happened? He signed them. What you signed, they became one of the most active departments! And that's so true, even in Miskolc, ladies and gentlemen of Congress. The DK candidate must be supported by Peter James. [[Peter James: You're scared, aren't you?]] You will go to Miskolc and vote in favour of the DK candidate. So you go there and you vote for the Gyurcsány party. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Obligation!]] What's the conclusion? Even in his own city, he must support Ferenc Gyurcsány. Isn't that a little embarrassing? [[Peter James: You are so stupid!]] Isn't that embarrassing? [[James Peter: It's embarrassing to have such a man sitting in this chair!]] I'd like to ask you one thing when you're able to reach the number one place in this thing called the primary, and when it's clear to everyone that the left has melted it. [[James Peter: What is a thing? Speak more carefully from that chair. Um...]] He shredded and used Jobbik, so what would you say to his former supporters? In some ways, I understand that you're traveling the country with bodyguards, but in any case you've stepped on a road, and there's no turning back on that. Thank you for listening. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: court fool! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-24	Next up is KDNP's group leader, István Simicskó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-09-27-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This year's record has been set for the number of migrants caught at our southern borders. [[14.00]] Only until Sunday last weekend, 1314 migrants have been attacked by our police and soldiers at our southern borders. This year's number of illegal migrants has reached 80,000. Ladies and gentlemen, In the same way, actions against smugglers have increased, as the number of smugglers caught has reached 780. These are shocking figures, and even then we cannot see the full impact and consequences of the withdrawal from Afghanistan. These figures are eeriely similar to the pre-2015 period. We remember that more than 400 thousand migrants marched through Hungary, and we needed to build the fence, and we did it; this is to protect not only Hungary, the Hungarian people, but Europe as a whole to this day. Ladies and gentlemen, We don't want this condition to happen again. Obviously, the fence and border surveillance, border protection, allow the Hungarian people to remain safe, but it is certain that the migratory pressure is increasing at our southern borders. The numbers clearly indicate that. If there had been no border fence, it would have been wrong to think about it, because millions of migrants would have been able to reach the heart of Europe in recent years. There is an old saying, an old sage saying, a folk saying, and this is how it is said that the good neighbour is made by a good fence, obviously where this neighbourhood stands, we wouldn't be here if Serbia had already been admitted to the European Union and we could have built this security border fence as far south as possible. We can also see the weak points. Let me mention three, fellow Members. Brussels's attitude is that we see a lack of defence will, and they have not learned from the failures and problems of recent years. The spiritual decline and crisis of our Western civilisation; we can see Europe becoming increasingly detached from its roots. The Hungarian left is also a weak point, my fellow Members, because they have been slowing down the building of the fence, and they have not supported all this. As far as the Brussels attitude is concerned, we remember when exactly Angela Merkel said that anyone who cries must be accepted immediately. After that, almost all migrants claimed to be Syrians. Now, most likely, everyone will claim to be Afghan in order to gain a free way into the heart of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, We know what migration means. There is also a definition of this: a lifestyle relocation of people from their country of birth or former residence to another country, where appropriate to the European Union, but it means population movement, immigration. We saw it in 2015 and we have seen it well in recent years, and we have also seen that millions of people with completely different roots, other civilizations, other cultures and other denominations have entered the European Union illegally, without control. Hungary, the Hungarian Government, was the first of my honourable fellow Members to draw attention to the danger of this and signalled the problem in countless forums. The increase in terrorism, the increase in the number of acts of terrorism, the formation of no-go zones and the dangers thereof, the violence against women, the violence against ecclesiastical persons, the clergy, to say the least, have also been committed, so we can see the real risk of this. Unfortunately, the Hungarian left has been attacking the construction of the fence from the very beginning and demanding its demolition. Migration has been called a fake problem, and some have even taken it to the point that only Fidesz-KDNP invented migration, and there has been such a statement from left-wing politicians. Last time I had the pleasure of watching a part of the Gyurcsány show in the form of a stand-up comedy show on a forum in Sárbugárd, where Ferenc Gyurcsány explained that migration is being watched with reservation, because they see that Hungarian people do not support it, so they take a stand. But he went on to do that, because he finally said with Gergely Christmas that they were not campaigning because they are still on the side of immigration, they are on the side of immigration, but they cannot win the election. The position of the KDNP is as follows: migration must be stopped, and help must be brought to where the problem arises, not to bring it into Europe. We will continue to support the government in this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-27-26	Szilárd Németh, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2021-09-27-27	Dear Parliament, I could also say that it is a respected Fidesz-KDNP fraction, because I could count on one hand the number of opposition representatives left in the Chamber for the two comments before the last agenda, which is actually about reality. 'Cause what have we been listening to? Practically self-image, the breeding of the Gyurcsány show, the doing of their own business and the very despicable abuse of the government and the governing parties. From this, we could roughly sum up the essence of the few comments that were made here today from the left. Thank you very much to Mr István Simicskó, former Minister of Defence, who personally participated in the tasks that, after 2015, the Parliament and the government decided to do along the border to highlight this important issue. He gave me very talkative data, but I'd also like to give you an relationship number. Last year, the Hungarian border guards, the soldiers and the police had to take action against 46,000 migrants. This year, what we've heard has now passed 80 grand by the end of September, and nearly 800 smugglers have been caught. Last year, this number was 285. It's constantly rising, we get bigger numbers in the statistics every week. The fact that there are no conditions in Hungary today that have been referred to by Mr. Group leader to the run-through of 400 thousand migrants in 2015, the occupation of motorways, the insurmountability of farms, the occupation of public parks in cities, the way they have travelled on the train; I think everyone remembers this horror, only because we do not have to experience it now, in 2021, and for the future, as you have mentioned in Afghanistan, these numbers will certainly increase, well that we do not have to experience it, it is only our decisions, only thanks to the decisions of the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary group and the Hungarian government led by Viktor Orbán, which, let us say frankly, we made very easily. I could easily put this in a quotation mark, but since we have consulted people in national consultation and referendums, people have confirmed precisely the position in all three cases, which was about protecting the country, fulfilling our Schengen obligation, and thus protecting Europe from the mass of migrants arriving here at our borders. We have made the decisions that have resulted in the technical and legal border closure being built and completed. We have introduced very strong migration laws, we have built the fence, and the crisis caused by mass immigration has been maintained for years, so it is not only at the fence that migrants can be captured, but in any area of the country, and there are also a number of examples. For example, illegal migrants have been caught several times in the free port in Csepel. I think it's pretty deep in the country. There is another emergency: not only would they return to power here in 2022 to break down the fence, not only to meet Brussels' mandatory quota requests, to flood the country with migrants, but also to virtually all of our measures to support family support and pensioners' livelihoods, to rebuild the 13th month pension, pension premium, pension supplement, to provide family support benefits, to refund the tax on children's children to be introduced next year, they should eliminate them with one single pen withdrawal, because they do not regard Hungarian children and families with Hungarian children as the most important thing in this country, but also migrants, and they need to be given housing, support, free money. This would be taken away from the people, so it is a huge risk that if the Hungarian Hungarian left, although with Christmas, brought back the entire Gyurcsány era, would be a huge loss. Let's not let the left one come back. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.10]]
u2021-09-27-28	It's time for Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry, on behalf of Fidesz. I give you the floor.
u2021-09-27-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the speeches before the agenda, especially those made by the leaders of the opposition factions, I am actually reminded of the one popular wisdom that the test of pudding is eating, and I apologize, but the left-wing pudding has already been tried by the Hungarian people and does not want it. Seriously, in the context of the crisis, it is true that the real power and capacity of a country, a community, is not really shown by the times of peace, but by the crises, and, on the basis of this crisis, Hungary is a successful country today. He managed the crisis successfully, and we trust that the momentum that the Hungarian economy took in 2021 will remain with us in the near future. It is estimated that we can achieve an increase of between 7 and 7.5 percent in 2021, and this is mainly due to the economic policy measures that the government has taken over the past period. We can be one of the few European countries that have achieved their pre-crisis performance. The re-launch of the economy is also well reflected in the picture of the labour market, there have never been so many people working in Hungary, 4.7 million employees can be counted. Unemployment is also one of the lowest, about 4 percent. It cannot be stressed enough that this is essentially due to the fact that we have always believed in knowledge- and work-based crisis management, not aid-based. We must now fight in the autumn of 2021 so that we can rebuild more quickly everything that was previously taken, the 13th month pension, and not only that, according to previous plans, the second week, but also that the third week, possibly the fourth week surplus, will be available to Hungarian pensioners. The big difference here may be that we do not want to raise a pension on return, not on credit, as they did before, but that we want performance, the performance of the Hungarian economy, and that we have to work to stand before the people in the next elections, so that what the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government has taken away from pensioners, we will give it back. By the way, fortunately, Hungarian people can express their views in the context of the national consultation, and the simple question of what they think of minimum wage is very clearly more than 90 percent said that they do support the government's plan to return to 200,000 forints or raise the minimum wage. It may well describe the difference compared to the left-wing leadership, that the minimum wage in Hungary will be as much as the average wage under the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány in January 2022. Here it is important to mention that the minimum wage alone is almost three times as much as in the last year of left-wing governance. Restarting the economy goes beyond expectations, there is a strong chance of growth this year above 5.5 percent, and so we really need to think about what to do with the surplus that the performance of the economy offers. Of course, it seems the most fair thing to do is to give back the money paid back to those who produced it, to families raising children and to small businesses. Any parent with a child who is entitled to a family allowance will benefit from the government's planned compensation, and it is important that if both parents have declared jobs in the family, they will, of course, be entitled to personal income tax. The tax refund can also be granted to entrepreneurs if they have children, so that the range of beneficiaries can be increased by self-employed persons, farmers, real estate renters, Katás and Ekhós taxpayers. Katács, who raises children, can therefore get back a quarter of their 2021 tax. Of course, the condition of the family tax refund is that the growth of the Hungarian economy will reach this target of 5.5 percent this year. According to the current calculations, we have every chance of doing so, so this could mean that 1 million 900 thousand parents will be entitled to about 600 billion forints. This is the biggest family tax relief ever. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hungary is stronger today than before the crisis, the Hungarian community is stronger today than before the crisis. That's what we're gonna work for. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-30	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2021-09-27-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to quote a statement from Friday night. This was published by Moody, one of the world's largest credit rating agencies from Hungary. Out of the three large credit rating agencies, Moody has improved Baa's rating to Baa2 during its up-to-date review, and has thus declared the country's outlook stable. With this, Hungary's debt rating has reached one level with all three credit rating agencies, i.e. recommending all three credit rating Hungarys to invest. But to what do we owe this? The rating is due to the economic resilience and the resulting positive growth prospects, based on the government's growth-friendly economic policy. Given the uncertainty of the global economic environment that has been adapted by the corona virus epidemic, it is important that, in the midst of the crisis, it has considered the performance, stability and crisis management strategy of our credit rating country to be quite strong. Honourable Members, This is not said by the opposition, not even by the pro-government, but by an independent credit rating agency, who has been very strict with the performance of Hungary. But if we keep looking at their analysis, it turns out that the Hungarian economy in Europe has done one of the best, for example saying that during the crisis, GDP has fallen less than the average of the European Union. At the same time, Hungary was among the top five with the reboot. They say that the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian budget, is on the right track. I think that this is a very serious recognition of the government's work over the last few months and years. But to what do we owe this? It is due to the fact that the government has said in times of crisis that job protection is the most important thing; it is the protection of jobs. Workers should also be tied to their jobs at a difficult time when they do not have enough work to work in eight hours. What did the left say? The left said: no, we have to give them aid, we have to increase the amount of aid three times, and the amount of aid has to be increased, and if this is done, we will be dealing with a crisis well. Here's the proof: Moody's credit rating agency has stated that this is not the way, but that parts of the economy, economic enterprises and their employees must focus on performance. The other thinking, which is characterized by the government, is the promotion of investment; the promotion of investment, the promotion of investment. When it was the biggest crisis and the biggest problem, we also told them to come, come to Hungary, create jobs or strengthen jobs. Of course, EU funds have also been used for this, and the Hungarian budget has also given significant support to it. The following government's fundamental economic idea is tax reduction. The tax reduction, as it is used to attract foreign capital, is a way of strengthening domestic businesses. [[14.20]] This is how we can increase the income of workers, and, well, Moody said that Hungary is also thinking well on this issue, and not only thinks well, but also executes it well, since Hungary's tax revenue is significantly more than it has been in the past and is growing significantly. And the fourth item is support for families. Support for families in Hungary is now recognized throughout the world. In order to support families, this is the way to think economically [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As I have said, and so will be the income for families to have a good time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-27-32	Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-09-27-33	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: János Bencsik, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Anett Bősz, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; László Hajdu, Ádám DK and Steinmetz, Jobbik. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Sándor Burány, Dialogue; Antal Csárdi, LMP; Zoltán Varga, DK; László Varga, MSZP; Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik; Imre Vejkey, KDNP and Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik and Andrea Varga-Damm, independent.
u2021-09-27-34	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy 22 September 2021 B.146/2021/4. I'm calling from the Egri District Court on a private charge of defamation. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted a proposal for a decision on this matter, so the agenda proposes that immunity be suspended on this day. In addition, I would like to inform you that another motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy was received on 22 September 2021 8.Bpk.649/2021/4/I. Pécs District Court on a private charge of defamation. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The DK Group recommended that the Plenary Session of 27 September 2021 should not be held with regard to the T/17053 amending Act I of 2021 on the control of the Crown Virus pandemic. Proposal for a regulation for the debate and final vote on the Commission's reports. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of Parliament did not support the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, I declare that at this meeting the Parliament will not discuss the disciplinary action of the dialogue representative Szabó Timea, which will take place at our next meeting. Dear House, Now, at 2:24 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quietly and quickly if they have somewhere else to do. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber. It's a lot of noise.]] Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. Congressman's got the floor.
u2021-09-27-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We were pleased to hear about the Government Resolution 1546/2021 issued in August. According to the resolution, the government will implement the renovation of the Marcal hospital's castle and a change of function. The investment and the acquisition of assets were decided to provide billions of HUF. They also decided that, on 1 January 2022, the hospital in Marcali would become an independent budgetary institution without an economic organisation. In this regard, allow me to ask you the question of tens of thousands of Somogy citizens, questions of all those who are being provided with health care at the hospital in Marcal. So, I respectfully ask, Mr. Secretary, in what area can a hospital without an economic organization be independent? Who will be head of the Marcal hospital, and on what issues can you decide on your own? What decision-making powers will remain in Kaposvár? And in addition to clarifying the legal situation of the institution, do people expect an answer to improve the quality of care thanks to the billions of dollars of development? Is there going to be another obstetric gynecologist? Will you be back in Pediatrics? Will there be money for new doctors? Will there be money to raise humiliatingly low nursing wages? The waiting lists in Marcali will be reduced, Mr. Secretary: yes or no? I go on: what will the change of function of the castle building mean in practice? Where do you intend to place the patients who are provided there? What parts of the building are they gonna tear down? When will the investment take place? We do not see a specific deadline in the Government decision. And from the billions of forints, what new medical-diagnostic tools can be expected? Will you get about HUF 95 million from this for the purchase of the CT equipment promised by Attila Móring József seven years ago, as well as for the construction of the rescue helicopter landing track, yes or no? Or at least bring back the instruments you took to Kaposvár? Finally, I respectfully ask you to stop deceiving us about the hospital in Marcal. Dear Secretary of State, These questions, which I have just said to you, have been submitted in writing 12 days ago, so we are now waiting for an honorable and comprehensive response to all these questions. Thank you for listening.
u2021-09-27-36	Secretary Bence Rétvári responds, please.
u2021-09-27-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it would be worth asking Imré László on the left, who is the health politician of the left on behalf of Ferenc Gyurcsány and said that 45 percent of hospitals should be closed in order to close the hospital in Marcal, yes or no. Nearly every other hospital would be closed on the left. We are talking about a hospital where we are talking about improvements, we are talking about autonomy, but there is a huge threat to the hospital in Marcala if the left comes to power, and if the plan of Ferenc Gyurcsány's politician, Imre László, is implemented, and 45 percent of the Hungarian hospitals are closed. Just because the first hospitals were closed at the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány, here in Budapest, we can remember: Schöpf-Merei Hospital, Buda Children's Hospital, OPNI and others. That's what they'd be doing now, and Marcali could be the victim of this. However, I thank you for supporting our fellow Member, József Attila Móring's initiative on the independence of the hospital in Marcal, on the launch of improvements, and on its operation as an independent budgetary institution. And, as you said, there's a government decree here, and obviously, if there was no coronal virus epidemic, there would have been a faster deadline. Unfortunately, the epidemic pushed out all the reorganisations, since it was a more important task for all hospitals, so this date was delayed, but nevertheless, thanks to everyone involved in the preparation of independence. [[14.30]] What's his legal status gonna be? Mr President, you know that there has been a new statute law, which has somewhat reorganized the operation of hospitals. County hospitals have greater professional control of urban hospitals, urban clinics and primary care, i.e. towards general practitioners. This is a somewhat different type of care management, and the Marcal hospital will be as independent decision-making as any other hospital in Hungary from 1 January, and will be as under the professional management of the county hospital as any other hospital in the city. Its operation, management, election of its leaders, decision-making powers will be governed by the statutes and the organisational and operational regulations. As you said, the Government decision of 1546/2021 was issued on 4 August this year, which has already allocated HUF 45 million for investment preparation, for asset acquisition, IT development, and for development in the framework of the investment more than HUF 2.6 billion. As far as wage increases are concerned, honourable Member, in the case of the workers there is a 72-percent wage increase in these four years, and in the case of doctors we can talk more than double, because a doctor who has not yet earned 538 thousand forints a few years ago is now earning a gross HUF 1.2 million, and in 2023 he will earn HUF 1 million 794 thousand for his gross basic salary. So we tried to provide both doctors and nurses with the material appreciation that is closer to the work they do. In 2012, the Marcal Hospital received HUF 15 million in support of asset acquisition, liquidity improvement, for the renovation of air conditioning, air handling equipment, cooling systems, 16 million forints for roof renovation in 2016 and much more, and I would not describe them individually, only that, overall, HUF 677 million for development resources have come in order to make the health situation of people living in Marcali and the surrounding area even more secure. But most importantly, the most important thing for you is that Imre László also expects the hospital in Marcal to account for 45 percent of what he would shut down in the case of a left-wing government. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-38	In return, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Steinmetz.
u2021-09-27-39	Mr Secretary of State, I was hoping that you could answer the questions that have been raised in four minutes, but unfortunately, it has only been partially successful, and unfortunately, this is the many times that you do not admit to the hospital in Marcal. However, we hope that the change of function will not mean a downsizing, such as in the case of Tapolca Hospital. Therefore, I cannot accept your reply. However, I am pleased that after thousands of proud Somogy citizens have signed an initiative on the development of the Marcal hospital, you have finally seen the need to act. Our request now is to not simply pour billions of taxpayers into concrete, because people need doctors, respected nurses, and, above all, to be cured in Marcali in the future. I would like to make it clear that this will be the priority for the new government. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-27-40	If I understand the congressman correctly, he did not accept the answer. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz: I said I wouldn't accept it.]] In accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will be taken on our meeting today for each interpellation. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I give you the floor.
u2021-09-27-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, In my speech before the agenda last week, I dealt with the same subject, and Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, answered my questions, or at least tried to answer them. I would like to start today with the same thing: the price of wood has increased by 160 percent in Hungary according to a survey, the price of petrol on a new historic peak, the price of gas oil is further increased, . In one year, the cost of obtaining a license has increased by 10 percent,., inflation is rising again so that some headlines from the past few weeks are less and less likely to be covered with the crown. But I would also like to add a fresh one today: the price of gas is rising to record height, but gasoline will be more expensive. The price of gas oil will rise by 9 HUF this week, reaching 470 HUF, and the petrol will reach 459 HUF. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, told me that I talked about everything but how pensions and incomes developed in Hungary. What's left out of my schedule, I'd like to tell you now. Meanwhile, what does the government do about high inflation? During the emergency, more has been spent on unrelated targets, including stadium building and maintenance, government prestige investments, support for churches, and real action against the epidemic. Think of the biggest investments: Paks II, Budapest-Belgrád railway, city-ligeti giga investment, the creation of the Budapest Castle government buildings, the foundation of the Fudan University's base in Budapest, and the huge subsidies for private foundations created by the government, but let us not forget the 70 billion hunting exhibition. Without it, the Hungarian man really couldn't live. The government is talking about rebooting, but what kind of reboot would it be for those whose salaries, pensions, social benefits are being taken away from brutal price increases and inflation? In addition, less than a quarter of the unemployed receive job-seeking support for up to three months. Almost half of the unemployed, 45.3 percent of the unemployed in the European Union, are inaccessible in Hungary, almost half of the people in unemployment. I've been telling you this for so many times, because it's the important things for people. Family allowances under subjective rights have remained unchanged: family allowance, child benefit, maternity allowance, and even baby bond introduced 14 years ago. Mr. Secretary. What does the government do to ensure that inflation does not absorb wages, pensions, social assistance? What are they doing to keep the standard of living from deteriorating in the country? I hope you can give me an answer now. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-27-42	Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have already mentioned in my speech before the agenda, and I will tell you that the country, Hungary, was designated on Friday. Moody's credit rating is the largest or perhaps the largest in the world, and he said that things are moving in the right direction in Hungary and the prospects are good. Now you're saying there's a deteriorating standard of living. Do you think that an independent organisation, if there was a deteriorating standard of living in Hungary and people's living conditions were deteriorating, would have said that it would be recommended for investment and classified as the following category? I can't believe what you're saying. You take out an example that is positive in opposition, left-wing terms, because inflation is not happening in Hungary as we would like, but inflation is not lost, and inflation does not, by the way, undermine the standard of living. It does not undermine the standard of living because, since Fidesz has been ruling, both in terms of pensions and in terms of income, real incomes are increasing from 2013 onwards and, you know, it is necessary to compare prices, price increases with incomes, and those who have no income, obviously with state benefits and pensions. You have failed to fight this fight when you were on the government, because the value of pensions has also decreased and the value of income has also decreased. Fidesz, on the other hand, has been able to win this fight every year since he's been ruling, and not the prices have won, but the incomes have won. You can say anything that's what it costs now, that's what it costs. The price of a product is true that it has become incomprehensiblely high, but overall, when you look at how people live, you see that they have more cars, they buy more. See if every department store's parking lot is full of cars, which means they're shopping. But I could say to you that the economy as a whole, while you are talking about inflation, is still one of GDP growth, where we are, by the way, one of the first at international level and even in the European Union. [[14.40]] From the growth of investment, where we are the first at international level. From employment, unemployment, where it can be said that I am not saying it, but from Moody's credit rating, that unemployment caused by the crisis in Hungary was lower than in Europe. Or we can talk about debt, which has decreased significantly over the past period, and this trend will obviously continue. Yes, the stadiums are always good examples, but I ask you, when at the European Championship 60,000 people sat in the stadium and cheered the Hungarians against the French, and in front of the TV screens millions, you weren't proud when Fiola of the Hungarian National Team scored the goal for France, weren't you crazy or your family, if you couldn't do it? Yes, we can rejoice together without politics if the Hungarian team wins, then we come to Parliament and you start scolding stadium construction. Madam Member, your thoughts and sentences are not always in place. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-27-44	I'll give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2021-09-27-45	Of course, I don't accept the answer. You know, Secretary of State, to argue that shopping mall parking lots are full of cars, and it's already necessary to expand and build a parking lot, you told me that last week, it's extremely cynical, especially if you draw that conclusion from this. [[András Tállai: But it's true!]] that Hungarian families live better. I do not know, Mr Secretary of State, read the statistics found on the website of the HCSO that poverty has increased dramatically in two segments in Hungary: among workers and among pensioners. Poverty has grown dramatically over the last ten years. You know, Mr. Secretary, if it's not enough for you that the price of gasoline... There were times when he intervened here and there, say, around Mezőkövesd, in his own constituency, when I didn't like the price of petrol rising overnight. You don't care about that at some point, but at some point they were able to fight it, it is now at record heights, the price is rising from week to week, and you don't care at all, but neither do you care about what the Hungarian people do for a living.
u2021-09-27-46	The congresswoman did not accept the answer. We now have Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, who has submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the families. I give you the floor.
u2021-09-27-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, A year and a half ago, the Prime Minister promised the completion of full nursery care to eradicate poverty by 2022. This is hardly possible, although you may have magic wands to replace tens of thousands of missing places. In 2019 they wanted to create 10,000 seats, of which 1506 were realized. In 2020 and 21 they wanted to transfer an additional 5000 and 6,000 seats, so that our country could reach 70,000 seats next year. Between 2017 and 2020, however, only 3,400 crèches were created, which led to the fact that only one in six children under the age of three had access to daycare last year. Nearly 60,000 children were unable to receive day care locally, and according to Eurostat data for 2019, 88,000 people in our country are forced to stay at home due to a lack of nursery space and are excluded from the labour market. This mainly affects young mothers, not only in the national economy, but also in the social sense. Women's equal opportunities in our country are seriously damaged anyway, given their chances of working in the labour market, childbearing can lead to a loss of dignity in several areas of a woman's life, and only one aspect of this is the wage labour market. These data alone are a cause for concern, but compared with the fact that more than 181 thousand children's parents pay a nursery care fee, it is even more disappointing. This means that a fraction of the total number of children can benefit from public services by receiving free day care close to their place of residence while their parents work. Cradle space shortages are mostly absorbed by households and families. This lack of care is just as low as the fee for home care workers or the lack of a uniform obstetrical protocol. It all means that the dignity of mothers is severely damaged, and somehow they try to survive. This is the Hungary that the current Hungarian government created, and that people here often only survive, but they cannot live. The lack of shelter in crèches is mostly corrected by families at the cost of damage to the dignity and rights of mothers, but due to the lack of nursery space, municipalities are already desperate to move towards neighbouring settlements, as it is mandatory to go to kindergarten. Only 150 children are forced to apply every year to children in kindergartens, but the situation in the dynamically growing settlements of the agglomeration is equally bad. I'm asking you, Secretary of State, why the government hasn't created enough nursery and kindergarten space. Thank you.
u2021-09-27-48	Mr. Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, will answer. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your recent comment also proves that you are trying to mislead the Hungarian people with false news and hundreds of tricks. Let's take a look at the reality of your false claims. Madam President, on the one hand, she made negative comments on nursery and kindergarten seats. First of all, it should be noted that the provision of nursery and kindergarten care is the responsibility of the municipalities, while the state has been supporting kindergarten and crèches since 2012. The reality, contrary to what the congresswoman said, is that in recent years we have spent some 170 billion forints on nursery development from domestic and EU sources, the results of which are already felt. Currently there are more than two and a half times as many settlements as in 2010, the number of crèches increased by 67 percent during the same period, and thanks to the improvements, this number will continue to increase, making this service available to families with small children more and more settlements. Let me make a brief comment here. As I understand it, you'd like to run for congress in the 1st Constituencies of Pest County. I would like to inform you that a number of kindergartens and nurserys have been renewed in this constituency, including Érden, in recent years. I would like to point out to the Member that, according to statistics, in the 2019-2020 educational year in the district of Érd, the training of 4425 kindergarten children was carried out in 5053 kindergarten places. So there are enough preschool seats against your claim, quantifying 628 kindergarten seats more than the number of children with preschool rights. Many kindergartens and kindergartens could have been renewed in the future if that was what the mayor of Érd wanted. The previous pro-government leadership left winning kindergarten and daycare contests for the new city leadership, which they did not want very much to implement. We hear they'd rather pay back the money they won than work for the families of Érd. If you look at it from here, it's a very interesting comment. On the other hand, she also misses the appreciation of women. Contrary to your claim, the government's priority is to give women the respect and respect they deserve in the labour market as well. We've launched the job security operation and introduced the ged extra. At the birth of the third child, mothers are exempted from paying full student loans, and mothers with four and more children are exempt from paying for the rest of their lives. Child-care development, the introduction of grandparents' children, and the expansion of part-time employment by child's age also help mothers with small children return to the labour market. As a result, women's unemployment has fallen by a third compared to 2010. That's the truth about what you told me. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We all remember what it is like when your boss Ferenc Gyurcsány governs the country, and the majority of Hungarians thank you, but do not ask for any of this, because at the time the preferential home creation system was abolished, the duration of the child was reduced, the tax relief of families with children was cut and the children were put in a difficult situation. On the other hand, we have been working since 2010 to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children. Since 2010, we have increased support for families by two and a half times, and we are working for families in the coming period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-27-50	I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the Secretary of State's reply.
u2021-09-27-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer. But how well the previous city administration performed in the kindergarten competition, nothing shows better than the current prosecution of former deputy mayor István Bács. [[14.50]] I would like to add so much more to what kind of daycare programs are like: the daycare program for Pest County, since the Democrats took over the city in October 2019, it has been written that the city of Érd has the right of county, except for the city of Érd. So this is what your kindergarten creation programme looks like, Mr. Secretary of State, this is what the alleged kindergarten and nursery development programme looks like, and this is what the success of the previous city administration in kindergarten and nursery building looks like. And let me draw your attention to the fact that we have over two thousand settlements where there is still absolutely no nursery care. That's what I was talking about, and I was talking about the fact that Érden has to reject 150 children every year. Thank you.
u2021-09-27-52	Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I give you the floor.
u2021-09-27-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government has declared its intention to raise the gross minimum wage to HUF 200,000. Not only do we welcome, but we also demand, but I would also like to add that we have too many instruments at our disposal to increase the minimum wage income. This is the tax exemption of the minimum wage. In principle, this should not be an obstacle, it is obvious that the Fidesz government has also changed its position for some time, which is reflected in the tax exemption for people under the age of 25, which applies to the income part below the average wage, i.e. the personal income tax system has become two-key for young people: 0 and 15 percent. And the same is reflected in the planned tax refund for children's children, which is also valid up to the average wage, i.e. the tax rate for children's children will be two-key: 0 and 15 percent. Behind the two - key system of Fidesz is the realization that it is only fair that people who earn less pay with a smaller key and those who earn more with a bigger key. In other words, low personal income taxation must have a cap, as very high earners can make more contributions to the common. With this principle, the LMP fully agrees, and we propose that, if we have already started on this path, we should go on and make the minimum wage completely personal income tax-free for everyone, not just for a selected social group, but for everyone, because believe me, Mr State Secretary, it is just as difficult to come out of the net minimum wage for a 50-year-old countryman as it is for a 22-year-old. And if we tax-free the minimum wage, it can be seen that these fellow citizens would have significant extra resources, where appropriate, up to 25 percent of the net minimum wage without imposing an extremely high burden on employers. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is when the minimum wage will be tax-free for everyone, or when the multi-key tax will be properly introduced, which is essential in the spirit and name of social justice, and cannot wait any longer. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-27-54	Mr. András Tállai has the floor again.
u2021-09-27-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The debate continues, the essence of which is that you want a tax increase, and Fidesz has been doing a tax reduction for more than ten years now. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And you'd like it differently, I'd like it differently, because you've finished your interpellation by wanting progressive taxation and when we're going to move on to the multi-key tax system. This obviously means a tax increase. We are pleased that you welcome the increase in the minimum wage, that draft. We agree here. We agree, then, that people should have more income, that it is only the way to it that is different. You want lower incomes to be exempt and higher incomes to be subject to progressive taxation. And we say we need a single-key tax, and based on a single-key tax, we need a general public burden in the country. Equal public burdens, because there's no difference between incomes. If there is less income, there is a public burden, if it is higher, it also has a public burden. Your proposal to exempt a certain income would lead the economy in a very bad direction, as this could result in a lower level of legal wages. So if everyone was tax-free, they'd try to keep legal incomes at the minimum wage. Obviously, this would also pose a threat to the further spread of grey employment. Not to mention that the income in the pocket would reappear untaxed, and the advantage that the minimum wage would legally become tax-free would indeed have such consequences. But we also think differently systematically, because if the minimum wage were tax-free, then the family tax would be lost. Those on minimum wage have a family tax reduction, since you don't think they have a tax, they couldn't use it. But this leads back to the idea that the family tax reduction should be abolished, because that is the essence of this proposal. Family tax relief would lose its significance. Exactly what Fidesz was able to create for the benefit of families, in our opinion, in one of the most effective ways. After all, those who have families and raise children have a common social goal, obviously more, higher burdens, more, higher expenses, and if they work and pay taxes, they will be returned from the state. That's the whole point of this system. Your proposal would clearly upset this system, select a community, a social community, and put them in a better position. By the way, as far as your involvement in tax matters and voting in Parliament is concerned, I can tell you that you have had the opportunity four times to vote for a tax reduction on the government's proposal, and you have not done so once in the past. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-27-56	Once again, Mr. Congressman has the floor.
u2021-09-27-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Whoever wrote this answer for you, I think you should fire him this week because you don't know what a progressive personal income tax system means. And it will show in this House that you do not know. I would like to point out, Mr Secretary of State, that you are in serious contradiction, because when you say that you are seeking uniform public burdens, I can say that the personal income tax system for people under the age of 25 is already two-key, as I have said, it is designed for a 15% and 0 percent key. In addition, LMP has developed a personal income tax system on the tax lifting policy that you say would increase net income tax to everyone by a gross HUF 1 million. So all the nonsense you've said in your answer, I can't accept that. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-27-58	Congressman didn't accept the answer. Sándor Burány, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I give you the floor.
u2021-09-27-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Then let's continue to dissect the issues of the tax system, the personal income tax system. If we look at international comparisons, we will find very shocking numbers in this. We find that if we look at in an international comparison that people who earn less than the average, in particular, let us say 67 percent of the average wage in international comparison, how much tax should be paid, how many countries are ahead, where the tax burden is higher, we see that we are the third in this ranking. [[15.00]] So Hungary is one of the three states where people looking for 67 percent of the average, i.e. lower ones, have a much higher tax burden to bear. If we look at the tax burden of taxpayers earning much higher than the average wage, not 67 percent, but 167 percent, then the picture is quite different. We see that in this ranking we are not the third, but the thirteenth. In other words, the lower earnings we look at in international comparison, the higher the personal income tax burden in Hungary, and the higher the salary we look at in international comparison, the lower the tax burden in Hungary. It's quite clear that the problem is the tax burden on low-income earners. The result of this is, moreover, the 2010 bill in which you, contrary to your promise to reduce taxes, did not reduce but increase taxes for people with below-average incomes, including those who earn minimum wages. In fact, in 2010 the tax on minimum wage earners paying zero percent personal income tax rose to 17 percent in one stroke and still to 15 percent today. This tax increase, which you introduced at the time, the so-called single-key tax system meant that two thirds of the taxpayers at the time did not decrease but increased their taxes. That's the sad truth. In addition, VAT was raised to 27 percent. It is simple to see that the greater the proportion of income that a family has to spend, the higher its consumption relative to its income. In other words, even this VATing, this increase to 27 percent, hit the low earners in the first place. So I ask the Secretary of State when they want to reduce the tax on low-income earners.
u2021-09-27-60	Once again, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, and I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. Here you go. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-09-27-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, To say that the Hungarian tax system, which is one-key and the third lowest tax rate in Europe, is that this tax system is wrong, is difficult to interpret. In particular, it is difficult to interpret it when we look at how, in addition to this tax burden, the income of both minimum wage workers and other income workers will develop in net terms and in real terms. Although the question of the tax rate is important, it is obviously a question of government policy, or of the tax burden, but in its tendency it is necessary to consider that every year people's income is increasing, their consumption is increasing, in Hungarian, in real terms, income is not falling, as in your time. You guys have handled this pretty well. From 2002 to 2010, you were in government positions several times, and the real income was reduced in several years. They were probably satisfied with the tax burden at the time, but people were not satisfied with their own lives. Now, however, all tax burdens and tax burdens can be criticized, of course, that they are high, but if you look at the overall fact that what he lives from is that if he raises a child, this is especially true, but even if he does not raise a child, the overall tax burden has been reduced. I think that is the main aspect. It should also be said that when the minimum wage was significantly increased in order to tax both the low income and the guaranteed minimum wage, they were corrected for employees in both the public sector and private enterprises. So the subsequent wage increases must have happened with the tax burden. I would like to tell you that in 2002 the minimum wage was 50,000 forints, when the government was handed over, then 73 500 forints. When we took over, it was 73,500, and now it's 167,400. That's the point, Congressman. The point is, how much is left in the envelope net. It can be compared with other countries, of course. We can say a richer country where people live better than in Hungary. It's always been like this, and it might be for a while. However, when we look at how incomes, together with tax burdens, we see that the situation has been significantly better in Hungary since 2010. If I were you, I wouldn't bring up the VAT increase, because one of your favorite tax increases has always been the VAT increase. But what is true of you is that of Antal Csárdi: in recent years, since he has been here in Parliament, he has never once voted in favour of a tax reduction proposed by the government. Now, of course, in opposition, when they may not think of anything else, we will obviously propose to the government to reduce taxes. When I was in opposition, I thought about the government cutting taxes. It's okay, anyway, that the tax levels are already low. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-62	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I will ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-63	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't accept it. There's probably something wrong with Mr. Secretary's memory because he doesn't remember my question a few minutes earlier. It was when they wanted to cut the low income tax. He talked about everything but that. I would like to say that I was consistently pro-tax on minimum wage not only in opposition but also in government. When he was a socialist-led government, during the Horn government, during the Medgyessy government, during the Gyurcsány government and during the Bajnai government, at any rate zero percent of the minimum wage was charged, and during all the Orbán governments, this tax was increased by you. That's the problem, Mr. Secretary. That's what you were supposed to account for. And one last thing, if you mentioned real wages: precisely because you raised the minimum wage tax, as a result, the real value of the minimum wage decreased for years after 2010, only sometime in the year of 2015. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-27-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh and János Halász, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, How much migration pressure should we prepare for in the future? It's an address. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2021-09-27-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The largest international event in recent years has been the withdrawal of the United States from Afghanistan. The military superpower gave up the fight against the Taliban and, surprised by its allies, left the country to its fate quickly. Today, again, chaos and conditions close to civil war reign in Afghanistan. According to most analysts, under Taliban rule, the country will once again become a hotbed for Islamists and terrorists. Tens of thousands of people have already left the country and are on their way to Europe. We also see that migration to Europe has increased this year without the situation in Afghanistan. Compared with the last year, the number of people who have tried illegal immigration has multiplied. We Hungarians also experience this at our borders. In the first eight months of 2020, we stopped 20,497 border offenders, 65,751 by the end of August this year. There has also been a significant increase in the number of captured smugglers. By September this year, there were 637 people smuggled down against 257 last year. [[15.10]] It is feared that Hungary must prepare for another wave of migration, even in the same way as the 2015 migration crisis. However, it is reassuring that the border fence is still in place and the strict rules of the legal border closure remain in place. We can count on the exemplary service of our police and soldiers, who guarantee the stability, sovereignty and security of our country. This security is threatened by the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, which constantly criticizes border protection measures, breaks down the fence and lets migrants in. We can remember Gyurcsány's earlier statement, and I quote: Hungary would definitely benefit from accepting immigrants. And we can see that nothing on the left has changed. A few weeks ago, Gergely Christmas fell when she told the German liberal newspaper Die Zeit that, I quote: let me be honest: it is not possible to win an election; ensuring the rights of asylum seekers is a moral duty and part of my program; it will not be written on any election posters. Such statements also prove that the protection of the country cannot be left to the left. To guarantee the safety of Hungarian people, we must stop Gyurcsány and Christmas. Dear Secretary of State, On all these matters, I ask you how much migration pressure we must prepare for in the future. Is the country prepared to stop a wave of migration that can be compared to 2015? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-09-27-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is prepared to overcome the growing migratory pressure, the government provides all the necessary conditions, the triple protection works, the legal protection, the lively protection and the fence are in place, it works, we protect Hungary's borders. The Western Balkans route was once again full and the number of migrants captured has reached its peak. This weekend alone, 1665 people were captured for illegal crossing the Hungarian border, the number of people who entered or attempted illegally between 1 January and 26 September 2021 was 80 034, while in the last year, in 2020 there were 23 766 people. At the same time, the number of smugglers has also increased; as you said, there has been a significant increase in the number of smugglers caught. The U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan has created a situation that could cause a wave of millions in the next period. At the southern border, we are protecting the security of Europe as a whole, and hopefully we will be able to stop them from bringing people here from Afghanistan. Migration is not a human right, everyone has a country, it must be maintained, made viable and developed. We need to get help where there's trouble and not bring trouble here. Migration pressure is expected to continue to increase significantly at the southern border and the southern border of our country should therefore be strengthened. Thousands of people, police and soldiers are currently protecting Hungary's southern borders. This is one of the largest budget expenditure in the police chapter, and we cannot hope for support from the Union. The security barrier, its deterrent force, the legal conditions and the adequate number of police and soldiers protecting the border guarantee the safety of Hungary. I would like to thank the police and soldiers who protect our borders. The Hungarian government will continue to protect Hungary's borders and protect the safety of Hungarian people. Today, Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe and the world, and we are working to ensure that it will continue in the future. 98 percent of those participating in the national consultation reject the mandatory quota and consider the Hungarian government's policy to be correct. I ask the honourable Member to support the Government's efforts to maintain this favourable security situation with regard to Hungary in the future. Thank you very much for your interpellation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-68	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2021-09-27-69	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We can still hear those sentences when the opposition said it was a fake problem. We can see from the figures, we have also heard the State Secretary's analysis of the situation, we can see that the situation is getting worse; the situation is getting worse, and this must be dealt with effectively. Hungary has already demonstrated in recent years that it can effectively take the necessary steps against migration, which is a dangerous phenomenon. Thank you for this, indeed, for everyone's standing at the border, and for those who are trying to create this background, and the Hungarian people, I think, have such a commitment to their country. Unfortunately, however, we can see that there are opposition politicians who do not think in this way, do not think in the same way as, for example, the majority that has completed the national consultation. I think that, therefore, we must stop Ference Gyurcsány, we must stop Gergely Christmas in order to keep our country safe in the future, and Europe will still be safe in the future. I therefore accept your response to the interpellation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the response to the interpellation. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: what kind of government measures are the result of outstanding economic growth? It's an address. Congressman András Aradski has the floor.
u2021-09-27-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of 2020, there was an outbreak of the Crown Virus pandemic. The Hungarian government responded by example, organised the protection against the epidemic, redistributed resources, and provided all material and material conditions. During the difficult time, doctors, nurses and health care workers in Hungary have performed superhuman performance, for which they should be thanked. We should also thank the Hungarian population because they complied with the emergency rules imposed by the government, because this is the only way to protect the elderly from the serious consequences of the epidemic. Now it's clear that vaccination is the only solution, so I'm asking everyone who hasn't done it to get vaccinated. Dear Secretary of State, However, what the economic situation of Hungary was before the outbreak began does not matter. Based on data from the period prior to the Crown Virus crisis, Hungarians were one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout Europe. Since 2010, the government has been supporting young people's start-ups, home-buildings and family formations with an increasing amount of money from year to year. Under the current governance of Fidesz-KDNP, support for families has increased nearly three times, one of the highest in Europe. Family-friendly governance has helped Hungary achieve the fourth largest economic growth in the European Union in 2019. Dear Secretary of State, The government also made it immediately clear, when introducing epidemiological measures, that, in addition to protecting people's lives, it is a fundamental priority to protect or restart the economy. The effects of the biggest economic programmes in the history of modern Hungary, the economic conservation and re-launch action plans, are already visible. As early as last December, as before the epidemic, the economy grew even more dynamic than the experts expected. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. In the quarter, the performance of the Hungarian economy was 2.7 percent higher than in the first quarter. GDP is 17.9 percent higher than a year ago when the first shock of the Crown Virus crisis resulted in huge shutdowns. As a result, there has also been an increase in the scope of the municipalities, and perhaps this is why the mayor of the town of Érd was able to waive the state aid necessary for the construction of two nurserys. On the basis of the above, I would therefore like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State what kind of government measures result from outstanding economic growth. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai wishes to respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-09-27-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It has been proven that the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian government, performed well during the crisis, during the crisis, because after the economic crisis, Moody. s gave its opinion for the first time, clearly expressing that Hungary has handled the crisis well, and that is why it deserves to be rated. Why did this happen? It obviously includes the work of the last ten years, because the Hungarian economy has become strong, its foundations are stable, and public finances have also been characterised by dynamic growth during the outbreak. [[15.20]] This has enabled a series of comprehensive economic policy measures of 30% of GDP, mentioned by you. And you can see the results of this, because the 17.9 percent you mentioned, which showed the level of economic growth in the second quarter of 2021, is unique to Hungary's performance. But, thanks to crisis measures, we are also at around 8 percentage points in terms of economic growth for the year as a whole. And why could that be done? Firstly, because we have started protecting jobs and not creating a new relief system, and we have not pushed people into aid, but rather offered wage support programmes to workers and employers. For example, the aid covering 70 per cent of the net wage lost, or the sector wage support of 50 per cent, or the R &amp; D wage support of 40 per cent, as well as development aid linked to direct job retention, ensured that a significant proportion of the jobs were maintained. Thanks to these programs, 837 thousand jobs have been protected. But the government also encouraged the creation of new jobs with development contributions. This enabled 67 thousand new jobs to be created. Today, there are over 4.7 million employees in Hungary. What else has helped us to achieve this result? Tax reduction and tax relief, because there is not only a tax reduction in this, but also a number of tax reliefs, or the provision of loans that are very preferential and interest-free. Tax relief has also helped to boost investment. Significant support for the budget and the shift of EU funds in this direction have also contributed to the recovery of investment. It is a brave decision when the economy is in trouble, the country is in trouble, to say that more people, more jobs, more investment, so that when the crisis is over, the economy can continue to grow and grow. Hungary has succeeded thanks to the government's economic policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-09-27-74	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2021-09-27-75	I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his response to the exhausting and encouraging perspectives. I can accept this answer, even because it is possible to fully agree with the measures that have been listed. It is a coherent set of measures, which has characterised the policy of the Hungarian government since 2010, and this policy will ensure in the future that, as a result of the 5.5 percent expected economic growth, the personal income tax refund promised to children in the first quarter of 2022 can be implemented and that a major pension premium can be paid, which has become regular in the past, in line with the Hungarian government's economic policy. With this in mind, we support the Government, and thank you for the answer I accept, I repeat. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-09-27-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpát, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: "How long will the poorest be scammed? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Justice Judit Varga, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2021-09-27-77	Mr President, Dear House, I see that the government today has no lack of self-gratification, which we have our opinion on, but it is obvious that it dares to argue on facts and figures, because we have a social disaster with which we need to start something, whether you admit that there is a problem in this area or not, because our country is perhaps the only European country in which, throughout the crisis, there has been no control or protection of small pensions and a 50% ban on the implementation of minimum wage incomes. It will be difficult for the Secretary of State to accept, but I will try to make it easier for you. The fact is that by 2020 a figure of 133 thousand forints was issued for the average pension under the HCSO. We're not even meeting the median pension here, which would be more typical. Let's take this 133,000 forints. It's got, like, two kinds of demands on it. I have also met with a case where two enforcement groups tried to collect the same claim on the family, and it turned out that these prohibitions had already been made, Mr. Secretary of State. The thing is, after the double ban on this earner, let's talk about an average pensioner whose only income is this pension, he'll have 66,000 forints left to make a living for a month, Mr. Secretary of State. In the meantime, if possible, one of your ministers will be able to realize 10 million forints in support of, say, village CSOK, certainly on the basis of the need. That's why I'm saying it's hard to accept, because it's far from your world to make a living with that kind of money. But let's look at a net minimum wage case. If, where appropriate, someone has 111,000 forints left, and this comes with such a 50 percent ban on executives, against which you did not want to act during the crisis, this fellow countryman would have to solve his entire month with 55,000 forints. Meanwhile, you, State Secretarys and Ministers have received hundreds of thousands of HUF child rearing grants and cafetheria benefits, while the admission of Hungarian citizens to housing cafeteria has been made difficult, and the transfer of the child by the employer has been seriously hindered. But let's look at a lucky fellow countryman who's looking for a guaranteed minimum wage. If he is hit by this ban on executives, then he will be left with 72,000 forints if he is the only breadwinner, or, say, a one-man household. Meanwhile, the price of a metropolitan rent, say, is over 100 thousand forints, now guaranteed in large cities as well. And what we see, Mr Secretary, is that we have tabled a proposal to at least exempt small pensions and minimum wage earnings from the possibility of such bans, you have not said anything about this subject. So my question is clear: do you personally support the exemption of the smallest income and income from enforcement bans? [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-09-27-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the subject raised by the Member, or even on the subject of last week's foreign exchange credit, it is a significant fact, so to speak, that funds are lacking. So, in the case of foreign exchange creditors, the congressman also suggested why we are talking about the pre-2010 era, when we know that most of these economic problems [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: 2001.]] It comes from that period. With Ferenc Gyurcsány, after they've gotten along so well, they'd have an excellent way of talking about it. What you have just said in particular, Congressman, these are certain disbarment cases, this is basically the Hungarian legal system, the product of the last 30 years. But there were executions before that. And we also know that there are some items to be carried out, and they make up most of it, for example, child support, the Member said horrifiedly that a 50% ban is possible. It's possible. If more children are entitled to child support, then indeed, the maintenance debtor is obliged to provide for up to 50 percent of his or her income, contribute to his or her spouse's expenses, which he or she spends on raising children. For example, the other items that appear in these bans should be considered for some of the condominium debts. How unfair it would be for the other members of the condominium to pay the debts arising from, say, water consumption, lighting, or shipments of waste, which the condominium is obliged to pay as a common cost. If they didn't have this device, they would practically be stowaways. I do not dispute that there are, indeed, claims that are significantly difficult to enforce for those who are forced to pay for them. They may also come from guarantees, where, let's say, they are not directly understood. [[15.30]] But once again, I can only conclude that there is practically a legal system, there are adult people, there is freedom of contract, but there are also contractual obligations, so we cannot break the whole of the legal system. There is a crisis, Mr President, which is why, for example, there is a moratorium on credit repayment. In fact, as we know, there is a moratorium on eviction due to an emergency, but soon the winter eviction moratorium will also be in place, which was extended by this government to include a Christian Democrat saying that people have been protected for a longer period of time. Even after the emergency was over, so it was extended until April, and you know it. Practically all the measures that could be implemented within the framework of operational law could be carried out, we have tried to go through with them. The other part of the reference to the crisis is that, in fact, those who lose their income are in a difficult situation, disappearing and falling. Practically in these detentions, thanks to the successful crisis management, the jobs remained, the incomes remained, and the obligations could be repaid without being reprimanded, staged, in its process. It's not a comfortable situation, but it would cause even more trouble if it got messed up and couldn't be dealt with all the time. So from this point of view, if you think about it, Mr President, because it does not make the debt disappear, it may even accumulate because of interest rates and others, if the repayment is not to such an extent, and these legal frameworks have not been designed earlier by accident, so that they cannot be complete, the ceiling is 33 percent, except in exceptional cases that you mentioned and I have detailed. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-80	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2021-09-27-81	Mr President, Dear House, I can't accept that answer because it wasn't honest and it wasn't straight. I'd like to put aside the undersecretary's lectures, because it's a professional question. Secretary of State, I can say with all my bases that you have made a pact with the banks, because you have signed a EBRD pact and an agreement with the Banking Association that basically destroyed the former foreign exchange credit victims. But the fact that you're hiding behind child support is pretty amazing. In all respects, I support that alimony be granted to all children as soon as possible. Secretary of State, you don't support this. The fact is that in this debate, I made the proposal that the Hungarian State should advance all unpaid alimony payments and then try to recover it from the right holders. You did not support this, you submitted a much softer, brighter proposal, and a much weaker bill went through. So don't hide behind this. [[Dr. Pál Völner: But there is an advance right now!]] Mr. Secretary. Tell me, in the case of pensioners, when we want to protect small pensions, how typical it is to have to deduct child support from them! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] No kidding. [[The president's ringing again.]]
u2021-09-27-82	Thank you very much, Congressman...
u2021-09-27-83	Take this question seriously. Be brave and stand next to the Hungarian people! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-27-84	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When is the minimum wage expected to be increased to HUF 200,000? It's an address. Before I give the floor to Congressman Attila Barcza, I would like to inform you that State Secretary Sándor Bodó wishes to respond to the interpellation instead of Secretary of State János Schanda. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Consultations on the 2022 minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have been launched. The government seeks to reach a comprehensive agreement on minimum wage with professional organisations, and therefore keeps consulting both employees' and employers' sides, as it has requested the views of the people in the national consultation. In line with the opinion expressed by the Hungarian people in the national consultation, the government proposes to increase the minimum wage to HUF 200,000. This means that from 2022 the minimum wage can be higher in Hungary than the average wage under the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány. The aim is to ensure that workers benefit even more from the results of economic growth, and that the continued growth of the domestic wage level in the viral crisis can continue. 94 percent of those who completed the consultation agreed that the minimum wage should rise to HUF 200,000, so there is a significant social need for the further growth of the smallest actions. The Fidesz fraction also provides the government with all the support on this issue, since wages have been rising steadily since 2010, and the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers have increased more than twice as high as at that time. These are facts. The minimum wage in 2010 was 73 500 forints, so it would be a great achievement if we could reach the sum of 200,000 forints. It can be said that government policy based on tax reduction and support for families has strong support on the basis of the results of the national consultation, there is consensus that life will not return to normal after the coronal virus epidemic, and that jobs must be protected at the same time, support families and maintain security. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State when the minimum wage is expected to be increased to HUF 200,000. Thank you.
u2021-09-27-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó, who wishes to answer the question. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as my fellow Member has said, the results of the national consultation show categorically that the expectations of the population are expressed along the lines of tax reductions, along with the policy of wage increases, along with the expansion of the family support system, along with the assistance of the credit moratorium, i.e. all the values and principles that have been described previously by the civilian government. Obviously, in the crisis situation, two main questions were raised, how and how to help. One is a so-called normative support, everyone gets a certain amount of money, then organize it, solve your life. The other was what Hungary chose to do, that all the help was formulated along the lines of preserving jobs, where we started job-saving and job-creating programs depending on what the virus situation was demanding. Of course, it was not possible at the time to know, in some opinions, which would be the more viable way, but based on today's employment figures, it became quite clear that this was the right way, i.e. a package of measures to preserve jobs and create jobs. What am I saying? It is quite clear that GDP growth was 17,9 percent in the second quarter, for example. But you could say, of course, where we started. But what concerns the number of people employed is 4.7 million people, but it is quite clear that it means that since the change of regime, they have never worked as much as in the post-plain period. The 4 percent unemployment rate in Europe is one of the lowest, fourth to fifth. These indicators clearly show that the crisis management has been good and that wage increases policy must be continued. Of course, our political opponents do not necessarily identify with this, and perhaps not at all, and when it would have been possible to help this work with their votes, they did not do so. But obviously we cannot wait for them, we must continue our task, and indeed it is, as Congressman has said, that wage negotiations have actually begun. It is the Competitors' and Government's Permanent Consultation Forum that is intended to conduct these negotiations, prepare the decision, where employers, employees' representatives and government representatives are present. It seems that the request made by the national consultation affects the negotiators, if I may put it this way, since we can see that there was 94 percent support for the national consultation, that the minimum wage of 200,000 should be reached. We are on the right track, it seems that this 20 percent increase will be available as far as possible this year, in good case even by mid-November, until the end. Of course, we also need to think about the guaranteed minimum wage, because they are the ones who receive so-called skilled workers' wages, so we must also think of them, because it is obviously also a very important, very important economic potential, that this is okay, and it is also a very serious question of how and how the government can help businesses who need to produce it. [[15.40]] At the moment, it is quite clear that there is also a need for government involvement, and the government is obviously also committed to doing so. Indeed, it is a talkative fact that if this minimum wage increase is achieved, the minimum wage in Hungary will be higher than the average wage during the period of Ferenc Gyurcsány. It should also be noted, although time is short, that in the context of the minimum wage, we must pay attention not only to the minimum wage, but also to the minimum wage, but also to the minimum wage, which has a pushing effect, so that all the other wages will rise depending on it, as well as social benefits. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] of which only two are mentioned, the calculation of the child and the kid is also based on this. So, we're on the right track, we'll be ready in November, and it'll be signed in December at the latest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-88	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[On the mark of Attila Barcza:]] You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-89	I thank Mr Secretary of State very much for his comprehensive reply. It is important to point out that with this planned decision there would be almost three times the minimum wage that was under Gyurcsány's governance. We know that their government almost bankrupted the country, doubled the government debt, the foreign exchange debt ratio and the country's vulnerability to the rest of the world. And, as the Secretary of State pointed out, one of the drivers of economic growth is the improvement in employment; I can confirm that, as we have already returned to the state of labour shortages in the constituency of Sopron. I think it is a huge achievement that, despite the crisis, I am thinking about the Hungarian family support system for all of our achievements, as well as the reimbursement, the pension premium, the 13th month pension recovery, we have all been able to preserve it in the course of the virus and the economic crisis, so I think we are on the right track. And I think it is very important that the government completes the idea that this amount will rise to 200,000 forints. I accept your answer and thank you.
u2021-09-27-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 3:41 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the proposed amendment to Act I of 2021 on the control of the Corrovirus pandemic follows a debate. The government referral is T/17053. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, whether he wishes to speak now or later in the debate. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Mr Vice Minister, he indicated that he wanted to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak, and no one in writing has indicated in advance his intention to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] Dear Parliament, Since no one wished to take advantage of the opportunity to speak, the debate is closed. As there is no debate, it is natural to signal that Mr Deputy Minister does not wish to speak at any further stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, István György, State Secretary, will be the author of our next agenda. [[Dr. István György is not in the Chamber.]] I'm ordering a two-minute break, and we're hoping it'll arrive within this time. When you arrive, we will continue our work. Please stay where you are. Thank you. [[Break: 15.43 15.45]] (President: István Jakab) Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dr. Ádám Steinmetz)
u2021-09-27-91	Dear Parliament, Welcome, Mr. István György State Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work as announced in advance. The Commission's reports on rules to facilitate the competitive functioning of higher education institutions and the amendment of certain laws on property management, government administration and criminal law follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17098. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Committee on Budgets and the views of the minority expressed. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Budgets, acting in the role of the Legislative Committee, discussed the bill before us on 23 September 2021. The T/17098. Rule 46 of the House Rule and the accompanying summary report. 6 votes in favour, 3 votes against and without abstentions. A total of 18 legislative amendments are initiated, of which I would like to mention only two in particular. One of them will direct the future funding of universities and a performance-based funding system will be established based on 25-year framework agreements and six-year funding contracts that will ensure the stable functioning of universities in the long term. In this way, the State will play an active role in the life of the newly created institutional system and will cooperate as a maintenance partner in the future. The success of a country is guaranteed by the number of educated people. I think that there is a need for a change of model in higher education so that our universities can take part in international competition as soon as possible, at the highest level. Another important element of the proposal submitted concerns the Hungarian village programme. Within the framework of the Hungarian village programme, it is possible for companies in settlements with a population of less than 2 thousand to apply for support to operate a convenience store in small settlements, or to open a new shop in the settlement, in settlements where this has not been so far. In these small settlements, it is not uncommon for municipal mayors or their relatives to operate these shops by running the companies they set up. State aid is of crucial importance for the survival and development of small settlements, and therefore the settlement would be disproportionately offended if the Public Finance Act were to exclude the only economic company that is supplying the settlement and supplying its needs. Therefore, the legislation provides an opportunity for them to fulfil this function. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, together with the summarised amendment, the proposal tabled is clearly for the common good, and I therefore ask with respect that you support the motion with your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum timeframe of seven minutes. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett. Here you go. [[15.50]]
u2021-09-27-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased to welcome you in this debate, because at the first stage of the Commission's term, I think that I have not received and that opposition points have not received any relevant answers to what I have just said. I would like to thank you very much for your substantial response by the Secretary of State. We cannot ignore the character of the salad law, which contains legislative proposals in a package, some of which we would certainly have been able to have had a meaningful and valuable debate not only at the committee stage, but also here in the plenary room, in which I think we would have come to a standstill. These include, for example, the amendment of the rules on unfair market conduct and the punishment of unfair competitive advantage; I think that this is more than important. Such would be, for example, a proposal amending the law on victim protection and compensation for victims of crime, which is also extremely important, and I think that the government and opposition could be a priority issue. For this reason, the salad law, as I said at the beginning of my speech, is not to be supported. The opposition association, said by my fellow Member and my fellow member working with me in committee, does not see the fact that the amendments to the Higher Education Act and the change of the higher education model would bring about competitiveness for our higher education institutions, students in higher education and staff in higher education. On the contrary, allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to briefly mention that so far, the change of model has had such consequences in practice that we have had to divorce forced retired professors, seemingly by mutual agreement, but at the same time expressly removed from university teachers. We therefore do not see it ensured within the opposition federal system that the change of the higher education model would be aimed at competitiveness, on the contrary. In this salad law, we will find a piece of the model change, or the type of asset that we can't support, because the money becomes uncontrollable. I come from a political community, by the way, Mr State Secretary and my fellow Members, which should support and celebrate the change of model, when the system of universities is finally moving away from state powers, and we should feel that university autonomy is becoming just a more important value, but the current way in which the model change takes place, and the transformations of foundations, serve the opposite, Mr State Secretary. And what we can see in this law is that the only institution whose asset allocation is included in this legislative proposal will do the same. I do not mention certain examples that have had dramatic consequences for some of our higher education institutions, but it is clear that in many cases future 18-year-old students will submit their applications beyond Hegyeshalom, and many of our elite universities will lose audiences by considering that it is the costs of living abroad or the fees to be paid in the home higher education institution that are more burdensome for the family register. Indeed, Mr State Secretary, we see many times that students who have received admission do not enroll in universities that we have highly appreciated before, and I am very confident that we will be able to appreciate them in the future. The legislative amendment proposed the protection of personal data, and, moreover, the Deputy State Secretary, who was one of the authors of the Commission section, said to the members of the committee that the government was paying attention to a long-term scientific debate when he looked at the direction in which he could choose in the data protection of persons. I would like to emphasise in this debate, Mr Secretary of State, and I would very much like to thank you if you respond to this, if, in the protection of personal data, in which it is really very important to pay attention to the most serious professionals, scientific debates are important for you, then the freedom of science, the value of the centuries-old university autonomy, and the values that our higher education institutions have built, are not so important that they do not become ruins of the current system, we do not lose any listeners, no PhD students, no assistant professors, no doctoral candidates or professors because, where appropriate, they express their views that are not in line with the current government. What I see, Mr Secretary of State, is that, of course, it can be said, and I believe that decency requires that this amending proposal does not conflict with the current Fundamental Law, so that no formal error has been made, and I think that the government is making a mistake in the organisation of society when it tries to force this current system and this current amendment plan through the higher education system. I hope that the change of government can put a stop to this, and we are going in a more sensible direction, with more sensible parliamentary debates and with the hearing of those involved. Thank you for listening.
u2021-09-27-95	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr. István György State Secretary if he wishes to... [[Zoltán Balczó: I'm sorry, Mr. President, I volunteered. István György indicates his intention to speak.]] to speak in the debate. Excuse me, Congressman, there is an appointed time for everything, so now Mr István György wishes to speak as rapporteur. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[Zoltán Balczó: Sorry! Excuse me, Mr. President.]]
u2021-09-27-96	I don't know if I'm audible.
u2021-09-27-97	Yeah, perfect.
u2021-09-27-98	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to comment on the answers in the closing word, so not now. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-27-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. So I would like to say that Mr Secretary of State wishes to speak at a later stage in the debate. We now have Mr János Bencsik, an independent person who had previously made a written statement of his intention to speak. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-100	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the salad law before us is, in principle, to help the competitiveness of higher education institutions. However, this law does not include raising student scholarships, increasing social support, settling often shameful teaching wages, or the housing crisis that is increasingly affecting young Hungarians. When I was a college student at ELTE about 15 years ago, there was this nasty joke about what the finished engineer would say to the graduated philosopher at McDonald's. It means you want it to go, or you eat it here. And unfortunately, this distasteful joke has become an unattainable fantasy for many young Hungarian educators and researchers, because after 11 years of so-called national governance, ladies and gentlemen, we are there today that a young assistant teacher who has started his career is looking for half of the salary of a fast food seller. Today, who serves people behind the counter of a fast food restaurant in Hungary, not underestimating the importance of their work, but today earns twice as much as a beginner teacher. That's how much you appreciate commitment to science, talent and diligence, and this is the only data in itself, I think you'll tell the so-called national government more about your attitude to science, education and culture than thousands of pages of studies. That's how much you appreciate career-starting educators, librarians and researchers. With an average of around 5 in Hungary today, depending on the average university, you can expect a scholarship of approximately 20-30 thousand forints. This was about 15-20 years ago, at the turn of the millennium, he could still have some motivational power, but the sad situation, I don't know, he knows that today, with so much money, with so much scholarship, a university student cannot rent his own apartment in Budapest and most county seats, but not even a room. In most districts of Budapest you can't rent a room under 40-50 thousand forints, my fellow members of the government! This is your offer for young people today to invest in knowledge, invest in diligence, invest in their training. It is also recent that half of the students applying to the college did not have a college seat in 2021. And those who do not have a dormitory will have to face rent prices that, according to 2017 data, have doubled in Budapest and more than one-and-a-half times in rural county seats. And that's 2017 data. Since then, rent prices have skyrocketed even more. And although the coronal virus epidemic has led many to hope that this will subside, we can see that this is not the case, it remains priceless, without parental support, it is priceless for a young Hungarian today to get a dorm or, if he does not get a college, to get a sublet. [[16.00]] Student poverty is a form of poverty that is unspeakable and silent. Within the walls of this House, we are talking about a wide variety of poverty, but I have not heard any speeches or constructive proposals from the government and especially from the opposition benches. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, today a Hungarian youth must choose not between studying or having fun, but between learning or providing a living. Today's young Hungarians can only hope for real support and support from the Hungarian political palette today. [[Zoltán Balczó: What is that?]] Civil Reply is the voice of young people. We are the ones who demand a radical increase in scholarships, social support, teaching wages and housing for young people. We're telling the young people that you're coming because you deserve to be here in this country, because this is your country. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-09-27-101	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members in the time frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-102	Mr President, First of all, I apologize for my previous lack of patience...
u2021-09-27-103	Nothing happened!
u2021-09-27-104	I thought you were going to call the Secretary of State to a close. I took part in the substantive debate when we discussed this agenda. I would like to address the issue of the change of model in higher education, not to repeat what has been said there, but to ask one question. And I was inspired by what the national secretary of state, sitting in the place of the Secretary of State, said in his closing words. There he said that in fact, in terms of the intellectual level of the Hungarian higher education system, the competence of the teachers and the operational structure of the organisation, it is in line with the fact that at global level, at European level, the only thing missing is financial resources. There's only one thing I want to ask you. While in this table there are the financial resources for five years, which appear to be abundant, Mr Secretary of State may reply to the legitimate suggestion by Mr Bencsik that we are about to create the conditions that you are missing, I have one question. Why is it that if the change of model is actually a goal for the institutions to have adequate resources, the state is unable to resolve this directly? Only through public-service trust foundations, KEKVAs, can it resolve this, which integrates with a vassal system, where loyal members of the board and members of the audit body will be appointed to the party for nine years, where they will determine who will follow them? So my question is obvious. Why is this the only way to give the institutions resources? I recall the early '90s, this was the main line of SZDSZ: the state is a bad farmer, and we know how many bad decisions have been made after that. I am very afraid that trusting the feudal chain to control higher education in this bad host of the state will not lead to good for ever. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-09-27-105	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members how they would still like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr István György, on behalf of the rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2021-09-27-106	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The general debate of the bill was held by this House on 21 September 2021, and it was put on the agenda by the Committee on Budgets on 22 September and by the Committee on Legislative Affairs on 23 September 2021. I would like to highlight, in addition to legislative and linguistic amendments, those relating to the comments made by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, including, perhaps, what we have been asked by Mrs Anett Bősz, although in a different context. Originally, the bill would have provided the Hungarian government staff with the management and registration of the government officials. In fact, NAIH raised an objection here, because of the discussion in the emergency procedure during the preparation, this part was indeed inadequately discussed, but NAIH's comments were examined by the government, it was fully divided, and this was therefore highlighted in the bill. Then, as a result of the amendment, the intention to amend the laws that require more serious revisions to certain regulated areas of law was removed and further consultations were required for amendments. The regulatory need for these laws will not be settled by this bill. Why is it a salad law? In the legislative process, the government needs to address a number of legal issues to be resolved, for which this legal technique is also available. Obviously, that's something to object to. This is not the first, and I believe, of course, the last such bill, which lies before this House. But, as I said, for example, those five legislative amendments were more appropriate: six came out because we thought they were not part of the salad law. About higher education. We know that the honourable opposition practically disagreed with this change. We consider that the entire Hungarian higher education has reached an age limit. This new maintenance model has been launched in a wider range of institutions. 21 universities started training in the new structure, involving some 180,000 students out of 280 thousand students. The number of higher education students has been increasing steadily since 2018, and the number of higher education students has increased by 10 370 compared to 2020, i.e. 11 percent, and the number of foreign students has increased by 65 percent by 2020. I do not find it unimaginable what Mrs Anett Bősz said that there are people whose ambitions call them to a foreign university. My problem with this is that once the excuse why Hungary is not more open is why we do not provide wider opportunities for people. Well, we assure you that everyone has a free way, a citizen of the European Union, so if you want to use the services of foreign higher education institutions, you can do so freely, but the figures show that there are significantly more people coming to Hungarian higher education institutions and that they are learning significantly more than in previous years. I would like to add that the Times Higher Education 2022 ranks 11 Hungarian universities today instead of 9 last year. We believe that this journey is promising, as opposed to what has been said here by opposition speakers. However, the government has also set the goal of providing a predictable and predictable financing environment for model-shifting universities, making the necessary changes is essential for the smooth functioning of the system. Yes, in fact, the answer lies in what has been said here in one of the opposition speeches, but it is a very serious source that these foundations are now receiving. According to the high-volume decision-making package of higher education, the annual operating resources of universities in the form of public foundations will increase to more than HUF 330 billion, and in the coming years we will spend 2700 billion on infrastructure development of higher education, so next year, funding for universities will increase by two and a half times. With this, the amounts spent on higher education will be close to 2 percent of GDP, which we believe will lead Hungary to the European frontline in the financing of higher education, also at European level. [[16.10]] A bill can, of course, be called to account for many things. This is often the case here in this House, when there is a bill before this House, there are issues in that legal environment of environmental regulation. There are a lot of things that are not covered by the draft legislation. It is obvious that such a proposal does not present a complete regulation of a code to the relevant regulatory environment. Here we now have a very serious proposal for support from these higher education institutions before this House; as I have said, the resources are increasing by two and a half times. The proposal before us also includes other amendments, the real estate application of the Hungarian department of the Johannite Order is what it contains. The Johannite order is a very old tradition, like the Order of the Knights of Malta, its participation in the care of patients and in the care of those in need is indisputable. This property change makes the asset relief it contains on the basis of an agreement concluded by the government in 2016. Victim support has been mentioned, and it is also that, in the debate, if it were possible to discuss this in detail, it is in the words of the forward-looking Member. We also believe that this opt-out system opens the door even wider, extending victim support services to a wider circle of victims, expanding the scope of crimes where victims directly reach victim support services. I believe that this is also a forward-looking proposal that can make serious progress in helping Hungarian victims. The bill also concerns the operation of the Hungarian Development Bank. Here, we see the need for increased risk-taking limits in the context of an emergency to continue beyond 31 December 2025; this margin must be available. Dear Parliament, To sum up: with the bill before this House, the government is seeking to implement its vision that will enable Hungary to achieve its 2030 strategic objectives and that its higher education institutions can manage the education and preparation of future generations with an unparalleled system of resources. The higher education institutions maintained by public-service trust foundations are preparing to perform the most important service in the development of the nation: to preserve knowledge, talent and youth and to equip them with the right values in order to ensure that Hungary is increasingly better and stronger for future generations. To do this, I would like to ask the Parliament for its help, and I would ask you with respect to support and accept the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-107	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours 13 minutes, and I'm taking a 17-hour break. The Parliament will continue its work by decision at 5 a.m. Please make your exact appearance, thank you for your attention. [[Break: 16.13 17.03]] (President: Dr. János Latorcai) Note: Attila Móring József and Sándor Szabó)
u2021-09-27-108	Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machines. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. It follows that Act T/17053 amending Act I of 2021 on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic is hereby amended. Final vote of bill No 1. I would remind you that, according to our previous decision, the bill will be discussed in an urgent hearing by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17053. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 112 votes in favour, 25 votes in favour and no abstentions. T/17098 on rules to facilitate the competitive functioning of higher education institutions and amending certain laws on asset management, government administration and criminal law. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our previous decision, the bill will be discussed in an urgent hearing by the Parliament. T/17098/6. T/17098/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Committee on Budgets T/17098/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes to 114, 27 against and one abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17098/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, I/17064. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 31 votes against and one abstention. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, I/17051. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 30 votes against and one abstention. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, at I/17150. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 31 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP representative, I/17151. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 31 votes against and one abstention. Mr Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, I/17153. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 31 votes against and one abstention. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, I/17155. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 31 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Next up is 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of Parliament. A decision to amend a decision. S/17184, tabled by the President We have all been able to find out about this on the House's website. I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-109	, 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the OGY resolution is amended as follows: The National Assembly elects Sándor Kovács, Fidesz, member of the Committee, to replace Mónika Dunai, Fidesz, member of the Committee. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2021-09-27-110	Thank you. And the date, notary?
u2021-09-27-111	Budapest, 27 September 2021 [[17.10]]
u2021-09-27-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/17184. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 145 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to discuss the immunity and the decision. I would like to inform you that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy on 20 September 2021, 22.B.146/2021/4. I'm calling from the Egri District Court on a private charge of defamation. To examine this, the Speaker of the Parliament handed it over to the immunity committee. The immunity committee is H/17185. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution concerning the immunity of Members of Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has already been said here, the Egri District Court has turned to Parliament in its transcript, proposing that Mr Hadházy's immunity be suspended on the ground of defamation. So the rating is a misdemeanor of defamation. The following facts can be established from the documents: on 26 February 2021 and 12 March 2021, on facebook surfaces, Member Hadházy made such statements about the operator of an adventure park and the social cooperative based on the same location, making such statements as a multibillion-dollar fraud, cheated EU money, vile theft, and so on and so on. Of course, the stakeholders opposed this, which they considered to be malicious, mood-inspiring claims. That's where the procedure starts, because they're going to report the congressman. It's a typical private charge, the M.O., we could say it's typical. Congressman Hadházy did not attend today's committee meeting. What I've told you so far is nothing new. The next one, however, can affect Parliament here with the power of novelty. It is rarely the case, although it is already the second time in relation to the Member, we have found from the documents that the court has violated Mr Hadházy's immunity, as the court secretary held a personal hearing on 9 June, and Mr Hadházy was summoned to do so. Several times this time, the Member made the court secretary's attention to the status of his Members of Parliament. The court secretary considered that at that stage of the proceedings the Member's immunity should not be sought. The immunity committee found that the court secretary's interpretation of the law was wrong. We also refer to a European Criminal College opinion, which is 1/2013. On the 8th of October V., it was written in connection with such a case, where the Curia also notes that a personal hearing is an act of procedure against a Member of Parliament in criminal proceedings, which cannot, under any circumstances, be done by the determining court without seeking his immunity before him, without making a motion to the Parliament to suspend immunity. I would like to remind my fellow Members that we have two obligations: if we are an official and now we understand that the court is being prosecuted, we must reveal our identity as Members of Parliament. The Member has done this in several ways. And our other obligation: theoretically, if our immunity is violated, we must immediately inform the Speaker of this. This did not happen here, but I tell you that we have been informed on our own initiative that there has been an infringement of immunity here, so we have indicated to the Speaker, and the Speaker has already initiated his usual procedure to inform the appropriate judicial forum of the violation of immunity, and obviously to signal the court that such proceedings should be brought to an end. By the majority decision of the Parliamentary Assembly, I propose that in the matter in question, the Member should not suspend his immunity. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-09-27-114	Thank you very much. I am now going to ask Mr Ákos Hadházy if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman, it's a five-minute window.
u2021-09-27-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask this House to suspend that immunity, and I have repeatedly asked for it. These reports are usually used for communication purposes; many of you have done so, too, Mr Simonka, Mr Happy, and this is a communication goal, and it is not possible to say that the Member is hiding behind some sort of immunity. Of course, I don't want to hide behind any immunity. I suggest to you that the next time I release any incriminating evidence about you, you file a civil suit, not a criminal suit, or you suspend immunity. So what I'm asking you to do right now is to suspend my immunity against the committee's position. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-27-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament, Ákos Hadházy. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend Mr Ákos Hadházy's immunity by 19 votes in favour, 116 votes against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break, and then we will continue our work with immediate questions. [[Pause: 17.20-17.23]] (President: Dr. János Latorcai) Note: Attila Móring József and Sándor Szabó)
u2021-09-27-117	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. Mr. Péter Jakab and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Due to his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask Congressman György Szilágyi to accept the person of the response or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-09-27-118	Thank you, Mr President, we will wait for the Prime Minister.
u2021-09-27-119	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear House, Reliable Congressman Dezső, representative of the MSZP... [[György Szilágyi: Mr President, next is Tamás Csányi.]] I apologize. I can work with what I have. Congressman Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State will reply if the Member accepts it. That is why I ask the honourable Member to accept the person who is responding. [[On Tamás Csányi's mark:]] Thank you very much. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-120	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is a great pleasure for me to meet here in the old walls and talk about the current issues of education policy. You know, Secretary of State, we could have done the same in Mezőtúr a few weeks ago, when you were at the inauguration ceremony of the primary school on Rákóczi Road, because thank God this school was completed, and it was really beautiful. This was my school in my hometown, and I really wanted to be at this event. But imagine, Mr. Secretary, I did not receive an invitation, and I was even informed by the Fidesz people there that I could not attend this event by order of the highest authority. In addition to the fact that this personally hurts me a little bit, it is interesting to know what a higher order can be that excludes a Member of Parliament from such a beautiful and very important event. Perhaps you'd be kind enough to answer me that, Secretary of State. But there is no problem, because thank God, István Happy, Member of Parliament, was at this event and spoke, not only to speak up, but also to take a picture with you, a friendly handshake, and he wrote on Facebook that his heart is now at the mercy of raising the wages of teachers, and he will do everything he can to make it happen, to raise the wages of teachers. I think that all the words of the Member are gold in this matter, and I can very much identify with him, because the correction, correction and increase of teachers' wages have been waiting for you for a very long time. I, too, have asked you many times, and my other fellow Member has been on this subject many times, and the sector itself has practically stood up to raise the wages of teachers and teachers, but you have allowed it to go this far. Well, here is Mr. István Happy, vice-president of the Committee on Budgets, who says that he will be taking this forward from now on. So my question, Mr. Secretary, is when and how much you're going to raise the wages of teachers. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-27-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-27-122	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Well, I'm really glad you like the renovated blue school building. Indeed, it provides a modern environment that is much more at home for children, which can also be better used for teachers. In private at the project ceremony, which was the last step of the project, the workers were there, the participants in the project, not even the students were there, because on another occasion the opening ceremony was held. They didn't invite any alumni, that's all I wanted to say. But I'm sure you'll be able to return to your old school anytime. I think it was a very nice celebration, and we're very happy for you. In addition, as soon as this is finished, the next school upgrade will begin. They're gonna renovate a high school there. As you can see, while you're stealing the government and stealing all the money, the school you went to is renovated, and where you went to high school, it may also be renewed. So we're going step by step. We're building a kindergarten, we're building a nursery, we're renovating schools, we're renovating high schools. That's what I'd like to say on the one hand. On the other hand, indeed, we believe that teachers should raise wages whenever possible. The first group to which the government decided to raise wages was the teachers. We have been in government for three cycles, and we have not had a cycle where the wages of teachers would not have automatically increased, since there was now a 10 percent increase during the epidemic, and there was a 50 percent increase earlier. You know that when you were on the government with whom you are now political, the left was not a salary increase during the crisis, but a salary reduction. So, honourable Member, first of all, be kind enough to clarify with those with whom you are campaigning, that you are planning to cut salaries for teachers, as you have already done before. We tried to increase that. Let me give you a few more numbers for the rest of the seconds. If you look at how much more we spend on teachers' wages, you can see a 64 percent increase compared to 2010. If you look at how much this is in next year's budget, you will see that it is 986 billion forints, so it is nearly a thousand billion forints. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I'll continue from here for a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-123	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Csányi. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-124	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I didn't want to be an alumni, I wanted to be a Member of Parliament, but forget it, I've let go of this thing. Happy István, however, did not let him go, as he published an entry on his Facebook page on 16 September, in which he wrote that at the faction meeting he had arranged for a teacher's wage increase. Then be kind, Mr Secretary, to tell me what my fellow Member has done, because we are sitting on pins and needles and waiting for results. You can talk about anything, point back to the previous eras, but the screening fund is the same as the minimum wage for 2014, HUF 101 500. [[17 .30]] Your starting salary, Mr. Secretary, to a current teacher who comes out of college, college, is 219,900 forints. I think that this is not the amount of money we can use to invite teachers, young teachers into the field, and you know very well that there will be very serious problems with human resources here in the coming days. We are talking about an ageing pedagogical society, you are doing nothing about it, you are not dealing with education workers, you are not raising your wages, you are playing the Hungarian future. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik, DK and Dialogue. György Szilágyi intervenes.]]
u2021-09-27-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-126	You are laughing at this, but I think it is an important question, Mr honourable Member, so in the budget you have not supported next year, we will spend 108 billion forints more on education and public education, because we believe that the basis of a successful Hungary is, indeed, to spend more on education every year, and it is also very important that teachers' wages really rise whenever possible. There was also a special wage increase for the head of the institution, here we can talk about a 50 percent wage increase, it affected 6,000 head of institutions and their deputies, so at an institution with a student population of over 400 people for 35 years, so it was a long-time teacher who had been qualified as a teacher, so it was an extra raise, and now it could be a salary of up to HUF 600,000, but that does not mean that all other teachers should not be involved in raising their wages. Only, honourable Member, with whom you want to govern in Hungary, they have closed schools in more than 300 places, laid off 15,000 teachers and took a month's wages from teachers, and yet you demand more wage increases. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] We really were able to raise wages [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] All you could do was show me how to take wages from teachers. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2021-09-27-127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Dezső, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what is the reason for the Government's decision? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr.Soltész has appointed Secretary of State to respond. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[He's a gullible Dezso nod.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Dezső, a gullible notary, may I have the floor, Mr. Congressman. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, Undoubtedly, your invention is the name and institution of the investment that is of the highest importance for the national market. This has a very nice development curve, which I would like to present very briefly. Initially, this institution was used for large public investments to speed up intoxicatingly slow and cumbersome public administration, trying to set shorter deadlines for public administrations to speed up these investments. Yes, but often, despite the accelerated deadline, the administration did not decide as you would have liked, so this institution entered the second stage, by simply excluding the administration from the administration of these matters as they were, together with specialised administrative and professional staff. Well, let's not talk about the fact that maybe the different stakeholders, people, couldn't even smell these cases. So it really got faster to deal with these cases, because you're the only ones left. The result was that the buildings were very ugly, in exchange for a grandiose price. Last week you took a level, not a state, not a large investment residential building, a simple residential building in my constituency, near the Dagály beach, which you considered to be a major investment in the national economy. What interests did they decide to pursue? That it's not a national interest, I'm pretty sure. Perhaps the Secretary of State will shed light on the reasons for the government's decision.
u2021-09-27-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Miklós Soltesz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, He asked what justified the government's decision and decisions. After you have asked your question in general, I will answer you. The government's decisions are always and always in the last ten years, and the interests of Hungary, the personal interests of the people living in Hungary, and I add that they serve the interests of the nation as a whole, as well as the reasons for those decisions. They justified this in the epidemiological situation, and justified this in the context of the re-launch of the economy, and I would add that every step we take is justified by the fact that the government that you have conducted does not come back by chance. So in the epidemiological situation, I have to say to you that we have done everything we can to make decisions, to take steps to protect people from one side, even though you have done everything you can to prevent protection, even though you have done everything you can against health workers and everyone to protect us, but we have fought, and I believe that we have fought successfully. Honourable Congressman, The other is the re-launching of the economy. A few weeks and days ago, when left-wing MEPs kept saying that it was a real pity that the reboot was so successful, because you thought that it would shake the voters and turn them against the government. Honourable Member, the government has also decided on many things, including the re-launching of the economy, or on whether we can implement even the reimbursement if economic growth is above 5.5 percent, or if we bring back the 13th month pension, pay a pension premium and protect jobs, and certainly also the priority investments in this line. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's part of it. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Dezső, has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-132	Mr. President. Well, the answer is far from satisfactory, given the fact that I was talking about how a residential building could be a priority investment in the national economy. As opposed to the building regulations for everyone, you have approved the construction of an additional 1240 square meters of flats, reduced the size of the green surface to be built by 600 square meters, and allowed the number of parking spaces to be built only 70 percent. If my calculations are correct, in this house the square metre of the average apartment is less than 30 square meters, and the investment helped the person who makes the investment to a HUF and a half to two billion. He talked a lot about people. And the people who live there who are ignored will receive a building monster, an unlivable rent wing, and a mountain of cars in front of their homes, as a result of the construction that violates all the rules. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] for national reasons, the greater glory of the Orbán government.
u2021-09-27-133	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-134	There's no question that I don't even know you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Dezső Believing intervene.]] But all I know is what you've done in construction and investment. It is certain that, if they have built anything, they have made greater investments, all within the framework of a PPP programme, the consequences of which we are moaning now, the country is moaning its consequences, and otherwise they are not based on pursuing an economic policy that results in investments being made from tax revenues, the money already produced. I'm sure they didn't really do anything. Under your government, not just the capital, but the whole country. Now that in one case, it hurts you that something has been highlighted by the government from a national economy point of view, it may hurt. Overall, people see that they are enriched by investments [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They're strengthening the construction industry, and what you guys did was catastrophic. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-135	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of State in charge of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "What kind of emergency is this? It's an address. Madam Member, because of the Minister's absence, Mr Soltész has asked for an answer, as has already been the case. I respectfully ask, do you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-09-27-136	Thank you, Mr. President, I accept.
u2021-09-27-137	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[17.40]]
u2021-09-27-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, the Covid epidemic, 400-500 new infections a day, and unfortunately we have dead countrymen for days. Meanwhile, government communication talks about successful epidemic management, effective vaccination, and even SOTE rectors also said on many billboards that Hungary works if the vaccine works, as if this were the result of the vaccine's ability to work. The government has made it clear that the protection against the fourth wave is based solely on grafting, but experts link the flock vaccination to well over 80 percent grafting, while the number of vaccinees in our country is less than 6 million. According to the data of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, we are the 21st and the second of the 30 European countries. More than a million people under 12 years of age were clearly not vaccinated, and about a third of the 700,000 elderly received Sinopharm, according to studies, did not receive any immunity. In addition, the virus may be infected as a vaccine or transmitted as a vaccine even if the vaccine is likely to protect vaccinated people from serious complications or deaths. However, the emergency situation, the extraordinary legal order, has been extended, although 55 percent of the vaccine is, according to the government's official information, a perfect epidemiology defense. There are also reports of victory about the economy, wage increases, tax refunds, but they forget that if the economy so so so soared, it would be appropriate to return the resources taken from the municipalities, which, by the way, are suffering primarily from the local government leaders who come out of the benches of the opposition. So I respectfully ask you, after all the conflicting information and actions, what kind of emergency is this, Mr. Secretary of State? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-09-27-139	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and One, at least give me the exact numbers. We have achieved 60 percent grafting, and if there is no complete graftation, which does not exist in any European country, then at least acknowledge what you have done over the last few months to scare people away, dissuade them, dissuade them from the vaccinations, what you have done, what kind of chamomuvides you have made, and I can tell you more about the incredibly anti-human acts that you, Members, have done here. You were the ones who once said that there was no epidemic threat, once you were told that it wasn't worth fighting, that people shouldn't use it, and so on and so forth, going against science, going against the knowledge of doctors. If you think that the economy is not working, you have qualified the country, yet you can expect an economic recovery that will result in a personal income tax refund for family members, which will result in your left-wing fellow politicians taking away the 13th month pension, and we will rebuild it. Despite the fact that you did not want to support that many, many steps, the re-launching of the economy will allow more and more jobs to start, and not only have we saved jobs, but now there are more than before the crisis. Yeah, it's farming. But on the other hand, if you're talking about who's hurting the local governments, you, your left-wing allies, have been hurting him. It was this government that consolidated the government's debt, it was this government that provided the people who lived there with the possibility of taxing and business taxes on their income, through which the municipalities, the municipalities, were enriched. Thank you very much for asking.
u2021-09-27-141	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is for Congresswoman Anett. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased, Mr Secretary, that you have entered into a deeper economic discussion. Then I'd like to tell you that that historic-scale bond issue doesn't exactly say what you're talking about. But if we're talking about local government withdrawal, this 110 billion forints that were taken away weren't even 2 percent of the general government deficit. I think that it would have been safe to give this back from now on if the Hungarian economy had already been in such an upswing, and everyone would certainly be happy that we were qualified, but then all those involved who took their share of the common burden in the protection of the disease, including the municipalities, should have it back. Once again, these tax refunds should not be announced on the days when one of the largest one day's averages is not reported by the government as the largest issue of dollar bonds. My argument for taking the vaccine from the beginning obviously doesn't interest you at all, but unfortunately, I'm running out of time, so we'll talk about it next time. Thank you for listening.
u2021-09-27-143	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-144	Madam Congresswoman, under the leadership of Gergely Christmas in Budapest, the general assembly decided that just because the leaders are pro-government, they will be deprived of road construction, renovation applications and opportunities. So did the 16th. Divisions XVII, XXI district. On the other hand, precisely because you are pursuing such a policy, the government has also supported these districts, as I would add, opposition-led cities, such as Pécs last time. A German school was renewed, a Croatian school was renewed, the medical campus was renewed from more than HUF 20 billion. Don't tell me we don't support opposition cities, that's your lie. If we can have a little chat, Congresswoman, I'll ask you a question, too. When are you going to apologize to András Aradszki for saying that while he was in serious illness, I can't wait for him to recover, along with his hypocritical and lying policies [[He's lying!]] [[He's lying!]] We can put it in clay. (Magyar Anett: He's lying!) Andras Aradski, who was just about to die? [[Mr. Anett Bősz: Mr. Secretary, your time is up.]] When are you going to apologize? [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-27-145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Madam President, because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask you, honourable Member, whether you will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-09-27-146	Thank you very much. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2021-09-27-147	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Prime Minister must answer this question at the hour of the third immediate question. I'm asking you not to sit down. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:, Why does the government not have HUF 40 billion to save Lake Venice? It's an address. Madam Member, Minister, because of his absence, Mr Sándor Farkas has appointed Deputy Minister, State Secretary, to respond. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes.]] Thank you very much, you'll accept. Accordingly, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-148	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past few months, worrying and scandalous news of Lake Venice has appeared in a row. They also happen at Lake Venice, just like at Lake Balaton, Lake Fertő, investments that threaten natural beaches, or there were suspicious real estate management issues. Unfortunately, there are ecological problems. During the summer, we heard that there was a very serious loss of fish twice, and in this connection we also learned that the water level in the lake is falling significantly. Right now, if the information is true, it's about 70 centimeters. It is also said by professionals that if there is no meaningful intervention, the lake is moving towards dehydration. As far as we know, the government has put this issue on the agenda, but it has ended, and the government has agreed that it does not have 40 billion forints to save the lake, it is possible that there were no serious plans. We see that this is a very outrageous thing in itself, that there is no HUF 40 billion to save the lake, when we see that the oligarchs near Fidesz are receiving very serious subsidies. Then came the real surprise, which was about the government wanting to build the Kajak-Kenu Centre from HUF 43.5 billion. We know that such a center and kayak canoe require water, and at Lake Venice there is a problem that the water level is falling. [[17.50]] It doesn't even make sense how the government came up with that. Unfortunately, this case, that the government decides to take such steps, proves that the wildlife of the lake and its environment do not really matter to the government, it is more important that a home NER company wins such a serious project, 43.5 billion is a very, very serious amount. I would like to ask: what is the government's position on saving the lake and this project?
u2021-09-27-149	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-150	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You live here in Hungary, in the Carpathian Basin, and this summer has also proven the damage that can be caused by the lack of precipitation that has unfortunately occurred this summer since spring. When we are talking about the lack of precipitation and the decline in the water level of the lake, I should clearly refer to a weather factor, but before that, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that these water issues belong to the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you for asking, but they would be competent to answer that question. But aside from that, I will try, as a lowlander man, because that nearly 40 million cubic meters of water, which is the volume of the lake, has actually decreased, and we also know that the supply is extremely difficult, because the reservoirs that are in the region cannot, so to speak, replace and replace that amount of water in Lake Venice. At the same time, however, the reservoirs that have been mentioned and discussed will be partially emptied and drained in just days, thus increasing the water level of the lake by about 11 to 12 centimeters. But here comes another problem: due to the extremely hot weather and the lack of precipitation, the water quality of these reservoirs is, unfortunately, causing serious problems, so we need to handle this water drain with extreme caution from these reservoirs, which will take us to Lake Venice in order not to cause any additional trouble. The fish mortality that you referred to during the summer is, unfortunately, a consequence of such a drop in water levels and the warming of water and the proliferation of different plant species that can cause extreme damage in such a case. I'd like to continue later. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-27-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll start with what I agree with the Secretary of State. I think that it is quite possible to agree that lowering reservoirs in this way poses a serious threat. We know that in recent years the problem of reservoirs has been neglected, in fact fishing is taking place in both reservoirs, and that the primary aim of these reservoirs is to ensure the water supply of Lake Venice. We agree on that. Now, the other half, Mr. Secretary of State, how do we do that? Why do we want to come here when we have this problem, to build such a kayak-kenu center? We should solve the problem of Lake Venice first, and then, if we can solve it, we should decide where and under what conditions such a kayak-kenu centre could be built in the country. I think that this is unacceptable, and it is true, it may not belong entirely to your wallet, but as a responsible ministry, you should do so.
u2021-09-27-153	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2021-09-27-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and However, I would like to tell you that the government has already provided 14 billion forints for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the beach wall of Lake Venice, and it should also be remembered that there are 136 tourist projects in the area. I would like to draw your attention to one thing very strongly, and that is the kayak-kenu course you mentioned. In Hungary, there is only one kayak-kenu track on the Maty-ére in Szeged, it is not natural water, but it is ingested water, and if there were at last another such a very important sports centre in Hungary, not far from Budapest, I would say, near, and one of the most outstanding sports disciplines, because if you watched the Olympics, you could see and hear that one of the most effective sports in Hungary is the kayak-kenu, this must create this condition for healthy sport and rural life. So I believe that in the coming period the government will pay due attention to this and will support these investments. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-27-155	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Minister has asked Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, to answer his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-09-27-156	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2021-09-27-157	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Mellar is the one who has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The opposition pre-election is taking place, more than 500 000 voters have already participated in it, but there is no information on MTVA's surfaces, so they are actually ignoring six parties and over half a million voters when they do not report on this. But I'll go on: last Friday, the presidential candidate debate was held at the RTL Club, with 800,000 viewers, but the MTI didn't even send a correspondent to the event. It appears that the public media operated by public funds of HUF 100 billion per year is used by the government only for its own propaganda steels. The pre-election will soon be over, and every Fidesz candidate will receive an opposition challenger, and Viktor Orbán will receive a single opposition joint presidential candidate. I ask Mr Secretary of State how they imagine how they think that next spring this media will be able to ensure that he can really provide meaningful information about this and not give it to God, even to organise professional debates, because this would be very important in order for citizens to be in a position to take responsible decisions. I also ask because the Free Europe has a voice recording that says it's announced in public television: the campaign should be supported by the government, who doesn't like it, and the person who doesn't like it will give up his resignation. So this is what I'm asking you: what are you planning to do to make next year's election really fair, and to be properly informed about this in public media? Thank you very much.
u2021-09-27-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There was a lot of news about the primary, so I'm surprised that you're speaking about it because there are few reports about it. I think most psychics have reported it, opinions have been published. Now there's a fundamental difference between the two sides. I don't think it's my job just because there's news in some media one way or another, so I'm trying to put pressure on it, and I see that the left doesn't think so, because I can give you countless examples of pressure on certain editorials. I don't think that's right. By the way, if you've brought up public television, it's clear that you're both saying that you're not getting space and you're constantly provoking the public media by, for example, breaking into the TV headquarters on that particular day by representatives of all opposition parties and demanding that a [[Anett's intruding.]] read the content they consider important. Either way, whatever the reason why they did this, one thing is certain that the Hungarian public is more diverse than the people you joined when they were governed, because then practically the Sun-kele programme was the Hungarian public, and now everyone finds media suitable for their taste, world view and interest, and this applies either to the pre-election or to other subjects. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.00]]
u2021-09-27-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Tamás Mellár, is the subject of the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-162	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I am not reassured by the Secretary of State, because I believe that the government's universal responsibility is to ensure impartial information. The public media is called public, public media, so that it does not serve partial goals, but universal goals, and this obviously includes the opposition. But to be a little more specific: you are hindering the uploading of the Media Council, and you do not allow the opposition to put a candidate in the vacant place, and there is such a candidate, there is a deal on the opposition side, but you do not even discuss this issue. This makes it quite clear that they have no intention of transforming public media in such a way that it really serves the public interest. Thank you very much. [[Anett's clapping.]]
u2021-09-27-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Csaba Dömötör State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-27-164	It's not surprising, but we disagree. You're referring to partial goals. The fact is that pre-2010 media regulation gave parties the opportunity to delegate members to these bodies, so much so that there was even an example that NGOs would delegate politicians, such as István Ujhelyi, on behalf of civil society organisations. We don't agree with these things, but I'm asking that if you want to use pressure on this case, you shouldn't choose the solution to break into a TV booth. [[Anett's intruding.]] That they threaten to ban journalists, as they did on the Momentum's side, they do not threaten them by making them runaway, or to say one more thing, your Prime Minister's candidate refuses to respond to certain media. So if you want to get more publicity, whether it's the pre-election or your presidential candidate's program, then convince him not to hide from journalists and answer questions, that's my suggestion. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-09-27-165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman János Halász, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: Why do the capital-owned cinemas not want to screen the Gyurcsány film? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[Fisherman for János:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me, even in the meantime, that you would accept the person of the responder. Mr János Halász has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-09-27-166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Soon the film processing the darkest period of the Gyurcsány era will be in the cinemas, the film, which was made to remind everyone of the worst years of the period after the change of regime, the sins that Ferenc Gyurcsány is now trying to undo with red sneakers. The film, which will remind Gyurcsány and everyone about the dismembered, sold-out country, families chased into foreign currency loans, abstract wages, taken pensions, broken schools, closed schools and hospitals. The film reminds everyone of the lies put into the government program, the well-organized, power-fearing state violence, blood, and finally total failure. Of course, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his opposition cooperation, headed by Jobbik [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Are we in the lead or...?]] Trying to forget the pre-2010 police terror, try to undo the crimes of the fallen prime minister. This can also be seen from the fact that the people of the local government led by Christmas are so eager to meet Gyurcsány that by all means they are blocking the presentation of the film. The capital-owned Budapest Film is only one of its six cinemas, the Corvin cinema, who is willing to screen the film in the week of the premiere, but only in an early afternoon, only in a room. In other words, the Budapest Film is trying to prevent access to the film for political reasons, which represents the darkest time in the party states, even though in the last 15 years a new generation has grown up, and it is important for you to understand the political events of that time. People are also right to ask what the Prime Minister of the Gyurcsány show candidate, Mayor Gergely Christmas, thinks about the events in 2006, as we have never heard of this. Dear Secretary of State, So I would like to ask you that you can accept such censorship that we can experience in connection with the Gyurcsány film. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-09-27-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr Rétvári Bence, Secretary of State, will be the immediate question to which you have been asked. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-27-168	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, As I listened to you, I remembered Petőfi's diary on 15 March 1848 that the honourable governor's council was pale and made me tremble. That's about how I picture the people sitting at City Hall when they saw reality coming. The biggest opponent of liberals is reality. In a documentary, they reveal to people exactly what happened here 15 years ago, when Ferenc Gyurcsány deceived his entire people and led the country to the brink of bankruptcy. And then they pulled out someone that had been tried for a long time, because Tamás Liszka was not probably elected because he could be the best leader of this public cinema network, which is supposed to introduce films to all people that represent important social issues. He even wrote in his application that it would be important for him to have Hungarian-made films in the cinema, and then a Hungarian-made film appeared. But we know that he has already received a scholarship at CEU to explain the topics he likes there, and then on Facebook he sometimes attacked Fidesz, why Fidesz hates the young people, and he changed the Fidesz slogan only, that if you pay, he attacked Pál Schmitt, and so on and so forth. So a long time ago, an old left-wing character, perhaps from the times of LMP, got to know each other with Gergely Christmas, and this immediately fits into the process of threatening the actors from the left, threatening the directors, threatening the cameramen to avoid this film, because it seems that this film is a very sensitive point for the left, that precisely those who are preparing for power are completely unscrupulous. And now they're not afraid of abuse of power, either, so that this movie can't get into the movies, even though, as you said, it's the biggest disgrace of the last 20 years. This time, this event, must be known to everyone, we must remember that, and that is a complete shame. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that they want to hold it back with censorship, so that people can see this Hungarian film in Budapest cinemas. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-09-27-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. János Halász. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-170	Thank you very much for the floor. Yes, we could hear from the film making and the creators, so afterwards, how many obstacles they encountered from the left when the film was created, they also wanted to prevent this film from being made, but now it is finished and finished, and it is before the presentation. But it is very thoughtful that, by the way, this film is about the truth, and those who lied back then are trying to stop the people of Budapest from getting to know it. This Budapest Film Zrt., which owns the cinemas in Budapest, is 100% owned by the Municipality of Budapest. So obviously the owner's will happens in these movies, and that's what's happening now. We see, we have known this for years, the puppet of Ferenc Gyurcsány Christmas, and now we see what it is like when Gyurcsány wishes something not to see this movie, and Christmas does it without thinking through his appointed men. I think that's what's happening right now, but it would be really good to stop it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-09-27-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-172	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, In the case of Gergely Christmas, we saw that he was happy to advertise in words that he was building a free city, but in the framework of the free city, he suddenly wanted to set out for free newspapers what to do across the streets of Budapest. Then, suddenly, he shut down Budapest Info so that it wouldn't be possible to ask him, but only make his communication one way. What we've seen from Ferenc Gyurcsány in the last few days hasn't changed, the only difference is that he doesn't have the police, he doesn't have water cannons, now he yells face-to-face at a man to shut his mouth very quickly, do you understand? He threatened people on the open street who had a grudge against him. But there is also Ágnes Vadai in Parliament, who threatened the right-wing representatives with a Rwandan pattern; András Fekete-Győr, who sometimes barges into an editorial office and threatens journalists there, all to the greater glory of freedom of speech and the party family of European liberals; Peter James stepped up here last week, he threatened with sexual violence; Timea Szabó threatens everyone with prison every single week. And we have also seen that this is not just the Hungarian left, because obviously in America, the left-wing even turned the President of the United States of America off Twitter, unscrewed him from Facebook. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[18.10]]
u2021-09-27-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, MP József Attila Móring, the notary of the Parliament, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:, How does the Government appreciate the National Consultation and what does it do to enforce the will of citizens? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Miklós Soltész has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Mr Attila Móring József, notary of the Parliament, is the subject of the vote. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-174	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government considers dialogue to be of paramount importance to citizens, so since the change of government in 2010, it has made regular use of the possibility of consulting when it asks people's views on important issues between two choices. These were about the Fundamental Law, social and then economic issues, livelihood immigration and terrorism, debates on national and EU competences, international plans on immigration, the protection of families or the protection of Crown Virus. In order, the government received millions of responses, which it was able to take into account in its decisions. This is the 11th consultation this summer, with the aim of creating consensus points on key issues in the national consultation. With the assistance of the National Consultation Institution, government decisions are made in accordance with the will of the people, and their results provide legitimacy on the international stage, for example, in the EU's always critical arena. The success of the national consultation is also shown by the fact that many countries, such as the United Kingdom, France and Ireland, are now applying this institution, although no one in Western Europe and Brussels has ever asked people, for example, about LGBTQ propaganda or migration. Dear Secretary of State, Nearly one and a half million citizens responded to the consultation's questions concerning very important topics, such as raising the minimum wage to HUF 200,000, the constitutional protection of family support, low taxes on work and pensions, the tax refund of parents raising children, the extension of the credit moratorium, climate tax, illegal migration, the protection of our children and the establishment of a Hungarian vaccine factory. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what the Government is doing to enforce the will of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Miklós Soltész will answer your question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the national consultation is a method, an opportunity and cooperation with voters and citizens, which not only allows people to have a say in government over four years, and who they choose, but also, where appropriate, within a governance cycle, and this is absolutely necessary. It would have been nice if, let's say, they had practiced this before 2010, if, let's say, Ferenc Gyurcsány had found out what they had done, and what Ferenc Gyurcsány had done with this country, that the leader of the DK leader and the leader of the entire left-wing country, had probably received the right answer in a national consultation, although I believe that the. But it is certain that more than 1.4 million people have answered these questions, and it must be said, as you have said, with quite a consensus overall. 94 percent said it would be good to raise the minimum wage to 200,000 forints. To get the parents who raised the child back from their personal income tax, 95 percent said so. The constitutional protection of family support and taxes on work is 98 percent agreed. People probably feel that if they didn't give it to God, the left would be on the government, they would constitutionally attack the so far family support system. The extension of the credit moratorium was supported by 91 per cent, 96 per cent supported the need to strengthen Hungary to meet new challenges, and there was just as much support for not giving in to blackmail in Brussels, I could go on with it, but most importantly, in child protection measures, it was 97 per cent. We are obliged to do so, and we will do so, which I will tell you in rejoinder.
u2021-09-27-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. József Attila Móring has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-178	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. As we have already been used to this, this consultation is criticised by the left, who, by the way, entertain the worthy with a comedy called a pre-election and a single candidate competition, and with an action not very disguised as data collection. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Don't talk about half a million voters like that!]] During previous governments, they proved that their governments did not make their decisions on the basis of social consensus, they always tried to force them on Hungarian society afterwards. It has now become clear that the government has effectively and crediblely organised the fight against the epidemic and the re-launch of the economy. Re-opening is a key issue and it is very important that measures are based on people's opinions, and this is supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-27-180	I think that the steps that the government has already taken have given rise to great recognition based on the voters' feedback, because the ambition that if GDP growth reaches 5.5 percent, then families will receive a personal income tax refund is also a huge step because it will return HUF 600 billion to 1 million 900 thousand parents. It is also a big thing that not only those who pay direct personal income tax, but also small entrepreneurs, in their special tax system, the echos or those who pay in the Katás system also get a refund. It is also important to raise the minimum wage to HUF 200,000 for the benefit of the lowest incomes, which, of course, does not always depend on the government, but the government can help by providing entrepreneurs with various tax incentives. The third is that there will be a referendum in one month, one week next year, which will serve the protection of children, and I believe that it will help in the majority of Hungarian society. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Z. Kárpát, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why does the government leave hundreds of thousands of people living on the side of the road?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Due to his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga appointed Deputy Prime Minister for his response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-182	Mr President, Dear House, I am not only indicating that the government has left several hundred thousand panels on the side of the road, because there are many former foreign exchange credit damage among them, but also because before preparing for such an immediate question, I look at what we agree on. I have basically been saying here in Parliament since 2010 the importance of a demographic approach. I have always found it extremely important, as a father with three children, that longing children who may not have been born so far due to scarce habitat or financial difficulties should be given the green light at the design level in such a way that no physical obstacles can stand before families if they think about having children. At the same time, we see that the rental program has not been launched, and the CSOK is typically used by those who, if necessary, do not start from the most unfortunate and difficult social situation. I am not sorry about the subsidies from anyone, but there should be no misunderstanding, although I dispute that with a ministerial salary, ten million dollars would go to the recipient on the basis of the need. At the same time, I see that the CSOK takers do not actually make up one fifth of the stakeholders, and there are very many people who cannot benefit from any form of support. In 2011, the large-scale panel programme was suspended, and we see that, although Community EU funds could be made available so that the population could be renovated in a supported way, the Government of Hungary decided, Minister, to use these funds only in respect of public institutions. My question to you is clear: at last you plan to open up these resources to the public, to the citizens in the last months, so that they can renovate their homes in a supported way and step one at a time, where appropriate, or stop at the level of not asking for these opportunities. [[18.20]]
u2021-09-27-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, as I said, instead of the Prime Minister, I am speaking to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-184	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, First of all, we do not leave anyone on the side of the road or along the road, whether it is a health worker, a small businessman or an agricultural professional, we are trying to give support to everyone, and this is especially true of those who, as a young family member, want to get a family home, a nest, and an apartment; this is also true of the people who live in the panel. I would like to remind Mr President that it was the first Orbán government in 2001, who launched a panel programme for the first time in the last 30 years. This is what we have been doing since then: in the last ten years, a number of programmes have been launched that have been able to provide support to people living in houses of this type for renovations. As far as the issue of home creation is concerned, on the one hand, I am pleased that the honourable Member here is complimenting the government on the fact that he has launched such a good programme, because I really think that the benefit of the CSOK is that everyone has access. So it is not a question of excluding anyone from the possibilities that everyone can use this program. Of course, there is a very strong demographic dimension of this programme. We may agree that in a country where the number of souls is decreasing year after year, there is a need to provide the necessary resources for different programmes by linking them to demographic issues. Speaking of home creation, let me tell the Member that by the end of August 2021 more than 192,000 families have received a CSOK request, amounting to HUF 610 billion. Families with two and three children can also borrow a 3-percent flat with a discount rate in addition to CSOK, and we do not want to stop this program, and we want to continue this. So if the Member sees that they have stayed out of this anywhere and in any way human, we will obviously consider supplementing this. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The programme will continue and will also support the people living in the panel apartments. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-185	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-09-27-186	Dear Minister, However, let us not call the CSOK a successful programme in terms of the fact that the flow chart was surrounded by 18,000 evictions, not too far away, the expulsion of 3,000 health workers from forced systems and a demographic disaster. So, unfortunately, and I very much stress that unfortunately, this system has not been able to deliver on the objectives attached to it. Thank you for your confession. She's talking about 192,000 settlements, and I'm talking about 800,000 panel apartments with 2 million residents at the top. If you calculate, Minister, how many people are unable to receive any support, you may accept my advice to open up supported programmes from domestic budgetary sources, where the population does not need to put millions per person, but your saved energy bill becomes the instalment, but let us advance the costs of energy modernisation for them. If this can be confirmed by EU funding, the better, but a large-scale panel programme must be launched. I'm confused that a few months before the elections, they won't even think about going in that direction. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-09-27-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is also a one-minute rejoinder for Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2021-09-27-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to deny that there is a moratorium on eviction, Congressman, so no one is getting out of his house, and even the credit moratorium exists, and we have just extended it until 30 June. So whoever gets into trouble because of his credit can count on the government's support. I myself lived long enough in a housing estate, a panel apartment, right in your almost constituency, but you knew there would never be a congressman there. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So I think that there are different types of people living there, and not everyone in the CSOK has asked for support. So don't give me a big number, because there's a lot of households in there who don't even think about moving from there right now, they're satisfied with what they've achieved. Indeed, there are those who want to go on, there are 192,000 such families, Congressman, do not underestimate this number. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, there are still a number of programmes for energy efficiency and energy use in residential buildings, such as the modernisation of heating systems. We will continue these, and some of them are available to the Hungarian population from EU funding. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-27-189	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Gergely Christmas has legally taught at Corvinus? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Minister, for his absence, has given Mr. Sándor Bodó the right to reply. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[Mónika Dunai:]] Thank you very much for indicating your acceptance of the response. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-190	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We all remember well when the candidate for Prime Minister of the Gyurcsány show, Mayor Gergely Christmas, said in an interview that he had a language exam. Later, it turned out that he only had a documentary paper on this, not a state - recognised language exam. He was exposed several times when he was asked in English and could no longer answer the questions he asked. Later, it became clear that Gergely Christmas did not tell the truth about having a doctorate degree, but he campaigned with it in his previous CVs. Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that Gergely Christmas, without a language exam and without a doctoral degree, taught as Corvinus' teaching assistant or assistant professor at the time when it was led by the well-known Rector Tamás Mészáros. The Board of Education initiated an investigation into this at Corvinus University, which was recently completed. The former rector, Tamás Mészáros from 2002 to 2006, had the same trust position as ÁPV Zrt. Chairman of the Board of Directors. In this position he was closely associated with the decision-makers of the Balliberal governments, including the Gyurcsány Cabinet, and in those days Gergely Christmas worked as a trust figure for the MSZP-SZDSZ government. His company received an overall HUF 25 million commission from the Gyurcsány government. In parallel, he worked as political advisor to the Coordination State Secretariat of the Prime Minister's Office. Dear Secretary of State, During his ten years at Corvinus University, Gergely Christmas was able to pocket almost HUF 25 million in gross. I ask you how the examination of the Board of Education has come to its conclusion, it has been legally taught by Gregory of Christmas on Corvinus, and if not, what will be the consequences of this. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-27-191	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-27-192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Well, quite briefly, Gergely Christmas could not have taught at Corvinus University; she could have done it because she was privileged. The inquiry that you have mentioned, honourable Member, has been closed, in which you have examined the employment of 32 instructors in the Education Office. A serious violation was found in one person, and this was indeed Gergely Christmas. The investigation found that Gergely Christmas's appointment as a teaching assistant did not comply with the institutional regulations, that he did not have at least one C-type examination or equivalent state-acclaimed diploma, or that he was not telling the truth. You've been illegally employed, and I find it hard to imagine that you're the one who hired me, you don't know that you're in compliance with a set of conditions as you go to work. Of course, I have been talking about employment here, but in the case of a teacher, a teacher, an instructor, this is also a very serious ethical issue. It is a very serious ethical issue, since he would be the torch, the example, who stands up to the children, students, students, but here a very serious violation of a principle is a very serious one. What I can say about this is that this is deeply sad. So the fact that he is legally there because of some discrimination in employment is also terribly wrong, but what kind of leader, what kind of educator is he, even with such a background, dares to stand up on the cathedral and try to teach? With this situation, I think we absolutely cannot identify with each other, and it is very sad that this man, this teacher's assistant at the time, has been lying around for months, and he hasn't told the truth that, yes, we were wrong, we were wrong, this and this happened. Well, that's the way it is with this question. Thank you very much. [[18.30]]
u2021-09-27-193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply, from which you can see that Gergely Christmas was able to teach at the university because her relations with the left were already very good. So while he claims to represent 99 percent of the elite, he himself is a member of a privileged socialist coupletelite and, as a result, he is above the rules; while an average person even needs a language exam to obtain a diploma. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer with thanks. There's only one thing that Gergely Christmas can do to draw conclusions. We're waiting for your resignation. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-09-27-195	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Sándor Bodó is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-09-27-196	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for drawing our attention to this unblessed state. Obviously, in the last few weeks, in months, we have spoken about this in more than one, not two places, and we probably will. But the fundamental question, I think, is that, in addition to illegal employment, which is passing away over the course of all these years, it seems to pass away, how does the Hungarian society, the majority of students, or everyone who surrounds such a university world, judge this question ethically, but I can say that the entire Hungarian society. This should not happen in Hungary, and in any case we must draw attention to this, so that it never happens again. Thank you very much. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2021-09-27-197	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, This concludes the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr János Bencsik applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week I listened to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán promise a great deal of distribution before the election with a one-time tax refund, a 13th month pension, a pension premium. All of this, of course, from the pre-election giga loan, the repayment of which will be the responsibility of future generations. While I was listening to this, I noticed that there was only one group that was left out of the current division, and this was the one that was always at the end of the line in the last 30 years when it was handing out: the Hungarian university students. Somehow, it never occurs to anyone what happens to their student loans, which they had to take during the Covid epidemic, largely because the jobs that were in the service sector and the entertainment industry, which they could make a living with in college. Then a few days ago, I turned on the TV to watch the debate of the opposition prime minister candidates, that if the government has nothing to offer to this group but a success propaganda, then what is the opposition's promise. During the one-and-a-half-hour debate, the word "university" was never spoken. The word "young people" was spoken once, while the participants devoted a separate block to the recovery of pensioners' votes and bid on each other on how to give more support to the layer. The word "young people" was spoken only once, at the end of the programme, when the President of the Momentum called on young people to vote as many times as possible. But why young people should go to the vote is no longer said, and I think that is no coincidence. It is no coincidence that, while the government is making a success propaganda, the opposition parties, the merged opposition, are no longer doing anything but promising nothing to young people, and so it is no surprise, my fellow Members, that the opposition pre-election tents are not filled with young people, but the older ones. Unfortunately, this pre-election, as will all normal elections every four years, will be decided in this country by those who are the poorest, the most vulnerable, the oldest and the most angry, and that is a very big problem. The problem is that the future of Hungary, the fates of Hungary, is how many children are born, so that they can produce and pay taxes, so that they can pay pensions in the country, and with all due respect, they will depend not on our retired countrymen, but on today's young people. Young people who now have to decide whether to leave or stay at home; young people who do not have half of the place to live in college today; those who, with a very good study result, have only so many scholarships that they cannot pay the price of a room in Budapest or in major county seats; those whose apartments have doubled in the last few years in Budapest and in the countryside; those whose wages the Hungarian state is paying after their training, half of what the worker is looking for behind a desk; those young people who, contrary to popular belief, do not have to decide whether to study or have fun, but to study or make a living. These are the young people, honourable fellow Members, who have been abandoned by the political elite of recent decades. And let's just say that he let them down because their vote isn't valuable enough to bid on them. These young people in Hungary today can only count on Hungary's new political party, the emerging civic response, which I am a representative of. We're gonna tell the kids you're up next. We're telling you that you're the future, you deserve scholarships, an increase in social support, the settlement of teaching wages, the relief of the housing crisis and, above all, the prosperity in the homeland. We're telling you that next year you can vote for the future, and the Civil Answer is your voice. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-09-27-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát from the Jobbik Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-200	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that many housing issues have been raised in Parliament today, as the promise of prosperity in the homeland has also been rightly said. Unfortunately, in the last 30 years, all this remained a promise, although Jobbik in 2010 treated it as the backbone of its programme; and we can see that we have made countless improvements, positive proposals since then, yet the government has closed itself in its own opinion bubble, kicking out and leaving more entire social groups out of it, trying to achieve something in this area, but it is not enough, but also enough. We have just talked with Minister of Finance Mihály Varga about the different effects of CSOK, but the number in itself, which appears in the form of 192 thousand CSOK contracts, is a small fraction of the number of people in need. What we see is that when I speak for 2 million of our fellow citizens living in 800,000 panels at the summit, it is easy to see that the supported programmes that may run out in 10 or 15 minutes, as their budget is only enough for so many of our fellow citizens, do not provide a systemic solution. However, the situation is quite brutal, as regards the consequences of demographic conditions, as if the country were now surprised by what the profession said 15-20 years ago that there would not be enough workers in health care. The government reacts horribly to the problem in agriculture, but also to factories, because in agriculture, workers from Vietnam, the Far East and many exotic places replace the Hungarian workers. And we also see that besides multi-company companies, there are also container cities that are hauntedly similar to those of Hungarian displaced workers who build similar settlements elsewhere. It's completely sick, twisted, twisted logic. And what is the result, say, of the appearances of foreign workers, of the migrant workers coming here? Two things are certain: they are breaking down the already low wage level and they are helping to force even harder working conditions on the workers who live here. Meanwhile, housing chaos creates additional costs, in rural areas due to inadequately modern energy systems, but also for panel dwellings. And what we can see is that since the last large-scale panel program was suspended in 2011, in the capital, there's only so much mobility that someone with great luck could break out of a panel apartment, and maybe with the luckier family donation, they were able to get out of a used residential apartment with help. [[18.40]] But what we can see is that while there are 29 percent of panel apartments in Budapest, it is in the former heavy industrial centers, where 40 percent. In such a former heavy-duty center, where the factory was closed, the color of the inhabitants, young people, talented people, migrated to the capital or abroad, the chances of anyone being able to break out of this environment and gain decent housing are approaching zero. We'd like to help you with that, too. What we see is that, on the one hand, there would be EU funds and, on the other hand, a hundred billion-dollar mass of resources that could be redirected by stopping some of the pyramid constructions in the budget would contribute specifically to the renovation of our countrymen's panel apartments. I am sure that if we tell a young person living in a panel that we are modernising, renovating, keeping your energy bill the same, but the price of saved energy can finance the investments that can replace the hatch, renovate the whole building's energy system, where appropriate, build a rooftop terrace, a resting-place, a mini playground for children, then I say that we have been able to move forward in terms of quality of life, because in many European countries they forget that the proper climate of housing is not exhausted by renovating apartments. Community spaces, service centres, kindergartens, kindergartens and flexible labour market opportunities are needed to support childbearing in each case where these childbearing plans exist, but they have not yet been realised due to an objective deficiency. So in order to prosper in the homeland, we need to help all the children we desire to have come into the world. In addition to pushing low wages upwards, the other prerequisite is that housing chaos, cataclysms should be eliminated by renting apartments, panel programs and the renovation of part of the vacant housing stock, by using it as a rental. There would be opportunities, there would be budgetary resources, we would also bring will to it, which is why I very much hope that there will be a turnaround in this area soon. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-09-27-201	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Anett Bősz applied for a speech from the DK Group after the agenda. [[Towards László Hajdu:]] Excuse me, Congressman, first on the list is Congresswoman Bősz Anett. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-09-27-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has extended the national castle and castle programme by one year, as no building has been fully completed in the EU-funded project for five years. According to the programme's balance sheet, 3 castles and a castle were renovated in five years, even though the original plans were about 18 castles and 12 castles. Obviously, this is also the reason for the extension. Out of the 25 monuments to be renovated, 13 cases of NER entrepreneurs can be found with luxury castles, jacuzzis, other structures for the convenience of new national capitals. But I would like to talk to you about another castle, the Szapáry Castle in Érd, which could be different, because the government is preparing with steam for the 500th anniversary of the Battle of Mohács. One of the tasks of the Ministerial Commissioner for the Memorial Year is to encourage infrastructure investments in battle-related memories, other regional and building renovations, tourism and cultural investments. In Old Town, Érd, we find such irresponsiblely abandoned monuments that future generations would like to see. However, this requires a comprehensive renovation programme. We have monuments such as St. Michael's Church, the Suffering Christ Chapel, the Holy Roch, the St. Sebastian, St. Rosalia's Chapel, the Minaret and its surroundings, the cellar line, from which the limes of the Roman Empire emerge from its asphalt, so it really deserves special attention Érd Ófalu. Last but not least, there is the Szapáry Castle, as well as the corresponding cellar system and the farmhouse, which is still drenched, but still salvageable. At present, the Szapáry Castle is only situated on the castle hill, even though II. Louis went from here to the battle of Mohács. This is where the National Corps of Catholic Leagues, the KALOT People's College, worked. Here, according to the legend, Péter Szapáry was captured, tortured, plowed, and when Károly Lotaringi turned in the Battle of Ordnance, the old-new lord of the castle summoned Hamja Bey, who tortured him, and told him that in the spirit of Christian values he would forgive, he would not treat the Turks the way the Turks had treated him, but Hamja Bey said that it was too late, he drank poison, afraid of the revenge he could have suffered on the part of the castle. However, out of respect for the castle lord, Hamja Bey converted to Christian faith in the last moments of her life, and she died like this. His name, by the way, is guarded by one of Ophalu's squares to this day. In 1971, the Szapáry Castle was demolished to the last brick, which was mostly due to the then council and the then monument protection. The memory of the castle is now only guarded by a back wall, which is not merely disappointing, but is particularly humiliating to those who contributed to the building of the castle's history. I say, ladies and gentlemen, that Érd deserves the Szapáry Castle, and deserves that the two iron gates of the corresponding cellar system should not hide those cobwebs, not those trash mountains, and not those abandoned halls that could otherwise show us as a castle museum how colourful our thousand-year history was, and how colourful the history of Érd was, by the way, all the way to the XIII. From the start of the century. This is why the mayor of the city turned directly to the Prime Minister, because we see that the nearly HUF 60 billion investment framework, which was meant to renovate castles and castles, could really hide this investment in itself. I'm gonna say it again, not just because I'm II. Lajos started from here to the Battle of Mohács, but because he could finally look down from the foothills of Mount Cuckoo on the Old Wall of Érd as the historical monument would require. I believe that the 500th anniversary of the Battle of Mohács, which will be five years from now, is a worthy opportunity to turn to the fate of such a completely unworthy monument and also to the fate of an unworthy part of the city, which, thanks to these touristic and other monument conservation investments, could create a prosperous cultural life for the region that we would be proud of. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-09-27-203	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Hajdu's speech after the agenda is now taking place. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-204	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, The opposition parties' pre-election campaign is underway, and within the framework of this campaign we visited the housing sites, the residential parks with Balázs Barkóczi, who was nominated as my successor, and I told him about the panel building which 15 years ago was the first one of the XV. in the district, we have renovated in terms of energy saving, as part of a so-called panel program, replaced the windows, and we have completed the thermal insulation of the whole house. Until 2007, such panel renovations took place in the framework of this programme not only in my constituency, but also in the various residential areas of the country. Until 2007, about 34 billion I remember it being used for panel renovation. After that, a new program was launched, the Renovation Program for New Hungary. In the framework of this, our district, my constituency, also applied for significant buildings, the essence of which was that, together with a state contribution, a municipal contribution and the contribution of the owners, a third to a very significant, huge demand, the demand for building flats, the renovation of settlements in almost every district of Budapest and other cities in the country, where this type of housing was built. [[18.50]] I mention this because, on the issue of energy efficiency, the joint programme of opposition parties receives a renewed version of this programme with a strong consensus, and it can be said that a very significant part of the energy policy part, about 40 percent of the energy used by the apartments, is the use of total energy in this country by housing. So here the return would be very effective if and if it could start again after more than ten years, as the previous speaker has just mentioned, that in 2011, this particular programme, which I just mentioned, was stopped and stood for ten years. Since then, there has been no institutional, government-supported panel renovation, so there is no energy efficiency possibility to apply. I think that this could be restarted, and we hope that the government led by Dobrev Klára will be a key part of the project. I would like to mention that this would also mean sustainability, a value increase for the owners, since we are also talking about condominium property, cooperative property and private property. This increase in value could also mean a little protection at home and an investment. Investment, because it is a national asset, so this money, if... and its resources, can be financed by EU funds; it will be part of the government's programme that can be managed without self-control, and in an extensive version it could be solved with some symbolic self-esteem. I think it is important, after the agenda, to raise this issue, because it would also give jobs: job opportunities for the construction industry, job opportunities for the construction industry, and, as I said, a very significant part of energy efficiency. I also have to say that there has already been a reduction campaign and a reduction programme to the extent that the service companies have almost failed to do so. This would be a reduction in costs that would lead to real cost savings for households and would also mean real cost savings and returns for the investor State. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-09-27-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ádám Steinmetz has also applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-27-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Hungary, as we know, is a great water power, and here I am not primarily referring to the success of our excellent swimmers and water polo players on the international stage, but to our natural treasures, our groundwater and our waters, the quantity and quality of which we can be proud. Ladies and gentlemen, We are well aware that parts of the world are deserted, that access to drinking water is limited for millions of people in these places, and that is indeed the background to migration and migration. On the other hand, in the Carpathian Basin, here in Hungary, we drill down to the bottom of the earth almost anywhere, we get water or thermal water of drinking water quality. There is no other way in my narrower country, Somogyland, where the former oil well test drilling has brought thermal water to the surface. It has thermal water, including Marcali, Bags, Buzaks, Csistafürdő, but what less people know is that thermal water can be found under Sávoly and indeed in Balatonfenyves. I would like to draw the attention of the National Assembly to this fact that, in the border of Balatonfenyves, near Route 7, there is an iron pipe that stands out from the ground, and has actually been pouring out of itself certified and tested mineral water since 1969, but unfortunately into nothing. For fifty-two years this source has been unused, which is currently 30 thousand litres a day, I repeat: it releases 30 thousand litres of mineral water. This water flows into the Jancsi ditch, and eventually disappears into Berek without a trace. Yet, the well's calcium and magnesium - rich water could also cure our fellow countrymen suffering from osteoporosis and indigestion. The 24 - degree, unstoppable flowing water, Fenyves water, from the so-called positive well, has been declared fit for consumption from a depth of about 439 meters, which has been shown by the results of the tests. I have personally had the pleasure of convincing myself of this extraordinary source, which is horribly neglected, rather than helping a lot of people to heal, or simply putting out the thirst of the people who work alongside Lake Balaton, the people who visit here. The well is located on a private property outside, but as we know, the groundwater is owned by the Hungarian State. However, the authorities of the Hungarian State have not dealt with the matter in decades. If you will, they will act with the carelessness of a careless farmer. The current technical state of the well: it is not ideal for recovery, but even after a renovation in Balatonfenyves, like the Fonyód mineral water, a marketable product could be bottled, which would otherwise be a big boost both in the settlement and in the region. Well, I trust that the government is not only concerned with the country's treasures for the sake of wealth, and I therefore sincerely hope that they will finally embrace the case of the Balatonfenyves source, the B-18 cadastral thermal well. This would help to preserve one of Hungary's natural wonders and, on the other hand, to make a significant contribution to the recovery of Balatonfenyves. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-09-27-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I now thank our fellow Members for their day-to-day activities, the record-keeping, the technical services, the work of the staff of the Parliament's Office. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. I'll see you tomorrow.
