u2021-09-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I salute my fellow Members and all those who monitor our work. The 4th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-28-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It is increasingly obvious that we must live with inflation, with inflation that has not been experienced in recent years. For several months now, the increase is around 5 percent if we look at the same period of the last year, and the bad news is that not only analysts, but also the leaders of the Hungarian National Bank, who cannot be accused of opposition bias, see that in November the situation could be even worse. It is quite obvious that you have calculated inflation, planned the budget with quite different inflation, and now there are serious consequences. There are serious consequences, because if we look at the internal structure of inflation, we see that products that include very sensitive family of products in the area of daily livelihoods have increased in the first place. That's the fuel price right there. We managed to bring down the peak that your government had set the price of petrol a little while ago. Technically and not only is the petrol price historically this high in Hungary, and unfortunately gas oil is also trying to catch up to this; it is not only gasoline, but also food oil, which already affects households where there is no car or, if there is, very little to go on because of the high fuel prices. And if we add to this the increase in food prices in general, including the increase in the price of bread, which has practically increased its price by more than 30 percent over the last three years, then we see that it is becoming increasingly difficult for people who have low incomes or low pensions. There are many workers, there are many workers, who, although they have incomes, are forced to live up to the last penny, and they don't go to luxury goods, they don't go to Dubai, they don't get on yachts, they don't get on airplanes, they're forced to spend it almost to the last penny for a living, clothes, rent. In any case, they should be helped by those who earn minimum wages or earn income around the minimum wage, because let us not forget that, no matter how beautiful the statistical figures are in terms of average earnings, 80 percent of people, workers, receive their income under average earnings, to a significant extent. It would be a good idea to help minimum wagers. This was recognized by the government, but it went in the wrong direction. In practice, he wants to make charity pay for this check with someone else, and in particular with businesses and, in proportion, with small businesses. After all, when the government simply wants to increase the gross minimum wage, all it does is make employers pay the price and cost of this charity, while the state itself is the biggest winner of this, as the central budget receives significant facilitations through additional tax revenues, while the central budget does not want to contribute to this increase in the minimum wage in the form that we have been proposing for years. Let's make the minimum wage tax-free again, that would be fair, that would be fair. The other big loser of this inflation is a broad layer of pensioners, because this year the uglyness that will happen to the government will also have to compensate even for the compensation, so that they could not predict what the expected inflation is. It is quite clear here that the pension-raising methodology that you introduced in 2010 failed. The so-called inflation-following pension means that pensioners are becoming more and more depressed and more difficult to live. We must return, as we propose, to the mixed indexation that also takes into account the rise in wages. Retirementes should be provided for in an annual pension increase at all times. We are pleased to see that nearly 20 years after we started introducing the 13th month pension, this occurred to you, too, after nearly 20 years. We welcome this; they could have done so before. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-28-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Burány. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai will answer.
u2021-09-28-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As much as you do not like, the fact that inflation is higher than in the previous period is an international process, an international trend. You forget to tell me that the world is after an economic crisis or even in it. This is no longer the case for Hungary, and it is also due to the success of the economic policy of the relaunch. As far as inflation is concerned, Hungary is indeed one third of the European Union, but every country in the European Union is characterised by an increase in inflation. On average, inflation is now about 1 percent higher in Hungary, 1-1.5 percent higher than in the rest of the European Union. For example, in Poland, it is the same as in Hungary, Belgium, and I could continue to list countries. So it is not an individual case, and it is not that the government has done something wrong so badly that this data is very bad in Hungary's outlier and, by the way, in international comparison. No good, that is true, because inflation is a public enemy, inflation is a public enemy to the government, to the whole society, and the Hungarian National Bank is saying the exact same thing, which otherwise has a legal obligation to maintain price stability. But it's very interesting to hear your speech again, because there's a government job behind it, a government performance. Well, in your time of government, and you don't usually like it when I bring it up, you couldn't keep the incomes higher than inflation, which means the price increase, they couldn't hold it. Over the years, real earnings and real pensions have deteriorated during your period. And don't tell me it was a crisis at the time, because there's still a crisis. Now, since the Fidesz has been ruling, neither pensions nor the real value of the actions has been reduced. Actions have been growing dynamically since 2013. And of course, inflation is an important factor and an important figure, as I have already said, and a price increase, but there is more important, namely that our income, earnings, pensions hold their value or do not hold them. And you can say anything since 2010, since Fidesz has been ruling, the value of pensions and incomes remains. [[9.10]] Are you coming with your pension to retire like this and retirees like that? Honourable Congressman, Didn't you take the 13th month's pension? You can say that it would be good to undo that, and you voted in favour of the government's proposal to restore the 13th month's pension. Didn't you regularly inflame the pension increases? So the fact that the government is now successfully over a crisis... because otherwise Moody would have qualified the country? Why would one of the world's largest credit rating agencies say positive, good thoughts and words about the country's economic policy performance? Why is it that Hungary has not become more unemployed or even less than the average of the European Union during the crisis? Why is Hungary once again a leader in economic growth vis-à-vis the European Union? Why is it that, despite all the rumors, the debt in Hungary is still lower than when we took over government from you? Why is consumption constantly increasing in the country, even in times of crisis? Why is it that people's economic situation is stable? Why is it true that fuel prices are sometimes temporarily higher or higher, yet every Hungarian family is able to cope with them, precisely because income and pensions are constantly increasing, pensions will be corrected for the rate of increase in prices. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-28-4	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Member Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Let's talk about the facts. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-28-5	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Today is the last day of the primary election, and that means that today is the 9th day of the pre-election, and if we went out to the streets, we could see every day that people stood in long, crowded lines to take part in this election to express their views on our country's performance and not our country's. What are we looking at? That in these crowded lines... I would like to indicate that 570 thousand people took part in the pre-election yesterday, and this 570 thousand people, who, by the way, are certainly going to exceed the participation of 600 thousand people today, gave a clear verdict on the performance of the Hungarian government. Because the crowded lines tell me they're rejecting the economic policy you represent. They reject the single-key tax, reject the 27% VAT of most basic foods, because they know and feel on their own skin that this is high VAT, so the excessive rate of consumption taxes is a terrible burden for the less affluent. They know that in the case of a multi-key tax, as we have already presented in our proposal, more money would be left in their pockets on payday than it is now. I think that these crowded lines clearly reject the thefts carried out through overpriced public procurements that we have seen at the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. These lines clearly reject Paks II, the related contract with Russia. These crowded lines clearly reject the key government investments that you have created by circumventing all existing legislation. It can be bypassed, opaque, uncontrollable to citizens. That's how the City Park could be destroyed, but that's how the castle was taken. I would like to point out that in the event of a change of government, the Carmelite monastery will be returned to the people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Carmelites?]] The Karmelite monastery must be returned to the people, filled with cultural content, and I firmly believe that this is what people have said. But I also think that we can talk about your social policy, which was once again a very bad test. People have expressed a clear opinion that low pay for law enforcement workers is unacceptable to them. They feel exactly what they're feeling today, that there are no police patrols on the street. There are no police patrols on the street because a sober-minded person does not take the risk that, by the way, comes with the patrol job for a net salary of 160-180 thousand forints that you provide them. But it's equally unacceptable for these crowded people to pay teachers that you don't appreciate our teachers in any way, and it's most likely on their salary. It's unacceptable for them to get the Golden Bull out of the National Basics because it's against your ideology. It is unacceptable for these people to fail those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. I know what the answer will be: stop Gyurcsány, stop Soros, stop Christmas, stop Brussels [[András Tállai: Stop Csárdi!]] Now God knows who's trying to stop everyone, and I also know they're gonna come up with a number higher than pre-election. I just want to make a difference to your attention that your participation in the primary can be verified, while your signatures were only seen by you or by you. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-28-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer.
u2021-09-28-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What's your party's name again? Maybe Politics is different. What are you proud of now? That your party would like to take the same policy with the forces before 2010. You have just spoken, honourable Member, and you have said proudly that what is the name of our party is denied, and you are extremely proud of that because you have given up any change in policy. Only one thing they did after two or three choices of failure was to say that we would stand behind Ferenc Gyurcsány or behind the Gyurcsány couple, and in the same system, we would be part of the world before 2010's attempt to return, and they would be part of this power system. They've given up what's their party's name. I don't even know why they still have that name, that it can be different from Politics, because we also joined Ferenc Gyurcsány, perhaps that would be a better name for your policy or. The world pre- 2010 in Hungary! But there may be many like it, honourable Member. By taking part in the pre-election you've organized, which is mostly just a Gyurcsány show, and they don't like the government, obviously everyone counts rationally. [[9.20]] So that the core of the left-wing voting camp does not like the right-wing government, there is nothing new about that. Believe me, those of you who sign the, stop, Gyurcsány! Stop, Christmas! They don't particularly like Ference Gyurcsány or Gergely Christmas. Of course, you may live in a bubble and communicate only with your own core base, and you can see that everyone is criticizing the government, but don't draw a far-reaching conclusion from that. Obviously, the regulars on both sides are less fond of the other side. What were you talking about? Very frightening things, Your Honour. He outlined very frightening things about what you, Ferenc Gyurcsány's team, are up to in Hungary if you win. He said that the personal income tax system will be transformed and there will be a multi-key tax in Hungary. It's multi-key right now, because the number of dependents says it's multi-key. The more children you care for, the lower the personal income tax that you pay. But you're thinking about a tax that's been written down in the previous elections, with a tax rate of up to 30-40 percent, the current 15 percent, or a three-year-old family with average earnings, against zero percent. You said that once around 2002 and we saw that after that the families were only worse off because they had taken away the family benefits. It is extremely alarming that they would return to the world before 2010 in terms of VAT. We remember that in 2006 Ferenc Gyurcsány announced a five-year tax reduction programme, which became that he raised VAT by 5 percent after the election. We don't want to go back to this world. Public procurement. Honourable Member, we do not wish to return to the world of nocical boxes, which you are now trying to promote. Do we want them to re-create a tunnel into a dungeon? Would you like to build a valley bridge between non-existent mountains? Would you like to have investments such as the 4 metro, where even OLAF has said that one third of the money has been stolen or cheated from this investment? OLAF, your great ally, has said that the biggest investment you have made during your own period has brought with it the greatest corruption, honourable Member. Talking about City Park like that? Have you been outside, Your Honour? We were out this summer, my wife and I took the kids out to play in the playground there. You can't imagine how many kids were there and how much fun you had. And there's finally a cultured bathroom where you can either diapers or go out when you're busy, and there's a cultural opportunity to eat. And people, let's just say, they don't have to spend more hours there with their children in civilized form, but they have all the equipment and talent they need to be culturally, qualitatively, with a high standard. And there's a great playground. If you go to Western Europe, you will have to pay quite a few euros to go to one of these, and here you will be free of charge to all Hungarians, honourable Member. Look around. I wouldn't call this a fuck-up at all, I apologize for saying such a phrase, but I repeat you, but there is indeed a European-level park development in Hungary. What you said about the Castle, I think, is incomprehensible, honourable Member. Finally, he returns to his historic beauty, as if the communist period had not been, and the bombings of World War II were corrected many, many decades later. You refuse to do so, Your Honour. The fact that you're insulting the police here in Parliament is most definitely rejected. The police are doing their job professionally, and in recognition of that, they will receive six months' worth of gun money. In the case of teachers, I think it would be better for the left to remain silent, because there has not been a government in Hungary since the change of regime, only the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány, which you have just pushed forward, when they took the wages from teachers and reduced the wages of teachers. There hasn't been a time when 15,000 teachers were put on the street. May God save us from these times coming back. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-28-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Mr László Varga, notary, representative of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Indeed, today is the last day of the opposition primary in Hungary. I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who has participated in the organisation and conduct of the pre-election, every voter who has thought throughout the country to take part in the pre-election and to those who will take part today. It is clear that this innovation, which is unprecedented in Hungarian political history, is highly involved and is expected to exceed 8 percent of the participation in the primary. I consider this turnout to be a great success. Let me present to you as an example that in the last Democratic Pre-election Pre-election elections in the United States, about 10 percent of voters took part in the presidential elections. Compared to this, I think that for the first time, 8 percent of the voters' participation in Hungary is a success. I would suggest to you, by the way, that you choose your candidates with similar innovations. I think it would be much better for you, for your support and for your voters, if it weren't for the Buda Castle to decide who would start in each district in your colours, but, if so, to leave it to the people who live there. Obviously, no one disputes that one side and the other has the hard core, as the Secretary of State Rétvári said, who would give an opinion on similar issues, even on your political side. One word, as one hundred, today is the last day, and I would ask everyone, if they still wish to give an opinion in 106 districts and the candidate for Prime Minister, to go and vote during today, or even during the evening period online. On behalf of myself and my party, I can say that we support the nomination of Prime Minister Gergely Christmas. Several couples do that, besides us. It's no coincidence, because we consider him an integrative personality, a common denominator who can unite those who want to change, be they right-wing, liberals or left-wing voters. I think that we need more common denominators across the country, and he can show that. In the interest of 99 percent, he wishes to politicalise, for this purpose his programme was born, and the parties supporting him, both the LMP, the Dialogue and the MSZP, are politicalising for this purpose. This policy for 99 percent is reflected in both the health, education, the social sphere, agriculture and the local government. In this respect, it is necessary to give back to the municipalities the resources that give them the leeway, the resources that you have taken away from the settlements in the last 11 years and for the most part in the past one and a half to two years. And by taking these resources away from the settlements, they took the resources from the people. Because now that the car tax has been completely removed from the settlements, it is missing from the road renovation. The fact that the business tax has not been fully compensated is very lacking, for example, in the operation of the city in Miskolc. Obviously, if the resources were properly available, if a significant part of the resources had not been taken away, the parks in the city would be better maintained and the public services would operate better and the grass would be mowing more often in certain areas. The biggest cut of blood, perhaps, is what the citizens of Miskolc feel most about your activities, the problem of public transport. Although you said that you would maintain public transport's public support, it was taken away from the Miskolcs. They took 500 million forints, and this is felt because less buses and less trams can walk like this. Give me back this support! We will return all resources to the municipalities, but public support for public transport is typically a source that cannot wait for the change of government, which will happen. I have tabled a motion on this, I have invited Katalin Csöbör and György Hubay, two representatives of Fidesz in Miskolc, to sign this motion. I'm waiting for your signature. I can wait a day or two for the finalization. The developments will be carried out with the programme for the development of Miskolc 2030, after the change of government, and I will re-submit the proposals that I have proposed, and they can become a reality. I wish to work here in the next term for the citizens of Miskolc, Borsod and Diósgyőr. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-09-28-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2021-09-28-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It would be possible for me to say, here in Parliament, at least from the government side, why we should be dealing with the campaign speeches of the left-wing parties, because apparently it is the last day of what we call the pre-election, and therefore you are giving one final speech. But he did say a few things that I'd like to respond to. [[9.30]] As far as participation figures are concerned, I think that everything that strengthens Hungarian democracy is good. But speaking of numbers, I can't go without saying that there have been more people involved in any of the consultations over the past period than there has been in this pre-election. When it came to this, you were always attacking the participation data, that's the thing, when it comes to numbers. And then let us not talk about the referendum, the quota referendum, and let us not talk about it, because it is not the place for much more people to sign the petition against the return of Ferenc Gyurcsány. It is also clear from your speech that in recent months you have not dealt with anything but internal violence and pre-election. Nothing else. You weren't interested in the fight against the epidemic, and you weren't interested in working together on economic regeneration, and you didn't take any part in it. Just to say a few of the government's decisions, because the government was working along the way. We have extended the credit moratorium for the groups concerned. As far as pensions are concerned, we have just come up with a pension premium of more than HUF 50,000 this year, because the economy has restarted and there is a pension supplement, and we would like to rebuild the 13th month pension, which is why we are fighting while you are working on the pre-election. There will also be a family tax refund, which alone means hundreds of thousands of HUF tax refunds for nearly two million Hungarian families while you dealt with the pre-election. Six months of gun money for law enforcement workers. Congressman Csárdi no longer allows himself the luxury of hearing the answers. He brought up law enforcement, and they're getting six months' worth of money at the beginning of next year. And if you're suggesting that you don't like doing your job because it's dangerous, it's because Budapest's public safety has deteriorated over the past period, and everyone knows it. To tell you one more thing, people under the age of 25 get tax exemptions from January next year. It's a measure that you didn't even think about, how could it have come to your mind when you were dealing with the pre-election? As for the question of Miskolc, I hear you keep saying that the municipalities will not receive any support. I myself have been to Miskolc several times, and I can tell you that unemployment in this region has fallen from 17 percent to 5 percent during the current governance. You can't say nothing to that. If we look at what was the main topic of the 2010 campaign, for example, job creation. You laughed at us when we said we were going to create a million new jobs. In Miskolc, this effort means that unemployment has fallen to 5 percent, which is still five more than ideal. You know as well as I do that you know that there are very serious public resources available to build the Y Bridge. You know very well that the expressway will be built all the way to the border, which will map Miskolc's economy even more, creating new jobs. And to talk about tourism, this government has also provided billions of dollars in support of the construction of the new adventure bath, which, by the way, is not the only one in the queue. So when you claim that there is no support from the government, any left-wing settlement or city can be classified for a long time as disproved examples. If I look at the support of the municipalities in general, they will receive more support this year than last year, despite the months of the epidemic. As far as the Christmas Gregory movement is concerned, the fact that, while referring to 99 percent, this movement was registered in a villa so much. The question is rightfully raised: what is the achievement that makes Gergely Christmas think that she is qualified as a candidate for Prime Minister. He doesn't have the ability to decide at first, he's in the shadow of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and if we look at Budapest as its leadership, then everyone can see that the city, families, people trying to work, family mothers spend hours standing in traffic, public safety getting worse, and public cleanliness getting worse. They prove that in one year they can destroy what millions of Hungarians have built in ten years. We're not gonna let them do this to the country. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-28-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-28-13	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to speak about the democratic functioning of the State Organisation in relation to the personal composition of the Media Council. The primary task of the Media Council is to ensure the functioning of the democratic public in the media, create and maintain a balance between the interests of the public and the media. These interests relate to the possibility of appropriate information from the public's side, protection against illegal content, and choice between a wide variety of content. The Media Council shall also, if necessary, carry out its official tasks to prevent any conflicting market concentration. Its important task is to decide on the allocation of radio and television spectrum assets available in Hungary. By the way, he distributed 13 billion HUF between 2011 and 19 through his support programme. With this list, I wanted to show the weight of the Media Council. However, I would like to add to two of your tasks. Protection against illegal content: this is very necessary, since, as an example, Jobbik has won 180 press redress lawsuits in court against Fidesz media since 2018, unfortunately, public service television should also be included. I commend to them the words of Ferenc Deák about the only paragraph of the press law he deems necessary: you must not lie. The second is to prevent illegal market concentration. Well, if there's a market concentration, KESMA, Central European Press and Media Foundation, it only includes 408 printed press products. The legality of this concentration could not be investigated by the Media Council because the government classified the transaction as of national strategic importance. The President and four members of the College shall be elected by Parliament for nine years, with two-thirds of the votes of the Members present. In December 2019 the Media Council's new body stood up only from pro-government delegates for nine years. I note that in the case of the predecessor of the Media Council, the ORTT, the National Radio and Television Board, the law guaranteed that the candidates of all parliamentary factions could participate in the work of the panel. Now a new member should be elected to replace the recently deceased Ágnes Hankiss member of the Parliament. Together, the opposition proposed Dr. Máté Silhavy, whose professional skills and experience are no excuses because he has been a member of the Board of the Public Service Foundation for 11 years. The pro-government candidates did not support the nomination, but did not put forward a candidate in this first round. Once again, they will be convened to be able to elect their members by two thirds, i.e. the panel of the President and the four members will continue to consist exclusively of pro-government candidates. This is a mockery of one-party overpower and democracy. 49.3 percent of the voters voted on the list of the governing party, but let's take the 67 percent mandate, but this does not base this total exclusivity. Why did I give my speech the title of democratic operation of the State Organisation? Because the media, especially the XXI. It is so important in the century that many even consider it an autonomous form of power, and its one-party supervision threatens democracy. Of course, some people have their first priority in protecting it. The President of the Republic of Hungary is the Head of State of Hungary, who expresses the unity of the nation and guards the democratic functioning of the State Organisation. Of course, because of the separation of powers, the head of state is not legally involved in the parliamentary process, and this is correct, but with sufficient authority, it would have the weight and the right to speak in itself, as it is the task of ensuring the democratic functioning of the state organisation. Thank you so much for listening. [[9.40]]
u2021-09-28-14	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2021-09-28-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I'd like to respond briefly. This is not the first time we have been debating the Media Council, practically since 2010, since it was first discussed in the European Parliament. If I recall correctly, you were still a MEP in these debates. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this new media regulation has made a point for such legislation. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] in which parties have actually delegated members to the audit bodies. But the story doesn't stop here, because according to previous regulations, beyond the fact that parties delegated members, even civilians delegated, but they also delegated politicians. I'll give you an example. The association Szimbiosis from Szeged called István Ujhelyi [[Showing subpoena:]] He delegated a civilian to the audit board, the Symbiosis Environmental Association. Now, that was the deceitful system, that was the deceitful legislation, the given space for untidy political pressure, and the new legislation ended it. If I can approach this from another place: the Hungarian media is diverse, and I tell you that it has never been so diverse, which means, and that is the most important thing, that everyone can find media suitable for their taste, world view, and interest. If you look at the number of portals, for example, how many Internet portals there are, because the Internet is growing, the number of them is increasing. This in itself increases the strength and diversity of the public, as does the diversity of community media. So quite simply, when you refer to an old practice, you cry back a time when, with a slight exaggeration, the program Sunrise was the Hungarian public publicity. When you did not pursue this strategy with Jobbik, you experienced the drawbacks, disadvantages and negative consequences of this every day. Everyone has their publicity now. As far as Jobbik's relationship with the public is concerned, he tells us everything about it, that Jobbik-near psychics remember Hitler's birthday, and make amazing untruths day by day. [[Pointing towards the pro-government benches.]] And the reason why people here often don't start lawsuits is because they'd be out of their time at work, that's the case. [[He's showing me around the benches.]] So everyone here in Parliament could tell us about the injustices we're experiencing, but we don't consider it our job to deal with it all day long. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And unlike you, I don't think it's my job to classify editorial work in addition to outstanding cases for a day. Now, even with regard to public relations, I cannot go without saying that they are trying not only to pressure the Media Council from the left, but also the editorials. [[He's pointing towards the pro-government benches.]] It wasn't the right-wing politicians who broke into a TV station demanding to read content they liked. [[He's pointing at himself.]] It's not our politicians threatening to ban right-wing journalists, it's one of your allies, and it's not a mere politician, it's a local politician, it's a party president. They're hosting reporters at the events. One of your presidential candidates boycotted psychics, and then they complain about why they don't get more publicity with the same momentum. With the same momentum! And when you get questions, you start judging the journalist with the harshest words. And the thing is, everyone will do it: your party president will do it, and Gergely Christmas will do it, instead of giving honest answers to questions. So when we talk about public relations, the fact is that right-wing parties and government parties never cross the line you are crossing every day. By the way, if it is not about our party political debates, it would be nice to talk about other aspects of the public, that they are large multi-enterprises, but perhaps that is not the right word, how large digital companies influence the public, how they are able to boycott content, whether on the right or on the left, that we have no chance, either from government or left-wing opposition, to do anything about it. When it comes to publicity, I think we should raise our voice against such monopolistic efforts. I'm sure that if there weren't an election campaign, you might agree on this, but I don't have any great illusions, and I don't think we can count on you in the next few months. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-28-16	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. The future, demographic renewal and sustainability of our nation lies in strengthening families. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-17	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Work and family are a common pillar of the future of our country and Europe. From this fundamental point of view, the family is the common denominator that we need to protect with the utmost care, because the future of our country depends on how we preserve our families. We must say that society is based on family; therefore, the family is the pillar of the essence of social policy. We must protect the family and thus the right to life itself. It is wonderful that Hungary could host the fourth demographic summit on these issues last week. I would also like to congratulate Minister Katalin Novák, who was the main organizer of this conference. Ladies and Gentlemen, It was also clear at the conference that the idea that the issue of having children would be purely private was narrow. Having children is not only a family joy and a family investment, but also a way to the future, a way to the growth of the nation, a way to the sustainability of the social market economy. It is therefore the duty of all governments to help families to have as many children as they want from the heart and what they can raise in honor. This is the basis for Fidesz-KDNP's governance; we care about every family and every child. We believe that the state should help start a family and make families well. Therefore, our family policy has five pillars. On the one hand, that having a child is not a financial disadvantage for the family, but, on the contrary, an explicit financial advantage; on the other hand, that we help families to own a home; on the third, that we base our family policy on mothers; on a fourth, that we turn the whole country into family-friendly; and, on the other hand, that we protect the family's institution and children with the means of law. Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to achieve this, we have introduced a comprehensive, proportionate and fair tax system that is increasingly supporting work and families, which serves national policy as well as the economic development of our country. In Europe, our country uses 5 percent of GDP for family support. We are not yet there, ladies and gentlemen, where we would like to be, we are halfway down the road, but we can say that we already know the direction. Ladies and Gentlemen, The biggest problem in Western Europe is that family support is treated as a taboo and only deals with how migration can compensate for the deficit caused by falling birth numbers. However, they do not ask the real question, what is the cause of the decline in the population. Today, Europe is the continent of empty cradles. We do not want to solve this problem with migration, but with Hungarian children, as well as through greater and more targeted support for families raising children. Today we wish the young Hungarians and Hungarian families a safe future; we believe that they are the golden reserve of our nation. [[9.50]] Remember, those who let go of their families, sons and young ones lose their future. However, we want to win Hungary's future, which is why we support families in creating homes and young people in starting families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-28-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary.
u2021-09-28-19	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[His mic's starting to buzz.]]
u2021-09-28-20	Is the card in? [[Robert Szigó: Yes.]] Then we need some help. Just a moment, please. They're taking the mike right now. [[Róbert Zsigo is placed in front of a hand mike.]] Thank you. Here.
u2021-09-28-21	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Budapest Demographic Summit was held for the fourth time between 23 and 24 September, with more than 70 performers from 17 countries around the world. Every two years since 2015, the Budapest Demographic Summit is the forum where politicians, church leaders, representatives of science, the media and the corporate sector discuss the most important issues affecting families. Our aim was to create a framework for dialogue and to speak clearly about families and the role of families in the 21st century. In the 20th century, as in the era of globalisation, migrations and pandemics, the greatest need would be to strengthen our commitment to our traditional values. We are well aware that the family community is one of the most important areas of value transfer, so the protection of the family comes both from Christian values and contributes to the protection of the Christian way of life. What we want is for the family not to be seen as a kind of deterrent, but as a value, which determines our decisions, and that also determines our position in the debates. These two days have proved that the discussion about families is important. Ladies and gentlemen, The main topic of this year's event was the relationship between sustainability and family. In today's public discourse, we often hear about sustainable development, sustainable growth or environmental sustainability. We, who consider the family to be the most important basic unit of the community, still have a lack of feeling, as there is little mention of the role of childbearing in the debate on sustainability. Unfortunately, many people put family formation on the account of having children, in order to make environmental challenges worse, there are environmentalists who advise us not to have children and thus protect the planet. But if we did, in the struggle for sustainability, for our planet, we'd end up with no one to save the future. We know that family is not the problem, but the solution. Dear House, Among other things, there was an agreement between Heads of State or Government, in which it was said that support for families is of paramount importance, that demographic problems can be solved through family support, and that EU funds should also be supported to address demographic challenges. In addition, we have concluded a ministerial agreement with eight EU countries. It has been extremely instructive about how many good practices exist in the world to support families and how we can always learn from each other. We can say that the conference was a real demonstration of the power of the pro-family forces, because it was attended not only by the leaders of Central and Eastern Europe, but also by Mike Pence, former vice-president of the United States, who acknowledged the results of Hungarian family policy. Dear Parliament, We can say that families can't be overwritten, there's no alternative to the family. The only solution to population loss is if the state helps families to have children, to start a family. Since 2010, we have supported families with all possible means and with a number of measures. We help to have children by giving no one life - style advice, we simply provide the framework and conditions to ensure that if a couple wants to have children, there is no financial or other obstacle. The results achieved so far can give rise to confidence. Compared to 2010, as Mr President said next year, the amount we use to support families is almost tripled, which represents almost 5 percent of GDP, a unique European comparison. Since 2010, we have had the best increase in fertility rates in Europe. We have had the best number of marriages in the European Union since 2010, with six decades of divorce. Dear Parliament, This is why next year's election is important, because if we go off the road, as it has already happened in 2002-2010, then everything that the civil government has built together with the Hungarian families in the area of family support can be destroyed to the ground in the last 10-12 years. We will not let them take away the future of our families and our children again. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-28-22	Thank you, Mr. Róbert Zsigó State Secretary. At the same time, Ms Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, spoke before the agenda, with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-09-28-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is a family-friendly country, as we have heard from the speech before the previous agenda, and it protects children in particular through its laws. This year, on 15 June 2021, we adopted a bill amending certain laws on stricter action against pedophile offenders and the protection of children. The bill was adopted by a large majority by the Hungarian Parliament, as, in addition to the support of the ruling parties, it was supported by the opposition party with the largest political group. With 157 votes in favour, therefore, there was great support for tightening up child protection laws. But it was only a few days before the attack began. The politicians of Brussels have once again taken a dishonest role. By not reading the text of the law, they shouted homophobia and exclusion, not knowing its substance. The conductor of the background power waved, and the campaign of hatred began. In addition to the politicians in Brussels, Gyurcsány's people joined us at home, and they also began to lie in the morning and at night and at night, because they already have a routine in this, right? The law of the Hungarian Parliament adopted by a large majority is a law on child protection. In this law, we dealt with the protection of children, protecting the interests of underage children. It's not about how adults live their lives and what sexual habits they have. But let's see what the law is about. Let me just point out a few points: stricter punishments for crimes against children; pedophile registration, available from 1 February next year; exclusion of conditional release in certain circumstances; propaganda by LGBTQ in kindergartens and schools, cannot advertise and promote the ideas of LGBTQ. But then let us also see what this law does not say: it does not speak of the sexual habits of adults, it is not about the privacy of homosexuals, it is not about defining good and bad as subjective concepts, so this law cannot be homophobic or exclusional. Ladies and gentlemen, The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union clearly states that parents have the right to provide their children with education in accordance with their religious, philosophical or pedagogical beliefs and must be respected in accordance with the national laws governing the exercise of these rights and freedoms. Now, does Brussels go against the principles clearly set out in its own charter? Because that's what's happening. [[10.00]] It is important that the Hungarian government does not allow the concept of family to be relativized, in which we have recently received serious confirmation when the Holy Father expressed his opinion during his visit to Hungary in September that the family is made up of a mother, a father and children, and a point. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of Hungary also requested the opinion of the Hungarian people in the form of a national consultation. 97 percent of those who have completed the consultation say it is right not to allow LGBTQ propaganda into kindergartens and schools. Ladies and gentlemen, Gyurcsány and András Fekete-Győr, one of the candidates for Prime Minister of opposition cooperation, announced that if they win, they will abolish the passes containing a number of Btk. tightening of the law adopted in June and the creation of a pedophile register. Now, the aim of the left-wing liberal opposition is now quite clear. [[Zoltán Balczó: We voted in favour!]] protecting our children does not matter to them as soon as they can, they will serve the needs of liberal madmen. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-28-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. Bence Rétvári responds on behalf of the government.
u2021-09-28-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In particular, a lot of people referred to the Bundestag, the German Parliament, yesterday, but a quote never came up. Allow me to quote the words of Sven Tritschler, a representative of the CDU, but who publicly calls himself a homosexual. In contrast to many, I have read the said law, and I can only say that I am pleased, indeed, that in Hungary parents will be entrusted with raising children and not some crazy genderideologists. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The congressman continues: "As a homosexual, I challenge myself to be represented by some pseudoscientists, according to whom 173 genders exist. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thus continued the representative of the homosexual Bundestag:.I am grateful to Viktor Orbán for closing the Balkan route in 2015 and slowing down the flooding of our country with Islamists, because he has done much more for the sexual diversity of Germany and Europe than all the brave flags for free. He said this to his own left-wing and liberal fellow Members. So, honourable Members, honourable Members, a truly involved, homosexual German Member who read this law found nothing like those who did not read it, only in the general hysteria against Hungary, they always tried to attack Hungary again to motivate their allies in Hungary. Because let's not forget: all such actions that have taken place against Hungary over the past ten years start from the fact that the Hungarian left is deliberately spreading untruths and false news about Hungary abroad, and obviously, who speaks English and Dutch and French, will not be able to read the Hungarian law, who can read it, because Hungarian Members of Parliament, Hungarian politicians, Hungarian MEPs, are deliberately distorting it abroad, so that they can destroy their country and their country. This is unacceptable, but what we see is that this is done in a professional way, this law is just one of the ones that were also being used for this. What is this bill about? As you said, Congresswoman, it's not about anything that affects the adult world, it's about the parent raising his child, not strangers. How is it possible for a stranger to have more rights to have sex with a child than parents? How is it possible for a civil society organisation to decide to raise a child against the idea and world view of parents, without even having to ask for the consent of parents, or even to inform parents that now a civil society organisation that has nothing to do with the child has to do with it, will go up there and overrule it in kindergarten and elementary school? We all know that a kindergarten child is extremely impressionable, and it is obviously important that the parents hold the children in their hands. What would happen if other organisations, not LGBT organisations, wanted to shape the children of liberals in their image, how outraged would it be that this is the right of liberal families? How does anyone think that she knows better than parents how to raise a child? I do not want to see LGBT organizations that have been funded from Brussels many times into kindergartens and have children draw a picture of a non-transmutation operation or play with them that the little boy who wants to play swords should wear skirts and the like. We do not want any such situational exercise or sensitive occupation, because raising children is indeed the right and responsibility of parents. Here, in this law, it was only minors, not adults. The left is doing nothing but detracting from this danger, just as it has been said in the case of migration. We saw that in 2010 the kindergarten education programme was also rewritten, precisely in order not to have the habit of playing little boys with little boys' toys, and little girls with girls, the Background Society, as a Soros organization, said with support from the European Commission, what kind of education should be. The new target of class excursions should be an LGBTQ organization, geography education should learn about the geographical location of LGBT people, singing, drawing, art history to show their world's appearance in the pictures, media knowledge and visual culture should continue to analyse programmes and films with homosexual themes in schools, watch movies about Pride, and a list of how these organisations are ready when the Left opens the doors of schools and kindergartens for them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-28-26	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on public law pending closure. The government referral is T/17147. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-09-28-27	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman and Speaker Woman! The Government of Hungary aims to ensure legal certainty and coherence between legislation. During the preparation of the bill, the government was driven by the intention to make practical and technical amendments to the legislation on the subject of public law, thus ensuring predictable legislation for the citizens of Hungary. As a response to practical problems, demonstrating a responsible procedure, in the interest of citizens, the government considered it necessary to amend the legislation under the bill. Dear House, Suffrage and electoral will have always been a priority for the government led by the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance. This is how we believe that these means of preserving democracy must be examined on an ongoing basis. On the basis of this, the State, acting with the care of a good host, also sought to remedy conflicts of interest with regard to the regulation of representatives of local governments. Dear House, Since the first free elections, the Hungarian electoral system has been characterised by a degree of democratic regulation that ensures in all respects the general, equal, secret and direct functioning of electoral rights for all voters. There has always been a fundamental social need for a voter to be sure that his vote can make a substantial contribution to the effectiveness of the elections. However, this social need may not always be fully met, for which sometimes it is enough that the procedural system does not respond up to the problems encountered in practice. Each provision of the proposal seeks to answer questions raised in previous electoral periods, while presenting current social needs. The provisions of the Act on Local Governments of Hungary, which are currently in force, impose on the appointment of a candidate who has not previously received a mandate, i.e. who has not started his mandate, conditions that make an unjustified distinction to candidates who have not previously received a mandate on the basis of his place on the compensation list. [[10.10]] In view of the above, the nominating body is also excluded if there is a candidate not yet on the list. As a result of the amendment, a candidate who does not receive his credentials may obtain his mandate without being placed at the last place on the list; therefore, he may also have the free possibility of notifying the nominating organisation, not linked to the order of the previous compensation list, in accordance with the law on the election of local government representatives and mayors. It was also appropriate to clarify one of the rules of conflict of interest contained in this Act. At present, the law prohibits the representative from simultaneously holding several municipal seats for other municipalities. At the same time, the metropolitan districts and the Metropolitan Municipality may be exempt from this rule because of their special situation. The current amendment follows from the current rules of procedure, i.e. that if the candidate in Budapest obtains a mandate from both the district compensatory list and the capital compensatory list, he is obliged to choose between these two posts within three days. In accordance with the requirements of legal certainty, however, it is also appropriate to state in particular that the above conflict of interest is independent of the fact that the acquisition of mandates for these two posts takes place at the same time after the election, or in the case of, for example, one post after another, in the case of a vacant seat. It follows from all this that the aim of the bill is primarily to ensure that the electoral will expressed in municipal elections can be enforced in compliance with the requirements of legal certainty and non-discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, The experience gained during the day-to-day exercise also brought to life the provisions to amend the Act on Parliament. On the basis of the law applicable to civil servants of Parliament, the Public Service Officers Act provides for a fixed period of government service if the law does not otherwise provide only for the replacement of a permanently absent government official or for the performance of a task which may occasionally be necessary or for the performance of a permanent external service. However, the law to be amended does not allow a derogation from that rule in respect of the Secretariat of the National Security Committee, where, in view of the fact that its President may at all times only be an opposition representative, the staff of the Secretariat should be appointed for a fixed period until the end of that term. In view of this, it is necessary to ensure the regularity of the relationship between parliamentary civil servants employed in the secretariat of the National Security Committee and to extend the scope of cases giving reasons for deviation from the general rule. Dear House, The proposals appearing in the rest of the bill are intended to support the work of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, in order to provide for the transfer of three real estate and related public tasks. The National Museum and Institute of Theatre History, currently a member institution of the Petőfi Literature Museum, in short: OSZMI, one of its primary tasks is to support the resuscitation of theatre theoretical activity and to introduce new services that meet the challenges of the age along with theatre-centred thinking. Stabilising the professional and economic functioning of Hungarian public collections is a priority task, the conditions of which need to be examined continuously for all museum institutions. As a result, in the case of OSMI, the government concluded that the most optimal way of performing its professional activities is under the auspices of the Foundation for Theatre and Film Arts. It is therefore appropriate to transfer the property and property in its use, the staff employed by OSMI and the public mission it performs to the Foundation for Theatre and Film Arts, which serves the interests of both the museum and the Foundation. The foundational operation helps the OSMI to play a significant role in the promotion of Hungarian theatre vocational training and sectoral dialogue by reviving the previous rapporteur system and strengthening the institutional functions, thus becoming an indispensable actor in the educational and scientific life of theatre history. Dear Parliament, With this bill, in addition to technical and grammatical clarifications, in the case of the legislation described, the government has also tried to translate the regulatory needs that have arisen in practice into the language of codification. I would ask the Parliament to support the bill in the light of the considerations expressed. Thank you, Mr President, for your opportunity and your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-28-28	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-09-28-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As we have heard in the Minister of State's exposé, the bill before us contains on the one hand the codification of certain laws on public law, and on the other hand it clarifies the rules on the mandate of municipal representatives in order to make the electors' will expressed in municipal elections more effective. To this end, the proposal would amend the law on the election of local government representatives and mayors and the law on the local governments of Hungary as follows. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the applicable rules of the municipal law, the representative of the municipality and the non-member of the committee of the body of representatives shall not engage in any activity which may undermine the public confidence necessary for the performance of their duties, nor shall it be a representative of any other municipal authority. Therefore, this conflict of interest rule only prohibits the representative from simultaneously occupying several municipal representatives in relation to other local authorities. However, the relationship between the municipal mandate of the district and the municipal mandate of the capital is not regulated. In the light of the specific legal status of the Metropolitan Municipality, it is necessary to provide for rules of conflict of interest for the municipal representative elected in the metropolitan district and in the capital. In order to remedy this, the proposal provides that if you obtain a mandate in Budapest from a candidate's metropolitan district compensatory list and from the capital's compensatory list, you must state which one you will accept. As a result of the amendment, it would therefore be stated as a rule of conflict of interest that a person cannot be a municipal representative of the metropolitan district at the same time, as well as a representative of the metropolitan municipality, if he obtained both his mandates from a compensatory list. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill would also provide an opportunity for the National Security Committee of Parliament to establish a fixed-term public service relationship to assist the committee president. By amending the Parliamentary Act, a derogation from the rules of the Public Service Officers Act for the establishment of a fixed-term public service relationship will be extended, extending it to the Chairman of the Standing Committee on National Security. On the basis of the amendment, a fixed-term public service relationship may also be established to assist the chairman of this committee, subject to the term of office of the chairman of the committee, in the context of repeated fixed-term appointments. Dear House, The draft includes a proposal for the National Theatre History Museum and Institute to continue operating in the future within the framework of the Theatre and Film Art Foundation. [[10.20]] To this end, it is necessary to hand over the National Theatre History Museum and Institute to the Foundation for Real Estates in order to perform the public tasks effectively. The properties will continue to be used to accommodate the institute. Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr. State Secretary said, the National Theatre History Museum and Institute, founded in 1952, has been a member institution of the Petőfi Literary Museum since 2017. Several European universities have a smaller or larger museum with their own history, the transfer of the National Theatre History Museum and Institute can lead to significant progress in making the institution an important organizing place for the living and functioning theatre life besides the museum of acting and acting. The transfer of property in the use of the National Theatre History Museum and Institute to the Foundation can also make a significant contribution to the significant involvement of the National Theatre History Museum and Institute in educational and scientific activities related to theatre history. The properties to be presented with this proposal would continue to serve the placement of the National Theatre History Museum and Institute, and the transfer of the Foundation's public service mission to operate the National Theatre History Museum and Institute would ensure that they are transferred to the property of the Foundation. Dear Parliament, Given that the proposal before us includes several forward-looking amendments, which aim to ensure that the will of voters is more effective in meeting the requirement of legal certainty and, on the other hand, to achieve a higher professional, theatre-centred leadership for the National Theatre History Museum and Institute, the Fidesz Group will support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-28-30	Thank you very much, Congressman Charles Becsó. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2021-09-28-31	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would ignore the fact that as a third speech, the reading of these paragraphs and its contents should be repeated, so allow me to briefly describe what kind of genre this so-called salad law is, because we often misappreciate using this category. In the event that a bill amends a lot of different laws, it is not a salad law in its content if these amendments serve a regulatory purpose and need to be amended to do so. However, this is indeed a salad law, similar to that, let me give you an example when in a final vote a Member has the push of a button to decide whether to authorise or prohibit AC fishing and to authorise or prohibit surrogacy. So it is absurd that, in this case, I am not going to read what Mr Secretary of State has described in detail how many different, unrelated laws he amends. So I have to have the same opinion about the amendment of the local municipal electoral law as I do about the asset allocation of the public trust fund, as I have a final vote. It's a simple matter for pro-government representatives, because they assume that what the government is proposing, I vote in favour. It was not always the case, and between 98 and 2002 there were several times that the proposal submitted did not become a law; for example, the general use of property tax did not become a law. By the way, it was then that interpellation was voted off by the government. Now you don't have a problem with that. I'll tell you why the Jobbik can vote no. Because there is one of these amendments that we consider to be very important, which reaffirms the so-called higher education model change by providing wealth to the University of Theatre and Film Arts. I do not want to reopen this whole debate, but I will ask you one question in this regard, which I heard in a close of State Secretary in this case. It has been said that in Hungary, the intellectual potential of higher education institutions and the operating model are capable of bringing these institutions to the forefront of the world; the only thing missing is that the funds, the money, said in the bill that actually provides significant amounts of money to these KEKVAs for years in advance, these public-service trust foundations. No one has been able to answer to me why the state itself cannot provide this source to the institution, why it is necessary to build such a feudal fiefial system with these KEKVAs, where the members will remain members as long as they live, and if they are new, they will determine who they will be. It's a feudal system. I remember the time when it was said that the state was a bad farmer, everything must be taken from the state. This was after 90 the SZDSZ's main range: the state is a bad farmer, it should not be entrusted with anything. We saw the consequences. So I have justified this because we reject this change in the higher education system and the change of model, and that is why we will ultimately vote against this salad law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2021-09-28-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-09-28-33	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what has been said in Mr Miklós Soltész's exposé and what my fellow Member, Mr Károly Becsó, has said, and I would therefore like to draw the attention of this House only to the following. On the one hand, that the bill regulates the acquisition of mandates for self-government representatives who do not receive the mandate, so that a candidate who does not receive his credentials can obtain his mandate without being placed in the last place of the list; thus, he may also have the possibility to notify the nominating organisation of a free, non-prescription list. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Mötv. in effect 36. According to the conflict of interest rule laid down in paragraph 1 (f), local government representatives may not be representatives of other local governments, but may be exempt from this rule because of the special situation of the metropolitan districts and the Metropolitan Municipality. In order to preserve the electoral will and legal coherence, it is necessary to regulate the relationship between the municipal mandate of the district and the municipal mandate of the metropolitan government as follows: if the candidate in Budapest obtains a mandate from both the metropolitan district compensation list and the capital compensation list, he must choose between the two posts within three days. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thirdly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of the National Security Committee, the bill gives the chairman of the committee the opportunity to establish a fixed-term government service. Fourthly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in order to stabilise the professional and economic functioning of Hungarian public collections, it has become necessary to transfer the property of the National Theatre History Museum and Institute to the Foundation for Theatre and Film Arts. The public mission will enable the establishment of a single centre of theater training, which will, in a complex way, contribute both to the museum and theatre environment, to the effective education of students in the university of theatre arts. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill amending certain laws on public law. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[10.30]]
u2021-09-28-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-28-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is a salad law before us. We have often said that we do not consider this to be a fortunate legislative technique, because it is inherently the fact that a number of laws can actually be amended, as my fellow Member Balczó has said, that the legislator treats interrelated issues which regulate similar situations and relationships, and that it is clearly doing and handling this clearly in a package. Obviously, there has been a salad law that has changed several and more diverse relationships and laws. This is not so much, but it is very clear that there are also issues that are eligible or individual or, let me say, not one of the thousand most serious problems in the country. That's what I see in the election of local government representatives and mayors. With regard to the amendment of the local municipal law, Mr Secretary of State said this, many of my fellow Members before me, and obviously I do not see the issue of amending the parliamentary law as conflicting. However, we cannot support the provisions on the SFE, so to speak, on a principled basis. In the first place, this new structure in higher education, on which very serious wealth masses are being outsourced here, and what is worst, is that they appoint curatoriums to cement them; so I am not saying that every member of the board of trustees would be unprofessional in this sense, obviously there are a lot of professionals in these Boards, but there are also many party appointers on your part, and this issue, these curatoriums or the assets transferred, is being embedded in this way; the continuation of this is not eligible as appropriate. If we have not supported the original design and the amendments that have been made since then, we will not support this either. I only said my criticism of the salad laws again because there is obviously even content in this proposal that can be supported or considered technical, but obviously this political disagreement between us makes our voting behaviour clear. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-09-28-36	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2021-09-28-37	Thank you very much. Dear House, I have to start by saying that one of the reasons why we do not support this bill is how it came here before the Parliament. Let us separate this bill: there is a real public-law part in which the electoral law, the municipal law, and the Act on Parliament are amended. In this section, I have to say, typically, that if there are things that would require dialogue between parties, a search for consensus, then the laws on suffrage are like this, the laws on the functioning of Parliament are like this, but you do so unilaterally every time. They represent no consensus, no willingness to cooperate, no symbolism, no realization, but simply that you force your own will upon the various organisations of the state. We are still unable to accept this procedure, and I have listened to Mr Secretary of State's words with a humid eye as to how important it is for you to exercise your suffrage, but I have a long enough memory to remember that when you were thinking about restricting suffrage and entering the register with the same one-sided proposal, it is true that because of the protest, you have stopped. I must say, therefore, that this bill is not acceptable just because such proposals should only be submitted to Parliament after a substantive consultation, preferably with agreement. They would establish a common framework within which otherwise civilised political debates could be held, if you had the intention of having any civilised political debates at all. This is also sad in this particular case because these proposals are proposals which may even have a chance of reaching consensus or a situation close to consensus, if they had also listened to the views of opposition parties, if they could have been consulted on this, if it could have been discussed in substance. There are parts of the proposal that are indeed technical clarifications. The issue of mandate setting had to be resolved, and this was a debate. We do not think that this is the best solution, but we could have discussed what is the right solution in the case of municipal representatives' mandates and lists. This is what we consider restrictive, and in the case of the enforcement of the electoral will, it is an unnecessary obstacle that anyone who does not occupy his mandate in this way will not be able to return to the list or be selected from the list. We do not understand the reason for this, but this is an issue that can be discussed. You recall that, in the case of a Member of Parliament, there are 30 days to eliminate the conflict of interest. You do not need to speak about it immediately, or take over your mandate, and then you can state which of your conflicting positions of government and the position of your representatives you accept, which one you choose. There has been a case, I can say that I will not name it because of the pre-election campaign; I know a mayor and a Member of Parliament who has waited 30 days to resign. But here we agree on the need to make a clear rule, but I'm not sure that's exactly what it would have been worth discussing. The situation is similar with regard to the conflict of interest between the representatives of the metropolitan and district councils. Perhaps our fellow Members remember that this was a debate after the last parliamentary election, and it was clear that there was no clear regulation. At the same time, I think the argument you are making and the solution you are choosing is wrong, because you are saying that you can't be a regional councilman and a metropolitan representative from a list at the same time. There are usually two aspects. One is that there is a conflict of interest between the two posts. This is the case when the law does not allow two settlements to be represented at the same time, it is necessary to decide which settlements it considers important. The other argument may be that this is not possible because of the workload, and one person cannot perform both tasks at the same time. However, that this is not the case, that none of the arguments are valid, you provided the best evidence in 2014 when you changed the rules of the election of the City Council, since since then the mayors are the majority of the Metropolitan Assembly. If this regulation is adopted by Parliament, then the strange situation will arise that mayors are obliged to be members of the Metropolitan Assembly, but those elected in a district municipality may not be a metropolitan representative. It doesn't make any sense, let's face it. If we were to restore the directly elected Metropolitan Assembly, it would be worth thinking about establishing such conflict of interest rules. My good fellow Member wisely said, if I remember correctly, that he was special in the legal role of the Metropolitan Municipality in the municipal system. Because of this particular situation, there is no reason to say otherwise this kind of conflict of interest. But indeed, there was an unclear situation here: Budapest has a strange legal status, so it was not possible to know after the municipal election whether the other local government counted or not, so it is compatible or incompatible. We have to settle this issue, but we think it would make sense to do it in the opposite direction. Finally, with regard to the foundation of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, not the theatre museum itself, I'm not exactly saying your name is missing one thing: why; because they said that the government had examined it and thought it was good. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, How can I say this with caution? So, that's not a strong enough argument, and there's a suspicion that it's actually public money, small-scale oligarchs of public wealth, that's the distribution of wealth between new landlords; I could say that even worse, but I don't want it right now. So, the point is, you gave Attila Vidnyánszky a trust, gave another trust to Szilárd Demeter, and now you're stacking the property between the two. [[10.40]] There would be no obstacle to cooperation between a public collection and a university. This cooperation also existed between the former SZFE and this public collection. I don't know how that is in the current SZFE, but I have to say that this doesn't require the transfer of property ownership, doesn't require the transfer of property, but, of course, we shouldn't have created these foundations at all. Public collections and universities are not usually integrated, some of the universities have their own collections, but this is much more narrow, non-national collections, large public collections. There is no doubt that the present situation of the theatre museum is not soothing in addition to the Petőfi Literature Museum. It would have been worth doing a serious study on this, a serious impact assessment, and asking stakeholders, in particular, not only in the museum, but also in the wider profession, about the solution they consider appropriate in the theatre profession and in the public collection profession. There would be a better solution, but I agree with my fellow Member, László Varga, that since we consider this whole foundation to be wrong, we do not agree with it, we would like to end it, so the details are not so important. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-28-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a representative of the minority, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-28-39	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Sehr geehrter Herr Staatssekretär! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs über 17147, force field. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/17147. on a proposal for a law amending certain public law laws submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council! This bill deals, among other things, with the amendment of Act L of 2010 on the Election of Local Representatives and Mayors. This law is important for indigenous nationalities in Hungary because, in several cases, in cases not directly regulated by the national authorities, the legislator refers to the regulations applicable to local authorities. This is what József Szolga, a Croatian ethnic advocate, drew attention to here in Parliament in two cases. For the first time, T/15997. in the context of the bill on the amendment of Act I of 2021 on the control of the Corrovirus World Epidemic, submitted under the heading of Article 2021. CHAPTER IV In his speech on 29 October 2011 he explained: . The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 81. In the case of other maintainers, a maintenance decision, including a management mandate, application, self-management of nationalities, may be taken only with the agreement of the national minority self-government and with the request for an opinion. However, the cited Disaster Protection Act 46. Paragraph 4 further provision states that the President exercising municipal rights shall not take a position on the reorganisation, termination of a municipal institution, supply and service district if the service also affects the municipality. Management appointments, acceptance of educational and educational institutions, restructuring, modification of operating permits, taking into account the number of entries that have taken place, will take place during the period July to August. On the basis of the foregoing, we consider that, from the date of entry into force of the proposal, as of 22 May, this legal conflict should be resolved not only with regard to ethnic public education institutions but also with regard to ethnic cultural institutions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For the second time, Mr József Szolga, Croatian spokesperson for T/16367. in the context of the proposal for a directive on temporary emergency arrangements 2021. CHAPTER VI In his statement on the 1st of October, he indicated:. We interpret the provisions of the transitional rules relating to the smooth operation of the municipalities and to the smooth provision of their tasks in a way that is extended, given the fact that the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 153. In accordance with paragraphs 1 to 2 of the Act, where the law does not provide otherwise, the laws concerning local governments and mayoral offices shall apply to national governments and officials. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What exactly is this about? The government is 27/2021. By order of the Government, it declared an emergency by reference to Article 53 of the Fundamental Law, followed by Article 80/2021. By order of the Government, it decided to extend the scope of the emergency measures in relation to the emergency announced on 8 February 2021. CXXVIII of 2011 on disaster management and amending certain related laws. Law in short, Kat. Chapter V provides for disaster and emergency issues. The Kat. 46. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the mayor, the mayor and the chairman of the county assembly exercise the powers of the metropolitan and county assembly of the representative body of the local government in an emergency. The Kat. The reference to the provision of law restricts the exercise of powers when it states that, in so doing, it cannot take a position on the reorganisation, termination, supply and service areas of a municipal institution, if the service also affects the municipality. In the context of the above provisions, a circular signed by the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministers of State of the Ministry of the Interior supported the application of the law. He noted that in the event of an emergency, the body of representatives could not meet. The mayor may also, on behalf of the body of representatives, establish a regulation, take into account the necessity and proportionality of his decisions, the proper exercise of the law, and consider the consequences of delaying the decision. In our view, the restriction contained in the cited provision of the law, i.e.,, in this context, cannot take a position on the reorganisation, termination of a municipal institution, supply and service areas, if the service also affects the municipality. It is not a decision, but a resolution and an opinion. Based on the 2011 CLXXXIX on local authorities. Law Mötv. 42. §2 of the Act. This section contains the non-transferable powers of the body of representatives, of which point 11 provides that a resolution on the reorganisation, termination, supply and service areas of a municipal institution may not be transferred if the service also affects the municipality. It is clear from all of this that Kat. 46. Paragraph 4 of Section 4 does not allow the mayor to exercise the powers of resolution and opinion in an emergency, not the decision. This has led to a conflicting situation in the case of national minority self-governments where, for example, the adoption of the rights of the maintenance rights of a nationality public education institution or the appointment of the head of a national minority public education institution has been made possible by the regulation to the President of one national minority self-government, but the regulation has not allowed the other President of the national minority self-government to exercise the legal right of opinion and the powers of resolution. [[10.50]] The interpretation of the situation that, while responding to the request for an opinion within the time limit for its opinion by indicating that it is not entitled to exercise its right of opinion under the restriction in Kat., the person entitled to the decision may then legally take the decision to take over the institution or to appoint the head of the institution. This situation has caused major problems, procedural delays and legal uncertainty in the event of an emergency. As the pandemic situation improved, the government regulations cited and Kat. This problem has, fortunately, been resolved by the partial lifting of some of its provisions and the re-eligibility of the local government meetings. However, we would also like to draw the legislator's attention to the future avoidance of this anomaly if, unfortunately, the deterioration of the pandemic situation may require the re-introduction of stricter regulation. On this basis, I think that it is completely understandable and justified that, while the present bill does not mention the presidents and members of the minority self-governments, it is necessary to monitor all amendments to Act L of 2010 on the election of local self-government representatives and mayors, and to monitor it from a national point of view, so that we do not find ourselves in a similar situation. The bill also deals with the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. Amendment to Act No. I am happy to report to you that the Hungarian Government and Parliament's budget support will already make more than HUF 22 billion available to 13 indigenous nationalities in Hungary in 2022. Nearly one third of this significant amount, some HUF 6 billion, is spent on investments and renovations by beneficiaries, national self-governments and their reserved institutions, as well as local self-governments and their reserved institutions. These investments require the conduct of public procurement procedures, directly affecting local and national minority self-governments carrying out investments and renovations, so we must monitor them. Dear House, At yesterday's meeting of our committee, T/17147. It agreed with its amending intentions, and it will not express an independent intention to amend any of its points. On this basis, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities agrees with and supports the adoption of bill 17147 amending certain laws on public law. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2021-09-28-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. The first independent Member who has applied will speak, so I will give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2021-09-28-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/17147. Parliament is discussing bill No.1, which is indeed another, although shorter, salad law than average. There is no doubt that the law on local authorities should be amended in those parts which contain this proposal. I do not understand, and I speak to everyone who has been involved in the creation of this, or who has been involved in the creation of amendments, how this could still remain in force until 2021, when it is the case that in local municipal elections, for example in Budapest or in the counties, a large number of people are not only running for office in local governments, but also in the county and the metropolitan self-governments. Many times in the last ten or several years, the situation has come to light that representatives have been able to enter both district, municipal, county or capital councils, or individual representatives in individual constituencies, or from lists to the county and capital assembly, so they could have double positions. Now, on the one hand, this proposal quite rightly resolves the fact that anyone who has obtained a mandate from a list at both levels must really decide which office he intends to hold. But it is also a fact that there is also a part of this proposal, where we are talking about the fact that someone in the local government has acquired an individual mandate, i.e. he has won his constituency, and he has also been able to get into the metropolitan government from a list of compensation lists. What is the situation at a time like this? I mean, these are two parallel positions. What should we do at a time like this? After all, the workload or the kind of duality that can happen in a Member's life in decisions, how do we resolve this? This proposal maintains that the person who has obtained an individual mandate can take up his post, because it is therefore a mandate which is clearly addressed to him and not to the organisation that delegates him. And, of course, if you're on the list for the metropolitan government, you can take that too. I think that we could argue about the legal solution to these. I think, in any case, that this is fairer and better, and generally coincides with the rules of conflict of interest of the persons who took the mandate in the conduct of elections, or with the aim of avoiding double posts. However, I think that there is a part of this proposal, i.e. there is a part of this part of the proposal, the 146/G. The amendment to the Section of the Act, in which it concerns the application of this current rule to those who have obtained a mandate as a result of the local elections already held on 13 October 2019, which I do not agree with. An election is surrounded by a legal environment. The voters expect that the rules that exist at the time of the election guarantee them that, if the post is won, they will be able to fill it as long as they may not give up or die on their own. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Back-to-back legislation is a very dangerous soil, if this can happen in a legislative proposal, and Parliament votes in favour of it and applies it, then there is a reason for retroactive legislation on any matter from now on, since there is already a precedent. In particular, we are talking about a precedent in a situation where we should face it. It does not create any negative consequences of public law to enable those who have obtained a mandate during the 19th election to complete their mandates until the 24th of the year. It does not justify why this is necessary. And then here is the part of this bill that you all know the entire opposition has acted quite strongly and unitedly over the past few days. The university's maintainers were created as foundations, foundations and public foundations. The other issue is, of course, that people holding their own positions in the party or holding different positions in the government have been placed in a larger part of the board of trustees. It could not be said against this, but the government could do so, but it is an extremely sensitive part of this area, and it must also be acknowledged to my pro-government fellow Members and representatives of the Ministry that there is a reason why an opposition representative contradicts this method, as real estate serving educational institutions is given to these foundations. [[11.00]] It is incomprehensible why a university should not own the properties in which education is conducted. In recent times, since these legislative proposals have been brought before the House, they have never been able to justify this in a single presentation. We see that the current future governments are in a very difficult position by the fact that the educational institutions do not own the real estates in place of their activities, but by a foundation whose curators can at any time in the future make a decision against the needs of education, which does not serve the purpose of the educational institution, and would even shift the basic institutional system of the existence of universities into the middle of political disputes. And then, in this proposal, I don't understand everything either. I have to say that the Stromfeld Aurél Street Acting Museum is one of my favorite places in the country, let alone in the city, in the country, since it was created, I've really been a regular guest. He's been locked up for a long time, but when it's open, I'm a regular guest. I think, although it is clear that an activist museum is a place to remember artists who have ever lived, I do not think at all that I am talking about a museum or institution so closely linked to the education of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, which is why this foundation should be owned. This museum is a much higher value. This is a central place and element of Hungarian theatre culture that should not be placed in the educational institution's system. Interestingly, there was no explanation, not only in writing, but there was no indication in the oral, of the extent to which this was linked to the university and its education, so that this property should be transferred to the foundation. Please consider this. I don't want to bring too much historical dimensions to this House, but I was an adult even when this museum was created. Everyone knows that Gobbi Hilda created it, everyone knows that the home of Bajor Gizi and her husband was the Stromfeld Aurél Street real estate, we all know how tragic the end of these two people was, they died early, and they didn't die of natural causes. I think that both the life of this couple, their legacy and the wonderful museum that Gobbi Hilda created here with his fellow workers... is simply not a place for this institution to pass under the aegis of a university's curatorium of maintenance, practically making this institution's mission and its wonderful cultural heritage a haven forever. Once again, we are at this salad law, where there are elements on a regular basis that should be voted on, because there really was a need to clarify these contradictions in the law on local authorities, but then we have retroactive legislation, and this kind of wealth is coming out of the jurisdiction of the state. You simply put the opposition representative in a position not to vote for justified rules because there are also rules that are expressly contrary to the interests of Hungarian society, the Hungarian people. We have been sent here to look for every single sentence of each proposal for whether it is good for people or not. Since there are provisions in this proposal that are not good for Hungarian society, are not good for Hungarian culture and are not good for the quality of university education, I will not be able to support this proposal, unfortunately. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-28-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love, and we will continue our work. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, if he would like to respond as rapporteur to what has been said in the debate. [[Miklós Soltész: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond briefly. I would like to thank Mr Imre Ritter, German national representative, for his contribution. As we have done recently, in the last seven to eight years, we take into account the requests and requests of nationalities. This also happened in the spring when the law was amended by a two-thirds majority. I'm sure your comments are justified. However, I would like to thank Imre Vejkey and Károly Becsó, the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, for their support. As well as the fact that, for the bill, the opposition's united left-wing thinking said that there is something acceptable and that there is something that is not acceptable to them. I would only tell Gergely Harvesto that when he listened to my expoze with humid eyes, that I would help you cry. It happened, in the classic words of Jenő Hidden. I'm really touched that this is how you react to such a bill. And let me tell you how strong your preparedness is: there was no mention of the fact that this law is changing things now, but that it clarifies. It would be better not only to read into the bill, but also to interpret it where appropriate; of course, it may not be for you, but for your experts. So we're talking about clarification here. And his discussion was interesting to hear how good it would be if a person could be a representative in several places, whether in the capital city, in the district or anywhere else. Don't you have enough cadres? Or do you want to strengthen the job hoarders as a representative of the Gyurcsány Party? That's what the mayors do? Indeed, until 2014-18 this was good for the Fidesz-KDNP mayors, and now this proposal is good for the opposition, i.e. the left, in the Metropolitan Assembly. By the way, your logic is recognised by every mayor, whether on the left or on the right, but I can't solve your cadre problems, we won't, and we won't need it. You were a secretary of state in a government that, when there was a financial crisis in the world, and like this period, was a very big problem, how did you react? They did not invest more money in higher education, research and its development, but were withdrawn. It was you who, in times of crisis, took money from the whole human sector, culture, health care, education and education. As much as you may be surprised, you were an excellent representative of this period, since you were a secretary of state to assist in this austerity work. That's what the left wants, and that's what DK, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, wants. This is what you want to do against the voters, of course, they often deny or lie about it, but it remains a fact. And I can tell Mr Zoltán Balczó that I am very sorry for the change he has been through. And it's not the Jobbik, because the Jobbik has gone through something, it's clearly become a completely left-wing party, it's not even a question, it's getting more far-left. But personally, you have spoken many times, even during the first Orbán government, for values that were important. He spoke hard and decisively before 2010 against Gyurcsány-terror and generally against what they did. Compared to this, he now takes the rhetoric and pushes the rhetoric that characterizes the thinking of the entire left. I am also sorry because when you talk about privatisation or privateisation, you forget only one thing, that what was privatized in the pre-2010 period has largely gone into foreign hands. You are well aware of how the utility assets, part of the airport, were played out by those gentlemen at the time, the current DK-s, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who you also attacked, in foreign hands. [[11.10]] He does not add that when we are talking about privateisation, it is in Hungarian hands. [[Towards Gergely Harvesto:]] Excuse me? [[Gergely Arató: What does this have to do with this bill, Mr. Secretary of State? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] You're the one who brought it up. Yeah! [[Gergely Arató: Press the government propaganda instead of talking about the law!]] First of all, you have been given the floor, honourable Member, and second of all, it has to do with the fact that you were not in there, but you were wiping your tears, if I understand it correctly, because you said that you listened to me with humid eyes, so you could not listen properly. That's what we were talking about. Privateization. I just want to tell you that this country was sold out by you. You! I have now indicated in this debate and in the final thought that I am sorry that there is such a better-looking, right-wing Member, who had raised his word stone hard at the time, and then, for some other reason, I cannot decipher it anyway, because his name and everything else would oblige you, but he stands by it. To explain a few reasons when changing universities are being scolded or attacked: young people voted with their feet, if you can say so, because 65 percent of students voted in favour of changing universities, which means that they are not afraid of what you are threatening. Just as students applying to the University of Theatre and Film Arts were not afraid of what you left-wingers threatened, even if they visited high schools and vocational schools so that young people wouldn't go there. Even so, a lot of people came forward, multiple over-subscriptions, great first grade applications. That's how you've been selected over the past few years, how you've not allowed others, and you've been trying to turn some of these young people away from this university, which is now functioning properly and fairly. The fact that you guys always bring this up as trouble is amazing. It is equally important, Mr Gergely Arató, I say to you, but, of course, also to Mr Zoltán Balczó, that, compared to 2010, the support of higher education now doubled, in times of crisis or in the midst of huge difficulties: funding will increase to a thousand billion, of which HUF 300 billion will be development and innovation. You guys didn't get anywhere near this number. I can't get near this number! Once again, when there was a crisis, a financial crisis, you immediately withdrew the money from these areas, otherwise causing much more trouble to restart the next period. Only you can't think in the long term or in the medium term. What is still important in this area is that all the parts of the law that are now being changed are, indeed, mostly life has produced that it needs to be changed, and no one here makes such a law as the law would now be overturned here. I'm gonna add that if you start talking to us about salad law, look back at how many salad laws there were before 2010. You could've covered whole fields with that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-28-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Evidence of Qualifications and Scientific Degrees until its closure. The government referral is T/17141. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. For the first time, I give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Steiner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-45	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to publish the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Studies and Qualifications in Hungary and Ukraine and the Equivalence of Scientific Degrees. The mutual recognition of the evidence of studies and qualifications carried out in both countries and the equivalence of scientific degrees is currently under the bilateral intergovernmental agreement signed in Budapest on 27 October 1998, i.e. the Convention is ripe for updating. The need to renew the Convention has already been mentioned earlier, and the finalization of the text has been completed in the summer, as bilateral expert discussions become more active. Thus, the new convention represents a step forward in the automatic recognition of doctoral degrees and in the cross-compliance of professional qualifications. On this basis, higher education institutions in Ukraine automatically recognise the Hungarian scientific degree as equivalent, and the scope of recognition also covers all Ukrainian higher education institutions. The conclusion of the Convention is also important for the mutual recognition of the qualifications of training courses carried out in the framework of cooperation between vocational training institutions in Mátészalka and Transcarpathia. The substantively renewable treaty also includes national policy objectives and seeks to fully represent the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians. The Convention also mutually ratifys the evidence of state-recognized qualifications and scientific degrees issued in accordance with the national legislation of the two States, as well as the partial studies carried out in the framework of higher education courses. This includes the documents issued in Ukraine and Hungary prior to the entry into force of the Convention certifying qualifications and scientific degrees. The document also provides students with the possibility of continuing their studies in the next class or class, provided that they meet the requirements for further education. Furthermore, the Convention sets out which Hungarian and Ukrainian diplomas obtained in primary and secondary education, vocational secondary education, vocational education and training, basic and master education are equivalent and mutually recognised. The Convention also covers mutual recognition of scientific titles. The Convention also provides for the possibility to set up partial studies carried out in higher education institutions recognised in accordance with the national legislation of the States of the Parties, as well as the obligation to inform each other of the conditions and procedures for the recognition of evidence of qualifications and scientific degrees, and to inform each other of any changes in their education system and in the award procedure for scientific degrees. The Agreement also states that the Parties shall establish an expert committee whose primary task is to settle disputes arising and to report changes in the procedures for recognising States' own evidence of qualifications and scientific degrees. The Committee may make recommendations for all qualifications set out in the Convention, in particular for the mutual recognition of secondary and tertiary qualifications, or, on the basis of the agreement of the Parties, at any time, to amend the Convention in writing and to notify each other of their intention to terminate the Convention by diplomatic means at any time. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Convention entered into force on the thirtieth day following the receipt of the last notification sent during the diplomatic exchange between the Contracting Parties. I would like to ask the Parliament with respect to the adoption of the bill tabled and to support the publication of the convention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-28-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Balla. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[11.20]]
u2021-09-28-47	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Nearly a decade of conciliation is the end of the bill before us. Since 1998, a similar international agreement has been in place between our countries, but since then significant changes have been made in both Ukraine and Hungary, especially in the field of higher education. The Convention encourages cooperation in the field of education, science and supports academic mobility. During the negotiation of this bill, we cannot go beyond the fact that this agreement was concluded during a rather difficult period of Hungarian-Ukrainian relations. The new Ukrainian language law and the amended educational law as a result of it will, in an unprecedented way, reverse the fundamental right of minorities living in Ukraine to use their mother tongue. However, in the interests of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia with a population of about 150,000, it is important that our eastern neighbour is strengthened, his territorial unity and sovereignty will not be damaged in the future. We call for closer cooperation between Ukraine and the EU on all international platforms. We also support visa facilitation for Ukrainian citizens. In connection with the illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, we are behind the European Union's and NATO's non-recognition policy. I hope that, in view of our constructive approach, in the near future, the Ukrainian party will be willing to make changes in terms of the restrictions on the use of mother tongue. In this agreement, our efforts to fully represent our current national policy objectives and the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians are already being expressed. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey and Attila Steiner applaud.]]
u2021-09-28-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Zoltán Balczó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-49	Thank you for the floor. As has already been said, it is not a new treaty, it is an agreement. In 1998 a convention was concluded between Hungary and Ukraine on mutual recognition of diplomas and scientific degrees. Obviously, over the past period, the structure, technical terms and terminology of higher education has changed in such a way that this renewal is, of course, justified. It was said how important it is, of course, for Hungarian citizens to recognise their qualifications, degrees and degrees in Ukraine, but it is at least as important, for reasons of national policy, that the Hungarians in Transcarpathia will be able to use the degree obtained there in an equivalent manner in Hungary. The Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the adoption of the proposal. Thank you.
u2021-09-28-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-51	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what has already been said in Mr Attila Steiner's exposé and what my fellow Member, Mr Mihály Balla, has said, so I would just like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that the mutual recognition of the evidence of studies and qualifications in both countries and the equivalence of scientific degrees is currently taking place on the basis of the bilateral intergovernmental agreement signed on 27 October 1998 in Budapest, which was necessarily renewed. The new Convention was signed by Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, on 22 July 2021. It is more than odd that, while we are negotiating this new agreement, Ukraine is essentially trying to endanger the supply of gas to Hungary. There is no reason for the State Department to take appropriate action today. I am very confident, on behalf of the Christian Democrats and on behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, that this Convention will enter into force, and that not only the internal legal procedures of both parties will comply with this Convention, but that good neighbourly relations will also be restored between the two countries. I believe that Hungary always contributes to this with every positive step. We also ask the Ukrainian party to make gestures towards Hungary. Thank you.
u2021-09-28-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The motion will be supported here in Parliament. We're basically doing this for two reasons. One is that we always support and regard international conventions of a similar nature as important. At the same time, we cannot go without saying that an international treaty of this kind with Ukraine will also greatly help the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, and it can make it easier for many. Therefore, for these two reasons, I say that this proposal will be supported here by our group in the final vote. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-09-28-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is now room for speeches by independent representatives who have been registered in advance. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who will speak here on the stand. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-09-28-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The ratification of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is the subject of today's proposal in Parliament. I consider it so important to discuss the proposals for our neighbouring countries and our fellow nations living across borders that I think that the right thing to do is to give a keynote speech about the pulpit. The relations between Ukraine and Hungary have been very mixed not only recently, but also in previous years, from a very serious friendship to hostility. Any proposal and any convention that creates a close link between Ukrainian citizens and Hungarian citizens will serve the peaceful future relationship between these two countries. Of course, this is not the only agreement between Ukraine and Hungary on the recognition of qualifications, and this proposal will already rewrite the 1999 Government Decree, and the structural changes that have been made since then in the system of public education and higher education are now bound by this bill. There is no doubt for us, and in particular what is important is that if our cross-border national brothers wish to go to Hungary, then we recognise their qualifications there, and they can gain the vocations in Hungary that home Hungarians acquire at Hungarian universities. It is natural for me to vote in favour of this bill, as this is the fundamental aim of all responsible Hungarian Members. But let me say a few words, if we are talking about Ukraine and the Convention, so that I do not go without saying whether we have dozens of agreements with Ukraine in different areas, from the avoidance of double taxation to the management of borders to the recognition of Ukrainian pensions, and I could say countless conventions in both economic and public and cultural areas, how a Hungarian Member of Parliament wishes to cross the border of Ukraine to find out that he is banned from that country. It doesn't matter which political community the congressman belongs to. I ask all members of the government, even because the representative of the foreign affairs portfolio is sitting here, that it is not enough to show our respect for the other country within the Parliament, for example, in connection with such agreements, and to express the attachment that connects us to that country, especially with Ukraine, the Hungarians beyond the borders and the good neighbourliness are two very important elements. [[11.30]] But with great respect, we must somehow reach this neighbour, if he has such absolute respect from us, and has received such absolute respect, and we fully represent their interests on whatever front Hungary encounters the fate of Ukraine, then he cannot do so, and this is about the humiliation of the entire Hungarian nation, that a Member of Parliament cannot know through any diplomatic channels that he cannot enter that country, this friendly country. So regardless of the treaty, I'm asking you to do this. And I must say to you that it is particularly shocking to me that a gas supply contract such a friendly country dares to interfere at all. So we're not just talking about being neighbors and maybe a gas pipeline going through us, no country can talk about anything that is agreed with a third country for a public service, or something important to the nation, in order to obtain something important for the nation. So I am asking the Hungarian Government, and I will always represent it, as long as I am in politics, that, regardless of political parties, ideologies, we cannot do that in terms of representation of higher Hungarian interests, that we are second-rate in the eyes of anyone. At the moment that our country or any of its representatives have been humiliated, disrespected, and possibly even tried to speak into contracts, we must not simply express our displeasure on our own, but we must also express ourselves that we have, for centuries, been treated with incredible respect for the interests of all our neighbours and all other countries, and for a moment we will not allow anyone to respect our country or our citizens, or any interest in our country, and give us all the rights and respect that we give to everyone in the world, especially our neighbours. Many times I feel that we are second-rate in these circumstances. Many times I feel that they feel in international space: oh, the Hungarians can endure everything, endure everything, survive everything, be happy to talk to them. No! So I ask with great respect all members of the government, the Prime Minister, the pro-government representatives, to be proud and mercilessly demanding respect for our country in these matters, even because when a citizen of any country who enters our territory, and whose rights are governed by treaties or laws, we always give it to everyone in full, and it cannot be tolerated that anyone violates our interests for any reason. I would like to ask the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with great respect, since, fortunately for us, he is here to report to Parliament during the next period on how our fellow Member Nacsa Lőrinc was banned, what the Ukrainian party did to make us aware of this, because it is important for all Hungarian Members of Parliament to know how his partner was in such a situation and why he has to face it in such a humble way. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2021-09-28-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate now. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató of DK.
u2021-09-28-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We are fundamentally in favour of the bill itself, since these types of cooperation are indeed in the interest of the two countries. They are also important for Hungarians living across the border in Ukraine, but they can also be important for the economic relations of the countries. I think that, by the way, the presentation of these professional proposals can only be approved. This type of higher education cooperation is desirable not only with Ukraine but also with other countries; it is said today that higher education is becoming international in general. There are clear and simple rules within the EU on how to recognise qualifications and how to use them, but these are justified for countries outside the EU. To be honest, that's why I wouldn't have asked for a word, just to say my agreement, although sometimes it's important to remember that. However, I would like to point out with caution that if results could be achieved in this area with negotiation and willingness to cooperate, we have managed to conclude an agreement that is likely to benefit and benefit Hungarians living in Ukraine, then is it not possible that this is also the desirable way in the case of language law, rather than threatening, blocking the approach to NATO and other hostile actions? Could it not be that if Ukraine felt the opposite of what she said, that if the Ukrainian party felt that there was a willingness to cooperate in Hungary, this would facilitate relations that would then bring benefits to Hungarians living in Transcarpathia? Because we know that, by the way, if Kiev and Budapest's relationship is tense, the Hungarians in Transcarpathia drink it in the first place. And finally, I'd like to ask you one more question. If this contract could indeed have been renegotiated for decades and a new contract could be concluded according to Hungarian interests, then why can't the Hungarian-Ukrainian pension agreement be renegotiated? Why can't it end the Ukrainian pension business, why can't it end the situation that creates continuous, senseless tension and is extremely unfair? Why doesn't the government intend to renegotiate this treaty, by the way? I am sure that the new version or termination of this convention would be welcomed by all sides of this House. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-28-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Tamás Vargha asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2021-09-28-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm for her contribution, which was not addressed... [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Congressman, I listened to what you said. I want you to listen to these few thoughts. [[Gergely Harvesto: Here you go.]] I do not wish to comment on this proposal, but I would like to thank the Member for mentioning the two matters which are very important to us, both to ban our fellow Member and to the principle that we represent on the gas agreement concluded yesterday. We work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the basis of the principle that respect is given to all countries and, of course, we expect that the country we are dealing with will give Hungary the same respect. Of course, we do not accept that a third country should express criticism or disapproval of the gas transport agreement concluded for the benefit of the Hungarian people, as this is in the interest of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Just as we do not accept that a Hungarian MP or anyone, a Hungarian person, should be banned from Ukraine for reasons made known. We have always stood up for Ukraine's interests and Ukraine's ideas, we support the sovereignty of the country; we support its intentions and the respect that we give Ukraine, we also expect Ukraine to do. Thank you very much for your contribution once again, Congresswoman. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-09-28-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Mihály Balla has applied for a two-minute speech, but I would like to point out that if anyone's speech is no longer bound to the bill on mutual recognition of scientific degrees or qualifications, I will withdraw the floor. Thank you very much. Congressman Mihály Balla has the floor.
u2021-09-28-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Just allow me one sentence on the subject of the debate, Mr President. It is a fact and a fact that we are discussing the draft law on mutual acceptance of degrees and academic degrees, but there have been a few things here on which to allow one sentence. The Hungarian language law and its impact on the minority law took place before the Hungarian position in matters relating to NATO was more stringent than the Ukrainian party would have liked. Thank you very much, Mr President, and, of course, with regard to the law, it is very important that we are pleased to see that everyone is in favour of adopting the bill. Thank you very much. [[11.40]]
u2021-09-28-62	Thank you very much. That concludes the secondary debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to comment on the priority, the actual debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Attila Steiner, State Secretary, if possible to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be very brief and I would really like to thank the Members for their support on the bill. I think that this agreement will greatly encourage scientific and educational cooperation between the Ukrainian and Hungarian parties, so thank you again for your support.
u2021-09-28-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Belize on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and official passports until its closure. The government referral is T/17143. The IT network of the House is accessible to all of us. I am speaking to the rapporteur for the government referral, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-28-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The aim of the agreement before us is to ensure visa-free entry and 90 days visa-free stay in Hungary and Belize for holders of diplomatic, service and official passports in Hungary and Belize. The delegation of power required for the signature of the Agreement shall be 1582/2020. Based on the Government Decision No 13, under which the Agreement was signed on 28 May 2021 by the Ambassador of the two countries authorised to sign in Mexico City. Our draft contract developed by expert consultations follows the provisions of our international treaties on the same subject as other countries, and, of course, it is also in line with the rights and obligations arising from our country's membership of the European Union and Schengen. The agreement was signed in Hungarian and English, the text is published by the law in these two languages. The partial visa waiver agreement consists of 17 articles and aims to allow Hungarian and Belizen citizens who have diplomatic and official passports to travel to each other's territory without a visa and to be free there for 90 days. Members of diplomatic or consular missions and delegations accredited to international organisations, as well as members of their families living in the same household, shall continue to be required to obtain a visa and a residence permit from the host State prior to their entry. The signatory parties shall, of course, undertake to comply fully with the laws and regulations applicable in the territory of the other Party. Dear House, I would ask my fellow Members to accept the bill tabled. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-28-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Balla. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Hungary is committed to building diplomatic, cultural and economic relations with the Central European States, so on 28 May 2021 the ambassadors of Hungary and Belize signed an agreement deepening bilateral relations in Hungary and Belize. I wish to stress that this agreement is about visa waiver for citizens with diplomatic, service and official passports, which also means that the representatives of our country and our diplomats arriving on official voyages on behalf of our country can travel to each other without administrative burden. However, cooperation shows progress not only in the area of administration but also in specific sectors. An example of this is the education issue, since the ambassadors also signed a Memorandum of Understanding for Education Cooperation for the period 2021-2023, which allows Belize to participate in the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme, and in this academic year, following their successful admission, five students from Belize can continue their studies in Hungary with a Hungarian scholarship. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As is known, the conclusion of the agreement was initiated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Belize, and this seems acceptable to us, as the assessments carried out as a result of the possibility of an earlier visa waiver agreement between the Central American country and the European Union do not pose a safety risk. This is important because, as a general rule, it falls within the competence of the European Union to determine whether third-country nationals are visa-free or visa-free. At the same time, 14 November 2018, 2018/1806. Article 6 (1) of the European Union Regulation allows EU Member States to grant visa waiver under their respective competences to nationals of otherwise visa-free States who have diplomatic passports or service passports or official passports. Belize has been granting a unilateral visa waiver to citizens of the Member States of the European Union for more than 30 years, in fact since 1990, so that Hungarian citizens can stay in the country for 30 days without a visa if the passport is valid for at least half a year at the time of entry. However, the purpose of the new agreement is to ensure visa-free entry for holders of diplomatic, service and official passports in Hungarian-Belize and a visa-free stay of up to 90 days in the country. Moreover, it is worth mentioning that none of the Schengen Member States are represented in Belize, which is not only a problem for us, but also an opportunity where appropriate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-28-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik is of the opinion that any country with which Hungary, its Government, its Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has economic, diplomatic, any relationship, should be able to help the free movement of diplomats, help economic expansion, help investors who want to pursue their interests from one country to another and from one country to the other. Of course, in such a way that the interests of the host country are not harmed by accident and are fully taken into account, especially for the people of the host country, i.e. not just for the government and the country alone, but for the population of that country. Mr State Secretary mentioned that this proposal for a reciprocal visa waiver, which, as it may seem, may seem a formality, is, in fact, to say above all, that we will support this initiative, but this is not necessarily about mutual visa waiver, because it is also in the speech of my former pro-government colleague that Belize's Government has provided this to the Member States of the European Union and the Member States of the Schengen area since 1990. Hungary has not been a member of this community since 1990, but has since 2004. So, by the way, I think that Belize has been granting these rights, these prerogatives to European countries for 30-31 years, we say, 17 years late, but we are joining this agreement. So this means, in my reading and in our reading, that now, after the privileges that Belize has long given us, we will now give similar ones to the diplomats in Belize. At the same time, let me ask you a question about this briefly. Many of you will certainly remember the elections in 2018 and the previous period, and regarding Belize, this is very sharp, and we have not heard any reassuring developments since. Belize was the country where one of the pro-government representatives from Heves County, by the way, saved HUF 1.2 billion in his or his wife's account. So we fully support visa waiver in relation to other countries, the development and growth of diplomatic and economic relations, but I ask you to be embarrassing and delicately careful that this does not become a storage space for the assets saved from the country. [[11.50]] They do not store the taxpayers' money that was stolen, taken, but at least did not pay into the Hungarian state register. Once again, we are in favour of the idea, but we have doubts that it is not a kind of saving money for certain people. I ask the State Department to pay particular attention to this. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-09-28-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Imre Vejkey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-71	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha said and what my colleague Mihály Balla also said, but I would like to draw the attention of this House to the aim of this agreement is to ensure visa-free entry and 90 days visa-free stay in Hungary and Belize for holders of diplomatic, service and official passports in Hungary and Belize. It also shows that what we have just heard from the lead speaker of Jobbik has nothing to do with this bill. Moreover, the Agreement does not exempt members of diplomatic or consular missions or accredited representatives of international organisations and family members living with them in the same household from the obligation to obtain a visa from the host State for their accreditation prior to their entry. In addition to the above, the Agreement states that this does not affect the rights and obligations arising from Hungary's membership of the European Union, and that the person entitled to visa-free entry must respect in all respects the laws and other rules of the State of the other Party. I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that, on the basis of what has already been said and what I have said, the parliamentary group of KDNP supports it. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-28-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has constantly developed relations in this area with the world's states. Naturally, every year there are some proposals before the National Assembly in which our country enters into an agreement on visa waiver for nationals with diplomatic, service and official passports with a given State. I do not even remember that when Hungary concluded a treaty of this type, with roughly the same content with another country, it would not have been supported by our faction. I can say the same in this situation. I hope that economic and other relations between the two countries can develop and develop. So this type of presentation is always supported by our faction, and it will be now. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-09-28-74	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak for the first time by an independent Member. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-09-28-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The ratification of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Belize on visa waiver for nationals with diplomatic, service and official passports is being discussed in Parliament. As the speakers before me have said, it is in Hungary's interest to have very close, balanced relations with all the countries of the world and to help each other in a situation of mutual respect for each other. It should be noted that Belize is a country of 380 thousand souls, which means that there would be very little service, diplomatic and professional traffic between the two countries if there was no other higher interest. This country is a very exotic country, located on the eastern coast of Central America, next to the Caribbean Sea, in the north it is bordered by Mexico and in the south it is bordered by Guatemala. Belize is a crown ring, a small jewel among the Central American countries, where, by the way, it means a higher social position if they speak that language and look down on the Spanish-speaking ones. That's pretty specific, still in the 21st century. Even in the century, but the British crown ring as an inheritance can also create rather interesting peculiarities in a country. It has been independent since 1981, and it is the smallest independent state in the continental states of the Americas, and what my fellow Member has said before me is a tax haven. Unfortunately, the nature of tax havens can also result in economic operators or politicians who do not want to show very much what material goods they have in their country or even in the Union, who like to flee their assets. Therefore, Belize, for example, can be said to have the third largest income per capita in Central America, while the majority of society lives in extreme poverty. So there's an amazing duality in this country. Because of the nature of tax havens, certain organizations and people from countless places around the world are taking their assets and incomes there on paper, thus creating these rather specific qualities for this country. The structure of their government is the same as that of the British Parliament, as this political heritage was not intended to be abolished. They're in Persian Union with Britain. I think, of course, that we are voting in favour, as we have already voted in favour of all international conventions, this is in the fundamental interest of our country, and I would just like to say that agreements of this type should not be a message to Hungarian society that it is important to conclude agreements of this kind with such exotic countries or tax havens in order that Hungarian citizens, who did not exactly acquire their assets and assets on the ground of legality, should be able to easily get to these countries and try to legalize their assets there. It would be very, very social destruction if any Hungarian citizen could feel that this is why these conditions are created. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-28-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Tamás Vargha's mark:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-28-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the contributions of my fellow Members, especially those parts of the speeches that were closely linked to the bill. I think that any other ulterior motive for a bill before us is not necessary. Thank you very much for your support, and I would like to ask my fellow Members for this support in the vote as well. Thank you.
u2021-09-28-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday at 4 p.m. for each of our laws discussed today. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the publication of an agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments until closure. The government referral is T/17142. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. For the first time, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us adds a new element to the legislative framework for the development of economic relations between Hungary and the United Arab Emirates. Its aim is to enable economic relations in the bilateral Hungarian and the United Arab Emirates, including investment relations, and to make the investment environment safer and more favourable. [[12.00]] The agreement concerns investments carried out by investors from the two countries in each other's territory, thus serving in Hungarian terms the protection and legal certainty of Hungarian investors in the United Arab Emirates, which is of particular importance in the Gulf region with a number of market opportunities. The external economic strategic objective of Hungary's Government is to encourage foreign investments by Hungarian companies and to balance the profits generated there with the profits exported by foreign investors. The implementation of this strategy is based, inter alia, on the establishment of bilateral investment protection agreements, such as this agreement, which lies before us. Since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009, foreign direct investment has been part of the common commercial policy within the European Union. This means that the Member States of the European Union can conclude an investment protection agreement with other countries if the European Commission, in addition to the necessary national mandate, has, of course, issued an authorisation for approval. In this case, this was done and the Convention was signed on 15 July 2021. The Treaty was therefore concluded on the basis of the guidelines of the European Union and with its approval. Ladies and gentlemen, We expect the conclusion of this agreement to help develop economic and investment relations between Hungary and the United Arab Emirates by protecting investors. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-09-28-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Balla. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The economic and diplomatic relationship between our country and the Arab Emirates has been greatly strengthened in recent years, thanks also to the regular talks between Minister Péter Szijjártó and our diplomats with the leaders of the Emirs. Our countries have recently undergone spectacular development, and this is an excellent sign of the explosion of the Hungarian economy, and the Dubai Expo 2021 on the other side, which will be held this year, and Hungary will also be represented in this event of international importance. From November 2020, Szabolcs Tatár was appointed as Minister for Foreign Affairs to carry out diplomatic tasks related to the promotion of Hungarian appearance, who is responsible for placing greater emphasis on the relationship between the two countries and creating better opportunities. The United Arab Emirates are the second most important trading partner in the Middle East after Israel, and we have a positive external trade balance, so we export more than we import. As part of this fruitful bond, our companies work for many Hungarians in Hungary, thus contributing to the government's efforts to protect their jobs. Our diplomatic relations go back to 1990, but the embassy only opened in 2006 in Abu Dhabi. Today, however, the time has come to strengthen economic relations in line with trends, and the inclusion of this bill can be a very important step in this, since it not only provides economic incentives for investment, but also guarantees and legal frameworks for the parties and their companies, with which the leaders and employees of small businesses and emerging technologically oriented enterprises can more bravely try to implement their plans in the State of the other party. This is also outstanding because the Emirates have grown into a world-class centre of technology and tourism, and Hungarian businesses can benefit from this development potential in the future. Mr President, Dear House, I propose that we adopt the bill before us, because I speak on behalf of Fidesz-KDNP, the Fidesz faction, because it will have a positive and competitive impact immediately after financial, legal and then economic frameworks have been established, which will enable us to further strengthen our cooperation. And perhaps it is a very important step that is planned that cooperation between our chambers of commerce can also be established in an official form and there will also be a business council meeting at the next meeting of the Joint Economic Committee in January. I would therefore like your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-09-28-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I believe that we are now discussing a matter of a greater magnitude in terms of the agreement between the Government of the United Arab Emirates and the Government of Hungary than we have on the previous agenda. Not to underestimate the importance of it, but I think that the declaration of our relationship with a Gulf country, if economic development is on the agenda for a Gulf country, should be treated as a priority, otherwise it should be any Gulf country, but perhaps the United Arab Emirates should be particularly highlighted. As has already been said, but I would also like to mention the second largest country in the Gulf region and, taking into account its economic potential for Hungary, there is therefore a need for any kind of investment promotion, any mutual communication towards it and the declaration of what is otherwise in the interests of the country and in the interests of the two countries, and this should be fully supported. What I would like to draw attention to, however, and I have also mentioned is that it is very important to represent the interests of the countries. It is very important to represent companies that represent countries and that this should be ratified in the sense that both the host and the sending countries ensure the rights and prerogatives that can be used to carry out the appropriate activities, otherwise they create value locally, but they can also show economic growth from the host country. What we will never talk about, and perhaps that is the most important, and here I would refer back to the Prime Minister for a speech he gave several years ago in a country in the Arab region, when he told them to come to us and invest in us, because we have very cheap labour. Well, if we consider taking into account the interests of the countries and companies, the country should be a priority, so obviously as a Hungarian Member of Parliament, I say that it is in the interests of Hungary's employees. Don't come here to invest because we keep wages systematically low. No, let the country benefit from these investments, let the company benefit, but let the population also benefit, let the Hungarian worker also profit! In conclusion, although I have already mentioned that every economic recovery bill should be supported, this will also be supported by Jobbik's faction, but the interests of the Hungarian population and the Hungarian employee should be taken into account much more seriously. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-09-28-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-85	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what has been said in Mr Tamás Vargha's exposé, so I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that the aim of the agreement is to develop, facilitate economic relations between the two countries, in particular to make the conditions for investment activities in each other more favourable and secure. [[12.10]] The investment protection agreement between the two countries creates a legal framework for investments in each other's territory; it defines the concept of investment, defines the need to create favourable investment conditions; it provides for the transfer of income generated and the case law to be followed in the event of possible nationalisation. One of the main provisions of the agreement is that investors in the two countries have legal guarantees to protect their investments. In particular, it is important for investors to provide for impartial arbitration. I dare say, on behalf of the KDNP, that this is indeed an extremely important clause, that arbitration can guarantee impartiality at international level. On behalf of KDNP, I support the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-28-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said our position on the publication of the intergovernmental agreement discussed above, and we are always in favour of these types of proposals in the context of visa waiver. I can say right now that proposals on investment incentives and mutual protection have always been supported without exception by the MSZP fraction. Indeed, I can say that the volume of this, we hope, can be encouraging, since the Government of Hungary has concluded such an agreement with the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which is being presented. One word, like a hundred, the proposal will be supported by the MSZP fraction in the final vote. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-09-28-88	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I do not see an application, so the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for your support. In the light of the significant increase in the minimum wage expected as a result of outstanding Hungarian economic performance, I cannot talk about artificially low wages, who do not live in this country and say such a thing, they do not live their daily lives among voters. [[Zoltán Balczó: That's the future!]] Thank you very much for the supporting contributions and for the support of the Parliament during the vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Zoltán Balczó: For now, the minimum wage is the lowest among the V4s. This is the future.]]
u2021-09-28-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The draft law on the accession of the French Republic to the Agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Niger on the legal arrangements for the intervention of the French forces in Niger for the security of the Sahel, signed in Niamey on 25 March 2013 and the Act between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Niger on the regulation of the status of French military personnel in Niger in the framework of the French intervention in the security of the Sahel, signed in Niamey on 19 July 2013, on 7 March 2013 between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Niger on the adoption of the Additional Protocol on the status of non-French forces of the TAKUBA forces, signed in Bamako on 8 March 2013, concerning the conclusion of the draft law on the signing of the Agreement between the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali on the status of the non-French forces, establishing in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali concerning the Additional Protocol on the legal status of the non-French forces of TAKUBA in Bamako, and Koulouba, signed on 8 March 2013, on the draft law on the conclusion on the conclusion on the conclusion of the conclusion of the draft law on the conclusion of the conclusion of the joint agreement on the General Agreement on the conclusion of the conclusion of the signing of the General Agreement on the Treaty of the Treaty of the General Agreement on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the status of the status of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Republic of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic [[Zoltán Balczó: Thank you! Clap your hands.]] Government referrals T/17145, T/17146. and H/17144. can be accessed by numbers on the House's IT network for all of us. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to State Secretary István Németh Szilárd, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, the author of the bill. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-09-28-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The title of the two laws and the parliamentary resolution already shows us that we are talking about a very serious and international relationship and scene, the foreign potential of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and we need to do this very precisely and carefully, both to protect the regulations and the Hungarian defences, and to protect the integrity of our country. The promotion of international peace and security, the fight against terrorism, the reduction of migratory pressure on Europe is in the common interest of all of us. We must ensure the safety of Hungary and Europe not only in Schengen borders, but also in locations that are significantly exposed to migration. We are also present in the Balkans, the Middle East and Africa. The world's rapidly changing and increasingly complex security and defence policy challenges, Hungary's allies' commitments, require our country's armed forces to be ready to defend the country and to engage in crisis zones resulting from NATO, the European Union, the UN and our coalition membership. Under Article 47 of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the right to authorise the application of the Hungarian Defence Forces abroad is divided between the government and the National Assembly: while NATO and the European Union are decided by the Government, other international military actions may be decided by the National Assembly, as we have recently done in connection with the engagement in the international coalition against Islam. Hungary's new adopted national security strategy declares that our country intends to remain an active and credible contributor to Euroatlantic security in the future. This is Hungary's duty as an ally, but the strategy also highlights that international crisis management operations in remote regions affecting European stability serve Hungary's fundamental security policy interests. Following the failure of international intervention in Afghanistan, there is already a huge migratory pressure on the Hungarian border and there has been an increase in terrorist threats across Europe. It is therefore necessary to prevent Europe from reaching another flood of migrations. According to the Hungarian government, the farther we draw the lines of defense, the better for us. The Hungarian Defence Forces are getting more and more tasks in international missions. As of November 2021, KFOR will be a Hungarian commander, which is a major military diplomacy recognition of the operations of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Since September 2022, the Baltic airspace will be protected by Hungarian Gripens again. In missions, they can not only practice existing skills, apply them in sharp situations, but also gain new experience and skills. Our missionaries are not only giving but also learning. Hungary has gained missionary experience in almost twenty countries of four continents in its recent history. Currently, in nine countries of three continents, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Italy, Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Georgia, Cyprus, Mali and Western Sahara, nearly a thousand are serving in operations led by NATO, the EU, the UN and the Iraqi anti-terror coalition. [[12.20]] Participation in foreign missions is, on the one hand, a unique opportunity to gain operational experience that will be integrated into the training, preparation and application system of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and will ensure its complex applicability, the development of dynamic responses to security challenges, the exercise of the decision-making and operational management system in a real situation; on the other hand, our ally or other international coalition commitments require us to do so in the interests of collective security. The Hungarian mission quotas, be they in any geostrategic field, have always performed their duties to a high standard and fulfil their duties today, proving the ability, credibility and reliability of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Without these missions, there is no doubt that the international judgement of the Hungarian Defence Forces would be much lower. In these missions, staff, equipment, preparedness, methods and procedures are complexly tested in an international environment. The existing missionary experience, the cooperation skills and reliability of soldiers provide Hungary with a stable and prestigious place in the alliance; this position must be further strengthened. The more battlefields we try, the more we understand the complex challenges of the operational environment, the possible ways of dealing with conflicts. Therefore, the Hungarian Defence Forces participates in a number of NATO, EU, UN and coalition operations, because Hungary's primary interest is to prevent the stability of the Balkan, Middle East, North Africa and the Sahel countries, as well as the expansion of extremist Islamist movements and terrorist groups. To this end, the Hungarian Defence Forces will participate with 500 participants in NATO operations in Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Iraq, with nearly 200 participants in EU missions, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mali, Georgia and the Mediterranean, as well as two dozen in UN missions in Cyprus, Lebanon and Western Sahara, and with almost 150 in US-led coalition operations against Islam. One of the root causes of the pressure coming from the South is migration in the sub-Saharan region and its hand-in-hand terrorist threat, so Hungary is ready to step up its contribution to the security of the region. Every day, Hungarian soldiers make amazing efforts to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people and all of Europe. Thousands of people are working in our country to ensure that Europeans' everyday lives are at peace and safe, which is a priority for us, and it would be good for Brussels to have this priority. The situation is becoming increasingly threatening, the pressure is increasing every day at the external Schengen borders, and we need to prepare for more and more attacks in the coming period. On the Hungarian border until 26 September 2021, this year more than 80,000 illegal migrants were detained and forced out by police and soldiers. This figure was 46 179 last year, so in 2020 it was 46 179. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Defence is a national matter, a strong Hungary cannot exist without a strong army. Europe's security requires that all nations pay much more attention to guaranteeing the safety of their own citizens. Only a strong defence guarantees the peace of our country, the freedom of our countrymen, the safety of our family members. In order to reduce the country's dependence and the security of the forces, Hungarian companies that formed the Hungarian defence industry base were also increasingly involved. In this way, we could mention, among other things, the small arms factory in Kiskunfélegyháza or, in Gyula, the aircraft component factory or the production of ammunition in Castle Palace, in accordance with the Airbus contracts. So not only is the military's training system, not only its number, not only its purchased weapons, but also the weapons production that provides reinforcements, and this ensures that a strong and committed defence force is built in Hungary; the foundation of this is provided by the defense and force development programme, Zrínyi 2026, and the ever-increasing budget money allocated to it. We know from the budget proposal that the 1000 billion will be exceeded next year, so for the first time there will be enough money for the defence, which will allow both development and the increase in the number of defences, and by 2024 we will undertake to translate 2% of GDP into defence under the agreement concluded in Wales. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to Hungary's unique geostrategic situation, it lies at the intersection of southern and eastern challenges, and while we are solidarity with our Western and Eastern allies, the southern direction is primarily a direct threat to us. That is why security in the Western Balkans is a strategic priority for us, and that is why we have placed an increasing emphasis on addressing the root causes of African threats. The security situation in the Sahel has deteriorated significantly over the last decade due to the escalation of ethnic and tribal conflicts, the spread of extremist Islamist movements and the activities of terrorist groups. For this reason, the UN, the EU and the French forces have launched military operations to restore stability in the region. A number of previously indicated European countries have joined the European-led, French-led operation Barkhane. TF TAKUBA has been in operation since the beginning of 2020, in a specific, coalition, multi-national, European Special Operations Forces, with eight currently participating-financing nations, Hungary intends to join the informal battle force as the ninth with special operational forces whose main task is to support the conventional light detection and intervention squads of local partner forces in Mali and to carry out the military tasks of counter-terrorism activities in the area of the Mali-Niger-Burkina Faso triple border. The multi-national headquarters of the participating nations shall implement the management of the task implementation at the tactical level. The participation of the Hungarian Special Operations Forces will be based on the implementation of advisory, support and battlefield mentoring tasks. Accordingly, in the first quarter of 2022, we plan to relocate a quota of up to 80 persons to an operational area. Prior to the deployment of forces into the operational area, it is appropriate to deploy a preparatory unit of 20 members this year to prepare for the arrival and operation of this 80-person manoeuvring force. The Hungarian forces would switch over four months of rotation, adapted to the operational tasks of TF TAKUBA and the available strategic transport. Under international law, such military presence and operation are legally possible only with the consent of the States concerned. The States concerned have asked Hungary to do so, which means Niger and Mali, and their leaders have asked Hungary separately for assistance and the Hungarian armed forces to participate in the tasks of TAKUBA. With regard to the proposal for a parliamentary decision, pursuant to Article 47 of the Fundamental Law, if the operation does not constitute an application or a stationing activity, the authorisation of the team movement involving the crossing of borders is the government's competence and does not require a parliamentary licence. If it is an application or stationing and is not based on the decision of NATO or the EU or similar international organisation, then team movements and participation in the operation shall be subject to the approval of Parliament pursuant to Article 47. The additional protocols on non-French forces of TAKUBA concluded and adopted between the two countries, namely Mali and Niger, and France provide for the status of the multi-national forces. This protocol must be accompanied by an oral list and an acceptance declaration to the countries concerned; these are recognised by the legislative proposals and both of the legislative proposals that we have tabled. [[12.30]] The Hungarian Defence Forces are also in particularly difficult, gunpowder situations. Our soldiers in these operations and missions not only perform their duties in the interests of Hungary and its allies, but also acquire valuable operational experience and skills, which are essential for maintaining the military's military capabilities. The knowledge and experience gained during the engagement in Afghanistan was effectively applied by the Hungarian soldiers during their operations, and proved their worth even after its completion, either during the evacuation of Hungarian, foreign and Afghan citizens who had previously assisted the Hungarian soldiers in Afghanistan. Dear fellow Members, The task of the TACUBA Special Operation Force in the Sahel countries is in line with the Government's view that problems should be solved at the place where they were created, thus helping countries in distress. Hungary is committed to maintaining international peace and stability, and TAKUBA also serves this purpose, so it is in our national interest to play a part in it. Our involvement and high diplomatic attention have led to a significant improvement in our relations in the region. The participation in the peace operation strengthens the defence capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Participation will also facilitate the development of bilateral relations with countries in the regions concerned. In view of the above, I would ask my fellow Members to discuss and vote in favour of the Parliamentary resolution proposal and the two legislative proposals. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-09-28-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Balla. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, There is a joint joint general debate on two legislative proposals and a proposal for a decision, as these issues are interrelated. As Minister of State has finished, he said in his final thought, and I would like to begin by saying that the Government of Hungary has expressed a lot of emphasis and firm position that problems should be solved at the place where they are created, thus helping other countries and not bringing trouble here. If a country or region is stable, people living there have the opportunity to live or develop better living conditions. You don't have to leave your homeland or go somewhere in hopes of a better life. It is clear that the root causes of emigration due to impossible living conditions must be eliminated, and this approach is one of the results, and this approach can lead to results in the fight against the emergence of modern migration crises. In this approach, it is clear why Hungary intends to actively participate in military operations to establish stability in the Sahel in West Africa. The Sahel is characterised by a deep economic crisis and the presence of various jihadist groups and institutional weakness. This crisis has been permanent for a decade, I would say, acute, and the region is unable to recover from this situation. Thousands lost their lives in extremist attacks, ethnic fornications, and the excesses of military forces, and hundreds of them became land runners. Many of them are fleeing to the secure Nigerian Republic, which, however, is facing problems similar to those of other countries in the region, and the flow of refugees is only damaging their chances of achieving stability. The French forces are therefore present in the region from 2012. That year, Islamist insurgents forced the Prime Minister to resign in Mali with the aim of establishing an Islamic state of law, an independent state organization based on Sharia, in the northern part of the country. In the war, the civil war situation, worrying about the security of the civilian population, Mali himself requested foreign military assistance, which the French forces tried to provide in the form of an operation under the cover of SERVAL, which they led. SERVAL was successful, but in 2014 a new civil war broke out required further intervention. By then, the Islamists had already broken the stability of the entire region, so the operation, called Barkhane, also led by the French forces, was launched to restore the stability of the entire region. In this action, the forces of several European countries have already worked together to support Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania and Niger in the fight against Islamic terrorism. Although the results are not yet the most encouraging, we hope that the forces of the warlords and the various terrorist organizations there will be broken, trying to destabilize the countries of the region from village to village. According to some analysts, today the Islamist groups in the Sahel have a clear aim of stimulating migration flows from Africa to Europe, as they want to take advantage of their financial potential. Emmanuel Macron announced in June this year that Operation Barkhane was coming to an end and stressed that it should be replaced by a joint European cooperation with a strict focus on the fight against terrorism, in which France would continue to participate. There is therefore no exodus, and the security forces fighting for the stability of the region are in transition. Therefore, the TAKUBA-coded Special Operations Force occasional combat bond is still established as part of Operation Barkhane. France has invited a number of Western partners, including several NATO countries, to become the backbone of the joint counter-terrorist battle outlined in the long term. Hungary's forces want to assist in the performance of the tasks of the TACUBA bond as a coalition partner. Our soldiers in the Republic of Niger and Mali would perform their services in support of local forces. And since this is a coalition operation, participation is required under Article 47 (2) of the Fundamental Law and is subject to Parliament's consent and permission. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposals before us, to support our military engagement in achieving stability in the Sahel. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-09-28-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, We could already have a serious historical overview of the Sahel and the TACUBA mission, so I do not want to repeat them, but there are some facts that deserve to be mentioned, and I think it is my duty to mention them. In relation to illegal migration, this is most often mentioned for the Middle East countries, but it should not be forgotten, however, that there is a strong migratory pressure on the part and direction of the destabilised countries from Africa to Europe. Well, this is also the case in the Sahel area, where this has already been said by both the government and the Parliament, a military contingent would be deployed in order to do what the Jobbik faction has been saying for years, to solve the problem there on the ground. Migration pressure should not be addressed at external borders, in external countries, but at the site of formation. We need to remedy this, whether by a peacekeeping mission, with economic investment, education and health care, local education and local health care, in order for people who wish to leave there to abandon this intention. [[12.40]] That's why there's a lot of work to be done. However, we must have a common opinion not only here in the Hungarian Parliament, but in all the countries and all the parliaments of Europe that we must do everything together on this issue. Here comes the fact, however, that since 2014, France has been trying to do everything I have said on this issue with a UN mandate. Without NATO authorization. I find this sad that NATO ties are not helping, and many European NATO Member States are not helping in this situation in Africa to help curb illegal migration from Africa to Europe. We used to say that the defense should speak for the defence of the country itself, and I think that this is the way it should be, and it is the right thing to do. Let's protect our own country. Mr. State Secretary mentioned that Hungarian soldiers are involved in a number of missions around the world, how much experience they have, and how inevitable this is. I share this opinion with you, but I say that, if possible, Hungarian soldiers should defend the Hungarian country, if possible at the Hungarian border. On the other hand, if Hungary's defence needs assistance at an external border, in an external country, and a squad should be deployed, I think that this should be fully supported. Allow me, Mr Secretary, to ask you a few questions about this. But before I do this, as I have said, that this operation, managed by France, is taking place without NATO intervention and assistance, I believe that a diplomatic exchange of letters from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence to the governments of the countries of the European Union, such an initiative would be very important, since this mission protects not only Hungary but also the citizens and sovereignty of many other European countries. It would be important for their involvement to be reflected in practice. Then let me ask you some practical questions. This is a French language area, but the language of the Hungarian soldiers, the special forces of operations, is English, as far as I know. What will be the main course of communication on the spot, what language can they speak, prepared for this? And how long are you planning on posting? This is not the case in the presentation. I know this is an open issue, but it was 20 years in Afghanistan, and Iraq is still going on. It would be nice to know what the wallet sees in this matter. Then what budget plans do we have for this mission? As I am aware of the mission of mentoring in the front line, our soldiers sent out must not forget that they may be injured in a possible battle situation, I will not speak of worse. In what form will their care be provided, in what bond and in what way are their lives and health protected? I'd like your answer to these, please. To conclude, I would like to mention once again, although I have mentioned several times that we support the launch of this mission. At the same time, we are asking the wallet to formally address the other countries of the European Union, NATO Member States and the leadership of other NATO Member States, in a diplomatic letter, so that not only a small Central European country can help France to overcome a migratory pressure coming or coming from Africa. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-09-28-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-97	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Szilárd Németh, State Secretary, explained in detail in his expoze almost all aspects of the general joint debate. I would therefore like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that it is T/17145. The parliamentary group of the KDNP supports the recognition of the mandatory scope of accession to Niger with a declaration of acceptance of the Additional Protocol. We also support T/17146. Recognizing the accession of Mali to the Additional Protocol. H/17144. With regard to the proposal for a resolution, we would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that, as part of Operation Barkhane, the TAKUBA may also be used to engage in the operation, according to Article 47 (2) of the Fundamental Law, that participation in the operation requires permission from the National Assembly. With this proposal for a decision, we would grant this authorisation and it is clear that the KDNP faction also supports this proposal for a decision. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-09-28-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party has supported numerous proposals and proposals, missions or decisions that have taken place within the framework of NATO, the EU, the United Nations, missions where our country's reputation has been enhanced, and very, very good work and professional work have been put on the table. The fact is that we want to continue to be able to support such proposals in the future. At the same time, the Secretary of State said that the government turned to Parliament on the proposal precisely because it was not a mission of this type, but, on the basis of the mandate of the Parliament, the necessity of this must be because it is not a NATO mission, it is not an EU mission, it is not a UN mission. It raises a lot of professional questions. In part, my opposition fellow Member asked a number of questions. A part of this could obviously push the framework of the plenary session, so on the proposal of our experts and member of the Defence Committee, Tamás Harangozó, my fellow group, I would ask that it be possible to hold a defence committee meeting by the end of the vote where, if necessary, the wallet can answer some questions about the mission in a closed session. I very much hope that, on the basis of the answers to these questions, our group will be in a position to support the presentation. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-28-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have a speech from Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who will speak here on the stand. I'll wait for Congresswoman to wake up on the stand. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Although the Secretary of State and our fellow Fidesz Member have tried to show what kind of mission this is, I think that most of my fellow Members and a large part of the population do not know what is really going on in this area. This proposal is a proposal consisting of three elements, in which, on the one hand, we will adopt two international conventions on Mali and Nigeria, which we have concluded with these two countries on the initiative of France, or Parliamentary mandate, so that Hungarian soldiers can participate in the operations that await this community. [[12.50]] The Parliamentary resolution presents quite precisely the legal framework and the need for this mission itself, but I must say that it does not really explain exactly why this is necessary and why we are obliged to send Hungarian soldiers, of course on voluntary basis, to Africa to carry out this mission there with other national soldiers. Sahel, there is no international NATO assembly or some sort of security policy conference where this would not be a specific topic. Incredibly, many experts and professionals have been going through that area in order to report to the international community on what has developed there and what a danger it is for all mankind, but especially for Europe, if these conditions are not eradicated there as soon as possible. These interwoven deep-rooted problems have turned the Sahel into one of the most vulnerable regions in the world, and each country has serious problems in itself. But with Al-Qaeda settled on the problems of this area, and practically taking advantage of the extremely miserable fate of the citizens there, he built himself a base and created an incredibly powerful source of material supply that could actually have the level of safety-threatening consequences that the modern world and the developed world have to respond to. The Sahel is a semi-demerged region south of Sahara that practically crosses Africa from Senegal to Sudan, creating a transition between the Sahara desert and the more rainy savannahs. CHAPTER XX In the 18th century, the population grew dramatically, and climate change added to its own. As a result, desertification and population growth have exploited the available areas to such an extent as to impair the use of agricultural land, in fact, to an irreversible natural destruction. The wooded areas were processed as building materials and firewood, the growing livestock breathed the savannahs, the lack of precipitation and wind damage removed the fertile layer from the soil surface, and much of the land became unmanageable. Between 50 and 70 percent of cattle were killed and the Sahara area was 100 kilometres south. As early as 1973, famine and disease caused the death of 100,000 people, which became worse in the 1980s. Although it is a fact that some governments have started planting forests to eliminate this problem, it has certainly not yet had any serious results. By 2016, the number of hungry people in the region had become 23 million and there were 6 million people who needed virtually immediate help. The Sahel is one of the world's poorest regions, Senegal, Mauritania, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Chad, Sudan and some parts of Nigeria, South Sudan, Algeria and Eritrea. The area is 3 million square kilometres, the population is now about 130 million, but by 2050 there are 340 million demographers. This Sahel is a transitional area where North African Arab and Black African tribes live. So groups of Muslims and Christian religions were forced on each other after the border was drawn, and practically created an extremely disadvantageous situation at the time by marking the borders of countries, not by creating nation states, but by mixing people of different religions and races, human races, and by eliminating tribal relations, so the colonizers left these countries. So the regional fornications, the cultural conflicts, the various tribal wars created an uncertainty that was very easy for al-Qaeda to settle on. By the way, in Mali, the Tuareg tribes often rebelled against the government after the biggest crisis in recent times, after becoming independent. There was a serious rebellion every decade, and then there were very serious conflicts here in 2012, because Al-Qaeda practically settled in the conflicts there, continued to breed it and created virtually irresolvable conflicts, which the citizens would have to deal with. We all know that when Al-Qaeda was formed, opposition to the United States was clearly the main element for Osama bin Laden. We know that his behavior after the Arab Spring, or that while the Americans had previously delivered weapons to them for their fight, which was then born in the Arab Spring, has generated the strengthening of al-Qaeda, that is, its formation, and since then it has been increasing ever since. The disappointment and hunger of the people there, the lack of opportunities, and by not treating governments as serious enough to try to solve their problems, al-Qaeda continues to sustain jihad, and jihadist organizations take advantage of all the spiritual and existential situations that the people there are forced to endure. It is also important to know that drug trafficking and drug transport are virtually unobstructed from South America through this area, which will provide additional financial support to sustain the situation of domination here. Terrorists work with different desert tribes to transport shipments through the Sahara and then arrive in Europe. Unfortunately, it has to be said that governments are very weak at solving these problems, and to be honest, I am very pleased that some countries have already initiated the emergence of international military forces themselves, because they know precisely that what is there is impossible to eliminate. Al-Qaeda also does so in order to achieve its long-term goals, that in remote areas, where the government cannot effectively intervene in any kind of illegal activity, they develop more positive relations with people, they are brought into society. An amazing amount of marriages have been made between Al-Qaeda terrorists and local citizens, so that these family relationships can also help to build the sustainability of their sovereignty. In fact, a Hungarian average citizen can't imagine what kind of life there is in that area. The reason I don't like it very much is that in a modern European country, any government uses a warlike, warlike rhetoric, because it makes it natural for people to bear this style or attitude, although fortunately, neither in our country nor in Europe have such relations. I think we should rejoice in the peace that surrounds us. It is also important for us to recognise the horror of people's lives in these zones, because we need to know that, with modern technology, with the wider circulation of transport, people to whom life in this area is already unbearable can very easily achieve prosperity in Europe. They're closest to us. I have to say, I often criticize the government's migration rhetoric, the potential for threats, but it has to be said that there is a very good chance that, in addition to Afghanistan, millions will start at some point, even assuming that they may not arrive alive. Now allow me to respond a few words to the suggestion of my fellow Member Mr Róbert Dudás, why not NATO. If you had asked me or a lot of politicians who had some insight into these conditions, these situations there, you would have said that NATO wouldn't have happened. [[13.00]] It must be recognised that the role of the United States and the international role of the United States and the various interventions that have taken place in the various African and Asian countries over the past decades have developed that repulsion in the population there, not only in terrorist organisations, not only in governments, not only in the more dominant communities, but also in the ordinary people, which, among other things, has created al-Qaida itself. (Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) These countries, which asked France to create this community, knew precisely that the United States and NATO could not be officially present there, even if they could help by means of means, because civil society could not be called for cooperation and assistance. I can't! So in this community, if you look at countries that are potentially involved, these countries are of a more neutral type. These countries are the ones that strive, if they play a role anywhere, for peaceful, helpful international cooperation, and it must be said that I very, very much appreciate and respect politicians, diplomats who have tried to create and create this community, who can help the people in this Sahel area to get rid of terrorism. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) This isn't gonna be a piece of cake. There's definitely going to be battle events here. This is where Hungarian soldiers are likely to be sent by the wallet, who, with their knowledge and commitment, will serve very much the goal they want to achieve. And when we talk about the primary responsibility of Hungarian soldiers to protect Hungary, yes, but we also need to see that and not stick our heads in the sand. Without the knowledge and knowledge of sharp situations, however they simulate military operations today, and in practice they are trying to create sharp situations in order to be high-quality training, but everyone knows that there is a huge difference between a real battle situation and a simulated one. It is natural that a single Hungarian citizen does not want to send his countrymen to their deaths, which is why the application will be voluntary in this role, but I am very happy that these soldiers will bring home to Hungary an experience that, otherwise, if God does not give it, we should be able to defend ourselves against someone, and we can make very good use of it. Everyone knows I am a messenger of peace, I hate war, and I don't even like to mention it in rhetoric, but the fact is that the European Community, the countries of Europe, are extremely vulnerable to the potential flow of refugees from both this area and Afghanistan. Unfortunately, there are countries, developed countries, who have done everything in their power to create conflicts that result from these problems, of course climate change and population growth cannot be attributed to this, but these conditions have been combined. Of course, I will support this proposal, and I very much ask for the defence wallet, because this mission will be very different, let's say, similar to Afghanistan, but it will be very different from the others, do so at intervals, report to Parliament that: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what is happening in the Sahel. Thank you very much.
u2021-09-28-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Szilárd Németh, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2021-09-28-103	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank you with respect for the support speeches. I saw that we were talking about the same thing, and we have the same goals and interests, and this is a very good moment in the Hungarian Parliament, and it is very nice to hear this moment. Everyone said that our soldiers will be thousands of kilometres from us, but they will still serve Hungarian interests and will serve the safety of the Hungarian people, because the security risk posed by the migration and terrorist threat from this area to Hungary, the Hungarian people and Europe, this is in any case the objective of Operation TAKUBA, which we will be a part of, if the Parliament decides to do so, will serve this purpose. The questions that you have asked, Mr President, are simple to answer, because these are questions that appear here and there, for each of our missions, I mean. The missionary language is English, so the language of operation will be English; MedEvac has the ability to handle any injuries on the site, and can be delivered and rescued. But I suggest you ask these questions to the Defense and Police Committee. Thank you for your proposal, Mr Varga, who requested that the Defence and Police Committee discuss it in more detail in a closed session. I will initiate this, and then the professionals will answer the questions you ask there. One more thing everyone has said is that this is a European mission, so Europeans in this region must ensure that they can protect Europe. I mentioned that eight countries are already in a coalition in Operation TAKUBA. This has been happening since the beginning of 2020. By the way, France, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Sweden, Italy, Portugal, the Netherlands and Belgium, and if Parliament so decides, we Hungarians will be present on this as the ninth. I would also suggest that we ask professionals about this background, because dissecting this background is not entirely public. I see that, and we can be pleased that what's going on in the public eye has been said here today. So there was the pro-government proposal, the pro-government contributions, the opposition contributions, these points in the same direction, and our meeting today was completely public, where we could speak about these two legislative proposals and the parliamentary decision proposal, which means Hungarian military participation in Operation TAKUBA. Thank you again for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-09-28-104	Thank you very much, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the betterman, who has applied for a statement after the agenda:, For how long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-09-28-105	Mr President, Dear House, The first one or two parliamentary weeks always bring out a kind of sobriety for opposition representatives, as, in the midst of the government's victory reports, many might believe that Hungary's strategic, national strategy things are basically going the right way. On the other hand, the truth is that 35-40 thousand children are born in Hungary every year compared to those who die. We also see that when we look at the future of the population, we have disastrous, sobering results. Recently, the government held the demographic summit that it considered and continues to be a kind of demonstration of strength, an army. We see that during the last year's press conferences on this issue, we became less Hungarian with the population of Nagykanizsa; in the month when the briefings took place, even though we lost our compatriots corresponding to the population of Siklós, more precisely, this is how much fewer children were born in Hungary than the number of children who died. [[13.10]] We can also see that both Hungary and Hungary of the countryside and the capital were in two extremely conflicting orbits, as the proportion of people under the age of 18 fell below 15 percent in one fifth of the settlements. This means that at one fifth of all Hungarian settlements, it is only a matter of time before that village or village is completely eliminated. What we see is that these problems do not exist, and in the Parliamentary Chamber, in good case, they will reach the post-meeting period. And what we see is that Hungarian reality is influenced by a lot by the current parliamentary debates, the wage issue, the issue of family tax incentives, and what will happen in the next election, but what matters in the long run is that, according to the current projections, we will first be a country of 8 million and then 6.5 million. The thing is, putting a national economy on a sustainable path is impossible. If we do not move towards our own reproduction, then we are faced with an unsolvable situation. The government's response to the shortage of labour is not a solution, as hundreds of thousands of foreign workers are deployed here, but it is perhaps not a tempting vision for any of us that Hungarian agriculture is supported by Chinese, Mongolian and exotic workers, while the construction of multi-company companies is also supported by foreign workers in container cities. We also see that if we are looking for a solution, first of all, we need to face up to it. In essence, 75 percent of the Hungarian population, citizens, live below the poverty threshold in the EU. It is no coincidence that in Hungary there is simply no minimum life calculation according to the previous methodology, we do not meet the data on an annual basis that determine the real minimum amount required for minimum subsistence and examine how many people are below this threshold. We have said many times that without increasing the humiliatingly low wage level in Hungary, without raising it, and without creating the necessary motivational environment for this, we cannot make a substantial move uphill, and further, the absence of a pension system could be replaced by higher pension contributions after higher wages, and from these we can then, say, raise pensions differentiatedly. But housing cataclysm is another crisis that can't be done without averting it. We see the attempts with the CSOK and the 192,000 contracts signed. Typically, the more fortunate people in society were able to move from one to the other, or just those who did not need it, but let's say, the number of souls that were always fluctuating between 1.5 and 2 million compatriots in the panel did not in essence obtain the support they needed for their housing goals. Thirdly, improving the working climate around workers could help to stay in the country and thrive in the homeland. We have developed the institution of the Labour Commissioner, a self-employed ombudsman. We didn't make this up at the desk, we'd introduce it to an Australian sample, because this system works successfully. Here, in addition to free legal aid, you could turn to a public actor, an actor, who, in the event of a suspected infringement, would advance the cost of his litigation to the employee. We would therefore like to create a climate where the multitude of labour lawsuits is not multiplying, but what we see is that they have fallen back to almost a fraction of them, so that interest enforcement is not at the top, but we can see that there is a social safety net around the workers that is capable in all respects of creating their prosperity and everyday sense of security. We therefore call on the government to support, as a first step, the introduction of the institution of the Labour Ombudsman. Thank you for your attention and patience, Mr President. [[Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm and Dr. Adam Steinmetz applaud.]]
u2021-09-28-106	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. At the same time, Mr Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, spoke after the agenda, with the title "Balatonfenyvesi" on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2021-09-28-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The 125-year-old town of Balatonfenyves is also well known for its pine trees and pine trees, which are especially popular in the Balaton region, both inside and outside the settlement. And not only is it famous, but the people here are very fond of their renewed beaches and playgrounds, I myself and my children often visit the playground here, especially the pineal playground. But it is also a popular resort among families with small children, if they can get to the bottom of Balatonfenyves. I'll talk about that later when I mention the Balatonfenyves cases. But the sports life of Balatonfenyves also flourishes, as the Lake Balatonfenyves Sailing Sports Association has a 25-year history, which provides a framework for lovers of sailing, and the pier of Fenyves, which has been judged by many, has also given new impetus to sailing life here. I mentioned traffic and getting there. I can say that parking problems are decades of problems in Balatonfenyves, but it was also difficult to get to Balatonfenyves by rail this summer, as trains rarely stopped. But why is that? Ladies and gentlemen, you may remember at the end of the spring session, when I mentioned here among the walls of this House that the train stopped at Balatonmáriafürdő, at the Maria Wave Camp, only at 4:51 a.m., making it difficult for visitors to travel here, on a railway that was renovated a few years ago by Lőrinc Mészáros' companies with HUF 72 billion in public money. This has obviously caused a scandal, Mayor György Galácz and I have spoken to him, and I have also addressed a written question to the competent ITM State Secretary. Since then, these traffic problems have been solved in Balatonmariafürdő, but this has cost a great deal, and I will tell you why. Please allow me to quote the Hungarian State Railways:. As a result of the comments received due to the absence of stops in Balatonmáriafürdő, it was decided that since 17 May 2021 trains do not stop on the Balatonfenyves bottoms, but in the Mária Wavelet. So, on the one hand, what was good for the people of the Maria Wave Camp was now a black soup for those living in the otherwise neighbouring settlement, who can't stop by rail, the renovated railway, the platform, the railway station, for example, to go shopping for Fonyod, they can't go to the hospital in Kaposvár, or the visitors can't stop by train on the Balatonfenyves bottom, it's possible at the neighbouring stops. Now imagine that vacationers have to carry their bags and their bags for miles to get to their quarters. I think it's unworthy, beyond the fact that it's outrageous. We should have thought more about increased summer traffic in the renovation of this railway line, not to mention that the South Balaton railway also provides an extraordinary amount of freight traffic. So it really is time to think about reorganizing the timetables. The Public Railways responded to a residential complaint, and let me also quote:. The MÁV investigates the options, the notified group trips to or from the camps near the Balatonfenyves stop can be stopped on request on a case-by-case train stop. Here is the emphasis on the announcement and the case. So it is shocking that, once again, we will renovate a railway line with HUF 72 billion, the stops will be renewed, and the train will only stop in advance and in a case-by-case manner. In any case, this also makes life miserable for those on the Balatonfenyves bottoms. I would like to change that, and only the good and the good things will come to mind in the future, if we live on the shore of Lake Balaton, or if we are on the shore of Lake Balaton. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2021-09-28-108	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Steinmetz. An independent Member, Andrea Varga-Damm, has applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Truth is the only way to change government." You have the floor, Congresswoman. (In the notary seat Dr. László Varga Replaced by gullible Dezso.)
u2021-09-28-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Many voters are looking forward to a change of government in 2022. Let's be honest, there's a pretty strong reason for that. [[13.20]] The rule over the past 12 years, the directing of budgetary resources and EU funds to certain oligarchs, the amazing wealth growth that has been won by the oligarchs around the governing parties, have made governance so distasteful for most of the citizens, which naturally shaped the need for change. But we also need to know that this cannot be achieved if the opposition is not honest with citizens. Of course, we know that the large number of citizens are happy to hear that the chief prosecutor will be sent to prison; they are happy to hear that bank accounts will be blocked; they are glad to hear that laws of two-thirds will be abolished with half laws; they are happy to say that we will solve health problems in a hundred days; they are happy to hear opposition politicians make statements that please them. The Prime Minister's candidates have had two debates over the past period, and it has been shocking to me how unfounded and misleading promises have been made to people. A responsible politician says and says what can be asked of him. Most of the people now have a problem of having nothing to do with the representatives of the governing parties; then opposition representatives and opposition politicians cannot get into the status that they will not be able to count on their promises. What I've heard in promises over the last few weeks would be budget cuts in a month. And then what will they tell the opposition voters that they have gone to vote, and that the opposition may win and form a government, and then in the second month they will think about how pensions are paid? It's amazing to me that just in order for politicians to gain momentary benefits, they can do whatever unsubstantiated lie they want. We have to admit, within ten years of the Constitutional Court, if the opposition wins, there will be no left-wing majority. We have to admit that in March the Parliament will elect a President of the Republic, which is likely to be nominated by Fidesz, thus becoming the President of the current Government Party Republic from March 2022 to March 27. For many years, Péter Polt will be the Attorney General, László Domokos will be the SAO president, the president of the OBH, the President of the Curia is elected for long and long years. None of the opposition politicians can do that without counting on them, and they do not give or show people their promises on such grounds. The next parliament, if it becomes opposition, can bring in half laws, which you can be sure that the President of the Republic, if he sees lawlessness, will not sign and will send it back, or worse, will send it to the Constitutional Court and will destroy it. We all need to be aware that the next government will have to operate in the current legal environment. Although you will be able to accept the budget with half a law, everything that has been created by the legislation of the last 12 years can be changed exclusively from those that can be done by half a law. But then I ask the question to opposition politicians: is there legislation in Hungary that excludes the possibility of good governance? There isn't! Good governance does not depend on the laws that the Fidesz majority has passed over the past 12 years, but on good governance that someone wants to govern well; wants to create the common good; wants to create a better life for citizens; does he want today's dissatisfaction to really become contentment? One fact: you can't steal, because then a fraction of all these promises won't work. But at this point, you ask yourself, those who have been in government before, and they've proven to be clumsy, how they get into this community. What made them change? So I can ask both Parliamentary politicians and voters to look at values. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-09-28-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. I wish you a good day, and the sitting will be closed.
