u2021-05-31-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 26th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Allow me to apologize to this House for a significant delay as usual, there is a foreign delegation in the building, and our program has slipped a bit. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Kocsis-Cake Olivio, member of the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, First of all, on behalf of the Dialogue, we would like to thank everyone involved in the fight against the epidemic, we wish the hospital staff as soon as possible to get well, and we express our sincere condolences to the families and friends of the deceased. The Prime Minister has been making more and more hair-scarring statements lately, and in programmes where Rogán Antal is sending the questions in advance, which means he is probably not embarrassed by the hard cross-questions. We've been here, and we're gonna cure everyone, and we're gonna inoculate all the people in Hungary over a weekend, but it's gonna get worse, and now he's the average person on wages and salaries. It gets worse because the Prime Minister lives in his own reality, where the truth is what he and the fidesz media create. It doesn't matter what the facts are, but less and less people will believe this created world. [[13.20]] Last time, he pretended to be the son of the people, like he was 99 percent, not one percent privileged. He was lying as much as Lachaza. I was able to say that as with all wages and salaries, he too was affected by the crisis, because he too lived on wages and salaries. On the one hand, I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that he has a salary and a fee. As far as his fee was concerned, in the spring of 2019 he was still a gross HUF 990 thousand, and this spring he became HUF 1 million 211 thousand. I mean, he wasn't in any way affected by the crisis, in fact. Interestingly, the government's favourite entrepreneur wasn't affected by the epidemic, the yachting, holidaying László Szíyj, who made a total of 7 billion profits last year. But he doesn't make a living on wages or salaries, but on other people's wages and salaries, or taxes. Let's not mention Squire the Butcher, who is also not a loser of the crisis. Typically, the Orbán government gave three times as much money to Lőrinc Mészáros' hotel in Eger as it supported the city. So once again, while the Eger municipality and the population affected by the epidemic received a total of HUF 825 million from the budget to replace the lost revenues, the Eger hotel of Lőrinc Mészáros could receive HUF 2.8 billion from the budget. Neither the wage and salary people here, nor the 99 percent here, but the 1 percent privileged. Homeland and law enforcement workers, however, were really affected by the epidemic, the crisis: 70 percent of them are planning to leave the field. According to a survey carried out by a union, three quarters of them feel that they are experiencing underpaid, overworked, social, existential problems. Is the Prime Minister really comparing himself to them? Rather, the Prime Minister should ask the question: why are the people who live on wages and salaries, why has 99 percent suffered ill under his prime ministership, under the Fidesz government, and why are the entrepreneurs near Fidesz, why are the 1 percent privileged ones doing well? The answer is because of the government's misguided policy. In vain, the Dialogue suggested that there should be at least 80% wage supplement, wage support, 100 percent sickness benefit paid to those who need to stay at home, compensation for catering, tourism entrepreneurs, the sector most affected by the epidemic should be extended and the unemployment benefit increased. They all didn't. What happened instead? Billions of Lőrinc Mészáros hotels and billions for the World Hunting Exhibition. We heard the Fidesz spokesperson, who also lived on wages and salaries, that the pre-election was an act. Well, Fidesz is holding a national consultation, and the opposition is holding a pre-election. Then the voters will decide which is the play: the charade where there are questions of manipulated and making statements, or the one where there is a substantive debate and a meaningful choice? One thing is certain: the presidential candidate elected in the primary election, Gergely Christmas, we hope, wants to serve the people who live on wages and salaries, will serve the majority, the 99 percent, as opposed to the privileged 1 percent. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-05-31-2	Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, is responsible for answering the question.
u2021-05-31-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me, you were talking about vaccination and protection against the coronal virus first, and let me talk about it first. Based on the data of 31 May 2021, the first vaccination was given to 5 146 949 people in Hungary and the second vaccine was given to more than 3.6 million people. 53 percent of Hungarians have already been vaccinated, as opposed to the EU average. For those registered so far, the vaccination rate is above 90 per cent. We think we can fight the virus with the vaccine. The Hungarian vaccination campaign is successful, and international organisations acknowledge this, and we would encourage everyone to register and pick up the vaccine as soon as possible and do not listen to the anti-vaccination sounds. With regard to your second comment, if I may, I do not think you are aware of a concept, you do not know the basis of a concept. Allow me to explain something to you about this, if you'll allow me. What you are talking about is democracy, the popular representation, because the Hungarian Prime Minister is elected by the Hungarian people, the Hungarian Prime Minister is the bosses of the Hungarian people. He is only an employee of the Hungarian people. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I wish that was the case.]] The Hungarian Prime Minister is not elected by the Brussels elite, not by the post-communist oligarchs, not by György Soros and his company. You may prefer this solution, but that is not what popular sovereignty and democracy are about. It was, among other things, the Hungarian Prime Minister, who struggled 30 years ago to have free elections in Hungary, and no one can ever decide, instead of the Hungarians, who is representing them, and, indeed, from time to time, they must earn their trust in elections. So far, the left hasn't made much progress in the last 12 years. We will try to keep it that way. But I think it's the right thing to do when everyone's sweeping around their own house about it. Your other comment, that's 99 percent, 1 percent. However, I believe that there is a reason why many people are talking about the program announced by Gergely Christmas that is more like 99 percent Ferenc Gyurcsány and 1 percent Gergely Christmas program. This is not a coincidence, because we see it, and we have seen it before, when the left-wing has dealt with a crisis in Hungary, that the left is always taking money from people, the left is always taking money from businesses, always scratching them in crisis and trying to lift their burdens. This was the case in 2008-2009, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, when the 13th month pension was closed during a crisis period, the duration of the child was reduced, the general rate of VAT was increased, the family allowance was taxed, the retirement age was increased, a month's wages were taken from the public sector, a property tax was introduced, and the IMF loan was indebted to the country. It could be said, and you often try to cover up that you have changed, and now you will not, but the fact is that the proposals you make public show that you haven't changed a bit. Ferenc Gyurcsány continues to define the social and economic policy of the left as a post-communist oligarch. I am just looking at the proposals you have made in recent years: raising personal income tax to three-key is a tax increase everywhere. Of course, I know, of course, it always starts with the richest one, and then interestingly, from the lower middle class, everyone has a higher key. This has been the case, and it will continue to be so, as can be seen from the proposals. They want to raise corporate taxes, introduce petrol and heating taxes, cut family subsidies. How soulless it is to put such a proposal openly on the table in the midst of a coronal virus epidemic! And what is it about the basic income you proclaim as a eulogy? It's to get work instead of benefits. I want to help the Hungarians again, not give them a job. Indeed, that is not how we think. We are thinking that all Hungarians should be given work even if they are in an epidemic situation, even if there are economic difficulties and wages must be constantly increased. In March 2021, gross earnings amounted to HUF 435,000, which was 8.7 percent higher than in the previous year. That's the way we started. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the Hungarians have supported this path so far, and we want to continue on this path. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-31-4	Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, member of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go. [[13.30]]
u2021-05-31-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The European Council last week included climate policy issues, not by accident, as the consequences of extreme weather conditions are increasingly serious. The leaders of the European Union have decided earlier on the need to achieve a 55 per cent reduction in CO2 by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. This is very important if we do not want to put the future of the younger generation at risk, and therefore the European Council must take the decisions that ensure that these objectives are achieved as soon as possible. After the summit of the European Council, Viktor Orbán spoke about the fact that the costs of climate change have to be paid by large companies. This is very right, but very few of the Prime Minister of a country, and it must be said that this cannot be believed from the mouth of Viktor Orbán. Just remember that the Hungarian government has been lobbying in Brussels over the past few years against stricter climate targets, and in practice protecting the interests of German car manufacturers against the interests of the Hungarian people; and car manufacturers are largely responsible for CO2 emissions. The Hungarian government supports the automotive industry and the production of vehicles at home with huge amounts of money instead of taxing them. Even during the epidemic, he did so when he was supposed to help people who lost their jobs, who lost their income. The Prime Minister is right, of course, that global large enterprises play an important role in climate change, and therefore should not be allowed to continue their polluting, climate-destructive activities, and should be forced to produce cleaner production through environmental taxation. On the other hand, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is very wrong that the issue of climate change can be dealt with. In addition to tax policy instruments, there are major energy policy and support policy tasks, because only these combined measures can achieve real, meaningful results. It cannot be said enough that there is no alternative to energy saving, to increasing energy efficiency. The world is moving towards renewable energy production, but we are cementing ourselves into the use of extremely expensive nuclear energy. In renewables other than solar energy, the government does not think at all, and in addition, it installs solar power plants on green surfaces or land; both are bad solutions, because increasing the green surface is essential for achieving climate neutrality and the soil provides our food. Solar power plants should be installed on rooftops and roofs of public buildings. Dear House, We have plenty of reserves in terms of CO2 reduction. In Hungary, households and transport account for 60% of emissions. The LMP has already done so many times and calls attention to the fact that a complex building energy programme could significantly reduce CO2 emissions, achieve significant energy savings and increase the use of renewable energy sources. The insulation of 100,000 homes per year would result in a noticeable and lasting reduction in household costs, and the EU recovery plan could provide resources for this, but only a political will is required. If the government does not start in this direction, the Hungarian families will pay the price of climate change, not the large companies that are destroying climate change, despite all propaganda. Community transport should be developed in order to reduce transport emissions. We call on the government to take action to combat climate change instead of alarm and propaganda. Let us review, together, the emasculated climate bill adopted in Parliament last year. Let's set a tighter climate target. Hungary must also take 55 percent instead of 40 percent. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If voters vote for confidence in the opposition in 2022, we will certainly act in this spirit. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-31-6	To reply, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is very sad that you want to make political questions over and over again from a matter that affects the future of all our children and grandchildren. We think this is a serious mistake, because this is a topic that is worth not making political questions about, or bringing the elections here. This is a serious issue, and it would be our request that you do not want to make this a right-wing and left-wing issue, because climate change affects everyone, whether someone is left-wing, like you or national-citizen sentiment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are saddened to find that not only are they doing this, but they are talking about green issues, climate issues, doing nothing [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Even when they have the opportunity to do something, they are working in the opposite direction. We remember well that last year the Parliament passed the Act on Climate Protection and also adopted a parliamentary resolution. This law and this parliamentary decision state that Hungary will be climate neutral by 2050. This proposal was submitted by the left and was subsequently not voted for by the left. The sober national-citizen side was the one who adopted this law, adopted this parliamentary resolution, and so our country is one of the few European countries that is willing to become climate-neutral by 2050. Not many countries have done this, honourable Member, not many countries have decided that, not many countries have agreed to do this. We have done this without you, because this is an important issue for us, even if you are not willing to cooperate on this issue. Instead of cooperating, instead of taking into account the interests of the Hungarian people, they are constantly making a political issue out of this, just so that you can be part of the Gyurcsány show. And, honourable Member, it is also clear that you have a man in office. They have a man in office: Gergely Christmas, who also often talks about environmental issues, green issues, and while doing so, does something completely different. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You know it's one thing to talk about the environment, but it's different to act. Gergely Christmas removes a quarter of the Dumpsters in the capital, introduces appearance measures by installing all kinds of insect hotels and causes traffic jams and unnecessary emissions by painting completely unthinkable bicycle lanes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On the other hand, the government is acting, which is why it has developed, adopted and implemented the national energy strategy, the national energy and climate plan, and we have also adopted the basis for a clean development strategy, but we have also developed and continuously implemented the climate and nature conservation action plan, despite the corona virus epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are well aware that our country is a climate problem between the EU countries, as we have already reduced our CO2 emissions by 33 percent by 2018 compared to 1990, and we have also succeeded in achieving GDP growth while otherwise emissions have decreased. This is an achievement, honourable Member, that few countries could do after Hungary. Allow me also to draw your attention to the fact that, indeed, the Hungarian Government's position is that the costs of climate protection must be paid not to the people, but to the large polluters, the climate destroyers. Hungary is opposed to the fact that these costs are to be paid by Hungarian people, Hungary is opposed to the fact that the European Union, Brussels, has forced us to raise its costs in Hungary. My request is that you do not want to increase the cost of rent for every Hungarian family every year by HUF 300,000. We are going to resist this and we are going to work to make these costs pay to the big climate destroyers, the big climate polluters. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-8	Now it's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn. [[13.40]]
u2021-05-31-9	Seeing the infinite interest that government representatives have in my person, I thought I'd satisfy you 100 percent, not just 99 percent. [[Defiance on the opposition side. Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're making fun of me at Christmas!]] If that's what you want, you can settle for me now. Although I can see that the Prime Minister, who is sending a message on the radio that he wishes to fight me, remains cowardly from these debates for the time being [[Csaba Dömötör: He will come today!]] and sending his third-rate State Secretarys [[Dr. Pál Völner: Thank you!]] In order to avoid these struggles hiding behind them. Actually, I'm not surprised, because everything we see as a government is not a government. In Hungary, the government is apparent, in fact we see the opposition to us here. The opposition to the opposition, which, although far from being elected, has for some time been able to deal with the political leaders of the opposition, their background and the personal, political and other relationships they have assumed. I'd like to tell you something: how about you steer? It's certainly harder than talking nonsense, a lot of hurtful things, false accusations disguised as analysis, but you've applied to govern. No? ! What's more, while we're talking about popular sovereignty, we're talking about the nation, so what if we try to decide the nation's most important things with the people, with the nation, based on common decisions? Did our joint decision, at any time, discuss that from 500 billion forints we will bring to Hungary a university under the influence of the Chinese Communist Party's intellectual and political influence? Have you had a debate about this, ladies and gentlemen? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Was, last week!]] Or, like a secret council, they just announced it? Have you ever argued that we want our universities privatized without any consideration? Have you discussed it with our children, their own children, the emerging new age groups? No! As a secret council, you announced it. Have you ever argued that it is okay that 28 500 HUF remains the minimum old-age pension, and a range of social benefits is adapted to this? Have you discussed this with anyone? They didn't discuss it. Have you discussed whether we want a new nuclear power plant or not? That we're going to leave the burden of this to the next generation? We didn't talk about it! At some point, the Prime Minister comes home from Moscow and says we're gonna have another nuclear power plant. Have we discussed how we want to build a new railway between Belgrade and Budapest for an amazing amount of money, to deliver Hungary to China? Hungary does not want to be a colony of China or Russia! Did you discuss this with us? They didn't discuss it. You are talking to us, or you want to talk to us about the fact that the word "false" violates your dignity or the dignity of this House. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Protecting Jobbik! Hm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is very low, this is far from the pathos that you would try to represent from time to time. The nation, the country, the country, the Hungarian citizens do not deserve this. You are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about who your father, your grandfather, your husband, you, please, are doing a family tree research. You can do this, no problem, but how about you take care of your country? Trust me, it'll do you better. You are dealing with the fact that for nine years a mayor has been held in power in Budapest, who has not been able to speak in any language the language of the current mayor. Well, it's better than the Deputy Prime Minister, as far as I can tell, who's excellent at hunting, and, by the way, is a disgrace to his nation. You are talking about the political circle where there is a substantive political consultation, where you will decide in an open political debate what we offer to the country, and we will decide by pre-election who your challengers will be, well, you will, please, deal with this. I'd like to say something: mind your country. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Or you know what, if they want to be in opposition, they'll be in opposition. I can promise you that your wish will be granted. Go to the opposition, that's where they'll go. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-31-10	It is up to Csaba Dömötör to answer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-31-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The thing is, we're feeling a little weird because we might be able to convince ourselves of some of what he has to say. We said that what we see on the other side is 99 percent Gyurcsány and 1 percent Christmas, but it may also be as you say it is 100 percent Gyurcsány and even less Christmas. That could be it. Looking at the last few days, that's not out of the question. Let me correct one thing: the Prime Minister will be involved in the debates, he will be involved today, he will answer the questions. I encourage you to ask questions, but in most cases, you're not here. As far as language is concerned, the problem is not that someone doesn't speak a language, Mr. Head of the Group, but the problem is that they say they speak a language, and then they get caught not talking, which is a sham, which, in the case of a candidate for Prime Minister, doesn't fit. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If there were no governance, let me just say the decisions of the last few months, then there would be no decision on the tax exemption for young people. You didn't even try to do that, you didn't even think about it. Then there would be no decision to rebuild the 13th month pension you took. Then we wouldn't have started a program for the Hungarian village. As far as universities are concerned, I note in parentheses that when you were the Prime Minister, you supported Hungarian-China higher education cooperation in the same way, but as far as universities are concerned [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He received Putin in his own house!]] Then we would not be able to report that this government spends 735 billion forints more on education than your governments. That's the difference in plus, which is a significant difference. Much has happened in the last few days, Honourable Group Leader, including the fact that you are calling the Prime Minister to a political battle. And I must say that this is a clear speech. We understand that now. This is not the type of sneaking we have seen in recent years, while everyone knew that the Democratic Coalition was the main organizing power on the left, and you are giving the beat, but for various reasons a lot of people have tried to deny it. By openly taking on this fight, this denial attitude has become indestructible. Don't get me wrong, I don't think it's a good development that 15 years after the fall, you're still the main man on the left, because it proves that there was no moral or political consequence of the lie speech, nor of the police force, nor of what followed, because you have weakened the country both in its holding and in its economy, not to mention moral deep flight. And a few years have passed, but we have no reason to think that they would behave a little differently or otherwise. We hear the same threat, where journalists, politicians are threatened, and we see the same package of economic policy proposals. When the country was in trouble, you took a lawnmower, you went through it in all areas, you took wages, you took pensions, you raised taxes, and you cut family support. They'd do the same thing if we looked at their current suggestions. Anyone who is unsure about accepting our assessment of the situation will look at what the left has done, supplemented by Jobbik during the plague. Health leaders were attacked when it was the least needed during an epidemic. They campaigned against vaccinations while vaccinations save lives. You first noted the parliamentary resolution, your name is the first one to hit some types of vaccine and even started a petition. Without your approval, one of these couldn't have gone. They would have opened when they had to close, and they wanted to close when they could open. That was your contribution to the fight against the epidemic. In such a difficult situation, every political community has its true self, and that is what has happened now. We've seen a left that can at any time, in any case, tear down its own country if their authority considerations so require. Dear Chief of Staff, Last week, many answered an interesting question about where they were at the time of the fall speech when they first heard it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Well, Autumn!]] You are now in the strange and delicate position of not being able to lie about this, since you were an perpetrator in Autumn, and with the same ease of unscrupulousness you talked about how you lied to the Hungarians' eyes. Well, that was very low, and the problem is that they haven't come up from that depth since, Mr. Gyurcsány. And it looks like we're gonna have to deal with the past again in the next few months. [[Gergely Harvestó: Because you have no idea of the future!]] Well, make sure we're ready for this fight. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2021-05-31-12	I now give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP.
u2021-05-31-13	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Not only businesses, but also us workers, who live on wages and salaries, I'm one of them, so we've been plagued by this epidemic. To the seriousness of the sentence, allow me to start with a quote from Tibor Bödőcs: the Prime Minister is not joking, I am not stealing either. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, the reality behind these sentences is much sadder than this, not something to joke about. The fact is that this sentence shows how cynical, lying, and corrupt the government that Viktor Orbán represents. Today, the Prime Minister says this when 92,000 people have not been able to find a job for more than a year, contrary to his promise! Do you remember what your prime minister promised? That in three months, everyone here will get a job. When there are a quarter of a million people out of work, and 128,000 of them, courtesy of you and your will, are not getting a penny of care, no income in this country. At a time when, by the way, my fellow Members, the Prime Minister himself and the people who live on wages and salaries, the very difference is that the former can decide who gets what, and the latter can only suffer it. Well, let's face it, we didn't see a Covid decree... so, I'm sorry, we saw that the authorities had to take their part in the defense, did we? We heard that talk. That the parties had to play their part in the defense. It's okay. Why didn't the Prime Minister, the members of the government and politicians and Members of Parliament have to do their part? I'm just gonna ask you quietly. It would have been the same Covid regulation as any other, and indeed there was such a proposal before this House, but it was, of course, hated. While 2.5 million people have been proven to earn less than before the crisis, or have lost their jobs, or have lost their income in particular, Viktor Orbán's income has certainly increased, and therefore, I think it is tasteless to say such sentences. But I'm gonna take it a little bit more personal because the Prime Minister tried to make it personal, what he felt and what he didn't feel. Tell me how you can teach one of your children at a Swiss private university for 15 million and the other in the United Kingdom for 40 million living on wages and salaries. Because if I add the two together, the math will come out, my fellow Members, that during the lifetime of an average wage and salary living, you will not be able to reimburse this much as a loan to an apartment or a house! Or from what wages and salaries can you make sure that your son-in-law, after getting rich in an EU tender and it turns out it was an irregularity, has the budget pay you back the money to avoid being held accountable? What kind of wage and salary can do this in this country? Or he used to buy two private jets, such business jets and two passenger carriers, and take turns flying them. What wages and salaries can do this in Hungary, fellow Members? Or would you have the Carmelite monastery remodeled for 21 billion just to look down on you and look down at your friend who lives on wages and salaries beyond the Danube? Finally, I'd like to ask which wage and salary-living man can turn his gasman friend into the richest man in the country within a few years with him still at large. These make it clear, fellow Members, how cynical the Prime Minister was who had the opportunity to do so for these people. But he didn't give them 100% sick, he didn't give them unemployment benefits, he didn't increase, he didn't give them any more money, he didn't provide free tests, and he didn't otherwise provide contact research or 80% wage support. I am only saying this because the difference between us and my fellow Members and Austria is that three times as many people died here, 11 thousand people and 30 thousand people, and the decisions that have not been taken just now are thick. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is, the Prime Minister would have had every opportunity to make these decisions. Those living on wages and salaries and Hungarian businesses suffered both their decisions and the coronal virus epidemic, and they couldn't do anything else. Next year, this bulge must be stopped. I want you to trust Gergely Christmas and the policy of redemption to 99 percent. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] They could give back what they just took from them. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-05-31-14	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-05-31-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We've seen you in crisis management, and a lot of people are having nightmares about what that time was. You said that people's incomes should be increased. Honourable Congressman, You have taken away the 13th month pension from Hungarian pensioners, precisely referring to crisis management, accepting IMF and Brussels recipes. And we are doing exactly the opposite when, in times of crisis, we are rebuilding the 13th month pension. This has already started with the first week's amount and will continue next year with the introduction of the second week's amount. And we do the same in all other ways. You took away their 13th month salary from doctors, nurses, police officers and all civil servants, teachers, and you took a month's salary from them during the crisis. Last year, we decided to increase the pay of doctors to nearly double, we decided to continue with the 72 percent increase of nurses, last year we also made a 14 percent increase for social workers and ten percent for teachers and 50 percent increase for school directors, honourable Member. That's the difference between this and your time when everyone got less when they took me away from everyone, employees, pensioners, companies, everyone. We have tried to give some more to everyone, or with a credit moratorium to help companies and businesses and individuals. Why have you not voted to continue the credit moratorium here in Parliament? It would have been a simple task, but it would have been a single push of a button, but the whole left didn't do it, even though it would have been a simple help from them. But what about the bill you are submitting in those amendments, honourable Member? Who do you help by raising the corporate tax of Hungarian companies from 10 to 19 percent? From 10 to 19! Not by 99 percent, but by more than double the taxes of Hungarian companies. Do you think this will make any Hungarian company internationally competitive? But that's what Gergely Christmas, you mentioned, was his suggestion. Or when you have tabled a proposal for an amendment on the left, even for this year's budget, which would have increased VAT revenues. Since VAT cannot be increased, this would have been achieved by raising preferential rates of VAT, medicines, pigmeat, poultry, milk, eggs, and abolishing them. Or a proposal has been submitted that would have led to a reduction in the budgetary framework for family allowances, maternity allowance, childcare care, child rearing support, start-up support or child protection grants. In order to introduce a jobless basic income that you consider important, all these subsidies would have been taken away from people. Your special tax proposal, which would have struck all Hungarians at the end, would have totalled HUF 565 billion if your proposal had been adopted at this year's budget. It's bad to think about it, Your Honour. What would have happened then to the Hungarian people, who were in a really difficult situation, as in the crisis of the coronal virus epidemic all over the world? What if they had stayed less than HUF 565 billion, and you, as I said, were not even willing to support the credit moratorium, honourable Member. But we can also remember that you didn't give people CSOK and housing subsidies, but that they were abolished, and you drove people into foreign exchange loans. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel laughs.]] And then this question, in their last years, was thought to resolve the cabinet after them, honourable Member. And what kind of redundancies have been made, for example, in teachers, 15,000 teachers have been dismissed. Why did they not care about them when there were difficult times in Hungary? Of course, they did this because, on the suggestion of liberals and foreign analysts, more than 300 people have ceased education in the countryside, and the premises of small schools have been closed, honourable Member. Why didn't you think of the children who were deprived of the opportunity to study on the ground? If you look at the draft budget for next year, you can see that despite economic difficulties throughout the world, there is more money available for all human areas. Health is 768 billion more. This means that we have increased health spending by 141 percent since 2010, which means about two and a half times higher health resources. [[14.00]] Public education is worth HUF 101 billion more, which means that since 2010, we have increased spending on education by 71 percent. And there's 57 billion forints more for social services, and that's 158 percent. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] growth since 2010. This means that those in need have more than two and a half times more than those in your time who failed them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-16	Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2021-05-31-17	Mr President, Dear House, I have listened to the State Secretary's production reports, sometimes Czechoslovak's justifications for the draft budget law before us. The period between the two wars was missed, but the government's secretary of state was marked by an ongoing explanation into the past. This is in order the weak people's own, because strong people face the present and plan the future [[Moors and interrogations from the ruling parties.]] You, on the other hand, are trying to refer me back to a time of history. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Whoo! More! More! More!]] Which, luckily, we've already left behind. I would like to tell you that the budget proposal before us eats up the Hungarian future [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Eat up the Hungarian future in order for some minions to benefit from only thinking about the property-privatization thief's law, by which the government lying to itself to the right and to the national government tried to cheat out some 900 billion forints of national wealth! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: For the needy!]] After that, after opposition parties, civilians, involved together, they articulated their voices at last! "You are reprimanded by this thief's proposal, we will only have to fight for the Castle of Buda; we will also fight to ensure that your minions, who have acquired the right to rent under strange circumstances, do not now receive, for pennies, the right of ownership for ever without the condition that they may hurl at the national wealth element concerned even the next day. I would like to tell you that Europe's cruelest budget has been put on the table, and every important proposal that is missed means a missed social group. In this way, the pro-state attic sweep is mixed in your budget with neoliberal cruelty. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We can see that when we talk about neoliberal cruelty, the most narrow unemployment supply system in all Europe is in Hungary [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: That's right!]] And you weren't willing to raise it in the middle of an epidemic on a humiliatingly short, three-month, and very low allowance, to a decent, viable level. We also see that they consciously erod and inflate certain family support measures, the family allowance has lost almost half of its value since 2010. We recommend doubling on a family card to buy only basic food and child-rearing articles. This is a priority from the point of view of child protection, which you also do not support. They didn't send a message to young Hungarians who didn't have a chance to live with the humiliating low-wage climate you created. There is no rental program [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is the tax exemption nothing?!]] You left it out of the budget. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Of course, they favor their own minions. You can put 10 million forints in your pocket with a ministerial salary, Mr. Secretary of State. In an average life situation, in rent, a discount loan is good if the intermediary bank decides to do so. This is your cruel neoliberal Hungary, where those close to the circle will receive the support, and the Hungarian youth and the Hungarian future will be left out of planning for several social groups. [[György Szilágyi: Shame!]] We have submitted to the budget a proposal to raise the support of ambulances, which I know you have not yet supported. Rescue service with HUF 52 billion in budget support, World Hunting Exhibition with over 70 billion. This is your Hungary, the favour of the whims of the minions, at all costs and the denial of obstinacy. The support of the Hungarian rescue service has not been supported, but it will still be possible. With regard to hospital debt settlement, we have also tabled a proposal, and we do not know your acceptance here, but we see that they are very, very active if it is to be addressed that they are indebted to Hungary with various Chinese and Russian megaloans in cases that have not been brought into Parliament. With respect to the Chinese university, 500 billion dollars of insane and insane megaloan loans are taken up, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, the Hungarian part of itself, the Hungarian part planned for this year and next year would allow the development of a full national rental program. These are elections, my fellow members of the Government, and you have chosen; not the Hungarian future, not the young Hungarians, but the investments based on the mega-loans in the Far East, with questionable returns. So this is the lied world of your national, which is poured down as syrup with an industrially functioning lie factory that tries to manipulate Hungarian public opinion, but loses it in a row, not exaggeration, hundreds of press trials, while Hungarian young people and Hungarian families were left out of their budget plans. More than 40 percent of Hungarian society and Hungarian workers have indicated that their income has decreased over the last year, as you lie in the statistics. Well, when the Secretary of State wants to go campaigning with the HUF 435,000 Hungarian average wage to Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg... Let's not continue with the sentence. People's income has fallen noticeably, but at the same time, it can be said that they haven't even thought about replacing the lost wages, not even a social group. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] without planning, living up to the Hungarian future. However, we will do everything we can to ensure that this country is united and that everyone is represented, and we will not allow it. [[Dr. Pál Völner: DK too! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2021-05-31-18	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, again.
u2021-05-31-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We were wondering if you'd even read the draft. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel laughs.]] 'Cause there were so many untruths. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] First, it is worth saying a few words about the circumstances under which we are discussing next year's budget. The third wave is already coming down, so we have every hope of reaching and even exceeding previous economic levels. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] Disproved of all previous expectations, two percent quarterly economic growth figures have been reported in recent days, which means that annual growth could be even higher and that next year's growth could be 5% or more, according to both the IMF and the European Commission. It is not surprising that we look at next year's budget differently, but you have been generously silent about the fact that this draft devotes a great deal of financial resources to the economic re-launch. If I want to highlight the magnitudes [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So what I can tell you is that we're talking about 7300 billion dollars, which is the national product, 13 percent of GDP, so you're saying it's nothing. To talk about not only macro numbers, but also concrete ones, this draft budget contains all the measures that the government has decided over the past months: further reduction of employers' tax, you have not talked about it; the restoration of the 13th-month pension; the Hungarian village programme, I am sorry that you do not support it; a reduction in housing tax, if it is already a home creation programme; housing renovation support, which you have not mentioned, I am sorry that you do not support it, and much more. Now, am I to recall that you said that young people weren't even thought of by the government when you planned the budget? I would like to tell you you probably know very well that from next year, young people under the age of 25 will be exempt from tax; so it is not about paying less taxes, but that they do not have to pay income tax, as opposed to those with whom you team up, who want two-key income tax. I'd try to deny that, too. If we look at health care, we will be able to spend 770 billion more than this year, with a difference of 1700 billion compared to 2010. We can spend 5 percent of GDP to support families, which is one of the highest rates across the European Union. We will spend 735 billion more on education compared to 2010. Honourable Congressman, It's nice and good that Jobbik makes proposals about the budget, but the thing is, no one thinks of you as being able to make independent decisions. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Because they're enlisted in the left with all the consequences. If you really cared about the Hungarians' livelihoods, you wouldn't have done that because you were involved with them. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Read the Republikon! It's on the Index. You're reading it.]] who here in this House, if they had to vote on such days, they had to put the toughest despicable package down the country's throat. There was a day, honourable Member, when a month's wages were abolished with a few voting hand gestures here in this House; they froze and taxed the family allowance, so they did not increase it, but froze it and taxed it and raised the VAT, all in one day's turn. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: In 1860, what was it, tell me!]] You've joined them. And I also understand that you have suggestions, but that doesn't matter, because they have proposals that overwrite it: they want higher corporate tax, your new Prime Minister candidate, who will eventually be [[Zoltán Balczó pointing to Péter Jakab: Here is our Prime Minister's candidate!]] He wants a 19-percent corporate tax rate; family subsidies are being cut off from work, and we've already talked about this, and they want higher income tax rates. We're now seeing your posters with the candidates on the left. Now, joint participation also means that these plans are adopted, approved and supported. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Thank you! It's a good thing you're being pro-government.]] [[14.10]] So when your party president supports the momentary candidates, it also means that they support Momentum's two-key tax increase proposal [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You got it!]] which, by the way, if I take into account their last proposal, would mean a tax rate of almost 25 per cent for average wages in Budapest. This would not mean a wage increase, but less wages, honourable Member. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Do you really believe that people believe that?]] Honourable Congressman, I understand that you're tense, and I also understand that you don't want anyone to talk about your position two or three years ago, because, for example, you put it in a very strong way about all of this, you said that you wouldn't be on the left because there's a nuclear bomb called Ferenc Gyurcsány. Now, that's why you don't want to talk about the past. Because you've not only switched sides, you've moved to the left, you've practically grabbed this explosive charge. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And if we could talk to the old Dániel Z. Carpathian, we would tell him that if it was up to us, no one would be able to press the red button on this nuclear bomb. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-20	Next up is KDNP's group leader, István Simicskó. I give you the floor.
u2021-05-31-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Every tragedy, every crisis, every crisis, every crisis, we all have to learn to restart, start a process again, even if we have suffered significant losses, to act, to build, to create, to make things right, and to shape the future for our children and grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen, Although it has been said here from Jobbik's speaker that he does not like historical examples, let me give you a historical example, because after Trianon, which was one of the nation's greatest tragedies, for nearly ten years Kunó Klebelsberg performed the religious and public education tasks as minister until 1931, and he himself formulated the vision of post-Train Hungarianism and gave us all a way of saying that there are three kinds of patriotism, one as speaker, the other as bitter, and the third as creator. I believe that in all situations, but especially after crises and difficulties, we must always fight to see the future, and to do it, to create, to build, and if we do so in the midst of a pandemic, we will do the right thing. To save lives, to obtain protective equipment, to obtain respirators, to obtain masks and vaccines, so that the Hungarian people can obtain protective vaccinations; based on a vaccination plan, the Hungarian government has done this properly and effectively. As a result, many lives have been saved and more than five million of our fellow citizens have been vaccinated. Now we have come to gradually, thoughtfully, carefully, but to restart the country; that is the right thing to do. This is the message that we can bring with us from history, that Hungarians have always had to be able to stand up, to start, to survive all the difficulties, all the tragedies. If we do so, we will be able to get our normal lives back and indeed restart the country's economy. The last year has taken a great deal of effort from everyone, so thank you to everyone involved in the defense. To plan for the future, that is what I said at the beginning, how important this is, and indeed, when the budget debate took place here last week, the budget of next year is about that, so that we can restart the Hungarian economy in order to create financial resources for some sectors. It is not a small task or an easy task to draw up a budget in a normal period of peace, as there is a need for many sectors, especially during a crisis, in the midst of a pandemic. But the government was able to put together an excellent budget, a budget for re-launching the economy. And here there have been criticisms from the good Member before me. He may have taken up the 2010 or 2009 budget, and that's why he talked about neoliberal cruelty. We probably don't work on the same stuff. What I see is that, by 2022, the economic recovery plan contains HUF 7308 billion. That's a huge amount of money. The good news is that support for families has increased nearly three times in the next year's budget since 2010. There was never such a large amount of money for this purpose! Forints 2780 billion, this is GDP, 5 percent of gross domestic product. Support for families with children and children is further expanded. Forints 2884 billion will be spent on health care. This is HUF 1700 billion more than the last budget submitted by socialist governments in 2010. Education expenditures increase to HUF 2180 billion; this is HUF 735 billion more than in 2010. A budget, my honourable fellow Member, is also a kind of creed, a kind of revelation in the language of numbers, value-centredness, what is important to us, what is important to the given government. Yes, families, the economy, the future of young people, health care is important for the Fidesz-KDNP government. On the other hand, the budget of left-wing governments, in particular the crisis management budget, consisted of austerity, maiming, withdrawals, tax increases. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The Fidesz-KDNP administration has undertaken to restart life and the economy along a human-centred philosophy. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-22	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2021-05-31-23	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, It is very important that government policy and its cornerstones have not changed during the coronal virus epidemic: we build a work-based society, we support the preservation of jobs and the creation of new ones; we want to achieve Hungary's future economic positions by increasing performance, increasing investment, supporting innovation and territorially balanced growth; and, of course, we pay particular attention to strengthening families, respecting older people and supporting child rearing. These are the three cornerstones that have defined government policy and economic policy since 2010, and this has not been changed during a pandemic, a coronal virus epidemic and an economic crisis. Although the coronal virus epidemic has put the country and, of course, the government at risk, Hungary must be one of the winners of the post-explosion world economy era. In this spirit, we have prepared, as Mr Group Leader said, the budget for 2022. The purpose of the 2022 budget can be to put resources behind the economic re-launch action plan, which is the largest economic programme in Hungary's modern history, which is not only about re-launching the economy, but also about restarting life and the country. The implementation of the action plan will allow everyone who has been put in a difficult situation to recover, to redesign, to rebuild, to look back into the future, to overcome daily financial, existential, moral, health problems. This is the objective of the 2022 budget. As Mr. Group leader said, a total of HUF 7308 billion of GDP is available in the Economic Restart Action Plan. From this source, we will make investments, development, further job retention and creating new jobs. This is a combined economic action plan in which, on the one hand, there is crisis management and, on the other, the basis of the future. We have already achieved a very serious result in 2020 with this view, as the economic downturn was lower than the average of the European Union, the decline in household consumption was much more moderate than expected, and the level of employment was higher than in the EU as a whole. [[14.20]] In the context of the re-launch action plan, priority will be given to areas that support the development of the economy and the recovery from the crisis in the long term. The focus of the measures is once again on the sectors of employment, families with children, pensioners and the Hungarian economy. For example, the achievement of climate protection objectives and digitalisation will also have a significant role to play in relaunching the economy. What is this objective based on or based on? Three pillars. On the one hand, the exploitation of existing labour reserves. We support employment. We support new jobs for those who have lost their jobs. Entrepreneurs that had to close during the crisis will be able to restart, reopen and run a thriving business. We want to increase and increase production capacity investments where there is an appropriate market, where production can be increased, where these businesses will receive adequate support, and we will help introduce new technologies and green development. The 2022 budget is the budget for the re-launch. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-31-24	The speech before the last agenda will take place today. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai.
u2021-05-31-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Whoa, dude! Well, it's really down there. , said Ferenc Gyurcsány in a Facebook post last week. Well, I am very sorry that Ferenc Gyurcsány has left the Chamber, because what I would like to say now was intended for him, but I hope that someone will give him my best wishes. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] Because, you know, President Gyurcsány, what you and Klára Dobrev have done for the last 30 years is really down there. Of course, as I've been looking over your shoulder today, well, there's more down here. Let's look at some cases that I really think are down there, and you've been up to your neck. Let's start with the privatisation of Motim, in which your mother-in-law, Little Piroska, assisted with a discount loan of 700 million forints. Of course, having great family relationships like you was just hard to be born. Or what about the real estate on Szalay Street? Or there's the Sukoro land exchange business in which he hasn't clarified his role to this day, and this poor Miklós Tátrai took the fall for you. But we can talk to Welt 2000 Kft. its blessed activities, where EU funds have been distributed with your wife's leadership, and this transaction has been so successful that the European Commission has punished Hungary for HUF 18 billion. Or then there's the Fittelina scandal, linked to the renovation and rental of the Little Gyurcsány villa, which you and your wife Klára Dobrev still haven't clarified. Mr. President Gyurcsány! Speaking of stealing in your Facebook post, what do you think of Csaba Czeglédy stealing $6.3 billion? You know, I'm talking about the Czeglédy Csaba who ran and operated a criminal organization and forgot to pay the contributions and forgot to pay the student workers. You see, Mr President, this is about Csaba Czeglédy, whose wife's company, Altus Portfolio, lent nearly 300 million forints under suspicious circumstances, where it was even suggested that Csaba Czeglédy's company received money from European Union funds from Altus, the Human Operator. By the way, I'm talking about the Czeglédy Csaba, Mr. President, who's your house lawyer and knows all the secrets. Your wife, Klára Dobrev, who is the candidate for Prime Minister of the Democratic Coalition, has recently declared a threat that more police officers were injured than protesters during the protests in connection with the autumn speech. You see, Mr. President, this is really the bottom line. On 23 October 2006, 167 protestors were injured in a police terrorist suspected to have been ordered by your order: tear gas, water cannon, rubber bullets, cavalry assault and dispersal of demonstrators using a viper. They took place on 23 October 2006. Now, after that, your wife is threatening the pro-government politicians to be held accountable. But from what I know of you, it would be a reckoning. You know, Mr President, you'd much better tell me the truth about the questions and matters I've been talking about, but not as in the autumn speech, you know, when you said that we lied in the morning, at noon, at night. Now, that would be the real truth, not all the bullshit you told me in the fall. Mr. President, why don't you sweep your own house first, clean up there, and sweep out criminals like Czeglédy, and then you can deal with others? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-31-26	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-05-31-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the last week, many people have quoted Ferenc Gyurcsány's words from 15 years ago. But now allow me to quote in this Parliament the words of the victims of Ferenc Gyurcsány, those who were struck down by police terrorism on the streets of Budapest only because they remembered the revolution of 56 or because they protested against the fact that the Prime Minister of Hungary admitted to his fellow political groups that he lied to Hungarian people and did nothing for the country for four years. I quote these people's own accounts. They've started hitting us on my head, and it's broken. I crashed, and then they hit me until I was all over it. Then I got picked up by my hair. In 2006 he led Hungary by Ferenc Gyurcsány in Hungary. The second quote is, "They kneeled the girls for two or three hours, put one of them in the trunk of the police car, and carried them to the police station. At the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who defended the rule of law in Brussels. Also further quote:, We were told that from now on you do not have a name, only a number written on my palm, for example, but there was one whose number was written on his face. We remember the 20th. In the 18th century, similar scenes were made in the 21st century. Do we owe it to Ferenc Gyurcsány in the century? Ladies and Gentlemen, People's eyes were shot out, peacefully commemorating people were sword-sworded, tear gased by those who participated in legitimate events, as we know afterwards, by order of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who said that this measure was legal and proportionate. Klára Dobrev, one of the left-wing prime minister's candidates, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, stands up to this day, even demanding, together with Ágnes Vadai, and loudly, that apologies should be made from the police, not from the people who were dragged to the ground, who were dragged by their hair, who were told that they did not have a name, only a number, and wrote on their faces, but from the perpetrators who went with vipers, went with tear gas, and brutally beaten people on the streets to intimidate everyone else. That's the way we know it from before. And this Ferenc Gyurcsány says it's very low. You're telling that to the people who were knocked down by his officers, who lost their balance from the water cannon and were lying on the streets of Budapest? Or the ones who couldn't breathe properly from tear gas? Is Ferenc Gyurcsány telling them that this is very low? Is he going up 15 years later? He didn't apologize to one man. This has not been the case since the change of regime, which took place 15 years ago, and all of this happened at the order of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and those who participated in this, with the Budapest Police Commissioner in charge, have been awarded. The leftists and the liberals applauded these people together, and together they were decorated by these people. And what does Christmas Gregory say about all this these days? That we should go over the last 30 years. And how does it go over the last 30 years? That he would take Ference Gyurcsány with him, that he would determine the future of Hungary by 1 percent and Gyurcsány by 99 percent. Is that the overshoot of the last 30 years? And here is James Peter, who could have decided to define himself against it. [[Peter James: He chose to relieve you, to replace the government!]] Just like your party's on its way out. And what does he do? She receives a Purrollo kitty, by commenting on Ferenc Gyurcsány [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's not offensive, is it? Shame!]] Orbán will not allow Viktor Orbán to become Prime Minister in Hungary, but will do everything in his power to help Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: 16 million HUF fine! Shame! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Where were you in 2006?]] Because Gyurcsány has obviously been on this track since the '80s. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Where were you in 2006?]] But the Jobbik could have made a different choice, but he didn't decide otherwise. He decided to bring back the Gyurcsány era, bring back that Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] who could have been Prime Minister of Hungary even without the change of regime. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[14.30]] But let me quote Ferenc Gyurcsány. We have so much talent, children, we can't do any better than this, he said after he doubled unemployment after taking a month's wages and a month's pension after he put the Hungarian people into foreign exchange loans after he created Hungary of circulations, after he closed schools and closed hospitals, after he introduced a tuition fee, after he introduced a visitation fee, after he introduced a hospital daily allowance. Ferenc Gyurcsány also said that we can agree with part of this sentence, not what he says to our country, what he says to himself, yes:.When I said that it was a failure, then I talk about Hungary, I talk about the left, and I tell you very frankly about myself. We agree with the latter, Ferenc Gyurcsány was only a failure for Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-31-28	Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Allow me, on behalf of all of us, to welcome Mr Wolfgang Sobotka, President of the Austrian National Council, Ambassador, and all the members of his delegation. Mr President, allow me to wish you successful negotiations and a pleasant stay in Budapest during your visit. Dear House, For the rest of the day, I would first ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-05-31-29	Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; László Horváth, Fidesz; Zoltán Varga, DK; Anett Bősz, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik and Ádám Steinmetz Jobbik. Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Anett Bősz, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, Jobbik; Hajnalka Juhász, János KDNP and Halász, Fidesz. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; László Varju, DK; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; András Aradszki, Gergely KDNP and Kálló, Jobbik.
u2021-05-31-30	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Now, at 2:34 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2021-05-31-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What has become of the Ministry of Finance? With this title, I submitted this interpellation precisely because we can see what has happened here in the financial wallet in recent years. During the discussion of the 2022 budget, the unwarranted budget has been submitted, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has already spoken in his speech before the agenda. But the fact that in recent years the national public wealth, which should have been taken care of, or some of the tax laws, has already been transferred to other wallets, also shows the government's intention that the Ministry of Finance's dignity and professionalism were simply put in the background. This has happened, on the one hand, to a minister without a separate wallet, to protect national property, which apparently is not well done. After all, not only at Lake Balaton, but in the rest of the country, there are real estate assets that have simply been squandered. You should have said no to this, because if it was already a key task of protecting national wealth in the foundation of the budget, then you should have stopped. The other is that we have come to the point that a tax law is not being tabled by the Ministry of Finance, but by the Minister without a wallet for families, I am thinking of the freedom of young people under the age of 25. This also shows what the Ministry of Finance has become, since no tax legislation is where it should be, and it is not presented by the minister to whom it is important. But we could talk about the fact that, in recent years, the government debt or budget deficit has fallen to the lowest historic level particularly at the end of the year last year. And you have no idea how to stop them, but also this year, in 2021, but clearly on the basis of the figures, in 2022 they are preparing to release and subject Hungary's budget to the campaign. I think that the Minister should have done at least that, overwriting party policy objectives, he is actually presenting a sound, professional budget to the House. They didn't do that. Of course, in the next period, we will do our best to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Finance should be a professional wallet, not scattered around, such as now the World Hunting Exhibition from the ITM has increased by another six billion forints. Why doesn't the Ministry of Finance say no to this when Hungarian people are in a state of despair, and Hungarian families, Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian economic operators are constantly pushing the problems ahead of them? Why spend six billion, another six billion, on the World Hunting Exhibition? So this is the question: what has become of the Ministry of Finance, why are they not saying no to party politics? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-32	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the future, I suggest you read your submitted interpellation, because it has a very different wording. Among other things, you commend the Minister of Finance for trying to do a lot of things. I told him that at the meeting today, he said to thank you for your compliments. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] And he also said that a lady would be very pleased to praise you for your work. [[Defiance.]] But I assure you, he is not alone, who praised the work of the Minister of Finance, Mihály Varga, because he won the title of Minister of Finance of the Year in the Eastern Central European region a few years ago. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] This is the case, and I think that neither you nor the international opinion of the Minister of Finance are alone, because not only the Minister of Finance's work has been positively judged in recent years, but also the country as a whole, because the credit rating agencies have strengthened Hungary's investment incentive position and it has been resounded this year. I think that the ministry's performance is faithfully demonstrated, for example, by the results achieved during the crisis; for example, the fact that the country was not arguing about what money is or what money is not available for, but about everything. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] What is needed on this can be laughed at by the better Members, everything that is needed for protection, health protection, everything that the government, the Ministry of Finance, has been able to provide, because the most important thing is to protect people's health. But the Ministry is able to produce great results in other areas. For example, in the first quarter of 2021, economic growth was expected to decline from our country, while at the same time one of the best performances in the European Union was demonstrated with a 1.9 percent increase. But both the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund say that the outlook for next year is very positive, that both organisations predict the country's economic performance above 5 per cent. I think that the Ministry of Finance's thinking, the Ministry of Finance's support policy, is certainly involved in this great result. You gave a specific example that the tax legislation was submitted by another ministry. This is a decision within a government, the essence of which is that it is a family in the tax legislation to be the author of the Ministry of Family Affairs. [[14.40]] Of course, the professional work in the background was also carried out by the Ministry of Finance. Or the Ministry of Finance is also behind the performance that tax revenues have increased significantly in the country since 2010 and we have also achieved significant results in reducing the black economy, since other countries are coming to Hungary to study economic whiteening measures. In the debt ratio, which you have also criticised, the country has also achieved significant results, and thus the Ministry of Finance in the last ten years, as debt has decreased from over 80 per cent to 65.5 per cent in the country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and in particular the ratio became more favourable to domestic investors. I think that criticism of the Minister of Finance's performance is wrong. [[Erik Bánki: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-34	I would like to give the floor once again to Congresswoman in return.
u2021-05-31-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We've heard how fantastic the Minister of Finance's performance is. We have already listened to this, by the way, when you said your expo when you presented the 2022 budget, but in order to achieve everything, everything you achieved in crisis management, it shows that you had the money to build stadiums, you had the money to invest in the World Hunting Exhibition now at 75 billion, and there were investments that we also said no to. You have said yes to these investments, and the Hungarian families will suffer the damage that the Ministry of Finance has not managed these funds properly. You can joke about it, you can do whatever you want about it, but simply the facts are stubborn numbers. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The facts are stubborn numbers?]] I cannot accept that answer from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-36	I would like to inform this House that, in accordance with the customs of the last few weeks, the decision will also be taken on this day of the sitting, in accordance with our adopted agenda, for all the unaccepted interpellations. Mr Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology. I give you the floor.
u2021-05-31-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of a government decision, a project to improve the maritime performance of the Danube is in progress, which would ensure a smooth sailing of deep-dive vessels with a capacity of 1300-1600 tonnes at least 300 days a year. From the point of view of CO2 emissions and costs, river shipping may appear to be an attractive alternative to road freight transport at first sight, but after a more thorough analysis, it becomes apparent that the fulfilment of the intended shipability requirements constitutes a drastic intervention, which could pose a risk not only to river and coastal life, but also to the healthy supply of drinking water to millions of Hungarians. As a result of the massive dredging of the Danube basin and the construction of several artifacts, the ships marked are able to ensure this navigation for most of the year. The sediment deposited in the vicinity of the design works also poses a significant risk to the water base. And artificially elevated water levels and changing flow conditions pose a significant threat to the wildlife of protected areas along the Danube, which could only be protected by enormous efforts over the last decades. All of this by designing railway developments in the next few years at the order of HUF 1000 billion, including on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line as an alternative to the Danube transport route. The parallel development of rail freight transport to this extent also seriously undermines the economic and climate protection meaning of the project to improve the maritime performance of the Danube. I ask Minister, since the Danube is a symbol of Hungary and is literally feeding our nation with the water of the Danube, I ask you to consider that the profits of construction and transport companies or the right of Hungarians to a healthy spawning water and a healthy environment are the most important interests. Decide to preserve the Danube as a diesel smoke, crowded road or a living river for our children and grandchildren. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-31-38	Mr János Schanda, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-05-31-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Danube River has always played a key role in the history of our country, and the Danube is not only a symbol, as you said, but also one of our brightest national and natural treasures. If we look back over the last centuries, our citizens have always tried to take advantage of the function of connecting the Danube countries, making them navigable has always been of great importance. Honourable Member, you know perfectly well that the Hungarian Government has already made many times certain of the protection of the Danube and our environment, our natural heritage. For whom the Danube's wildlife didn't matter, they were exactly your political and spiritual ancestors, the Communists. Let's just look back at the plans for the aqueduct in Bős-Nagymaros. Honourable Congressman, Our position on this issue is clear and clear. If you read the Fundamental Law, which was not otherwise supported by the left, you will find in it, I quote:. Natural resources, in particular land, forests and water resources, biodiversity, in particular indigenous plant and animal species, as well as cultural values, are a common heritage of the nation, whose protection, maintenance and preservation for future generations is the duty of the state and everyone. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Honourable Congressman, Let us also remember that the Danube is the seventh corridor of the trans-European transport network, which offers an opportunity to build important transport links between the European Union and its neighbours. You too know that on the TEN-T line we must ensure the transport of two-and-a-half-metre-dive vessels. Hungary decided already in 2015 to prepare for the development of the inland waterway, focusing on the sustainable development and shipability of the Danube in Hungary, paying particular attention, of course, to environmental and nature protection aspects, the safety of flood and ice drainage. Developments and planned interventions are in line with both EU and domestic expectations. The plans contain small-scale local interventions, which prevent further deepening of the surface, minimise dredges and do not affect water base protection areas. Honourable Member, we pay particular attention to the protection of our waters, including the Danube, because they are our national treasures, which we need to preserve and protect for future generations. And of course, I see your intention to paint the red MSZP green, but with hysteria, your attempt is completely untrue. Please accept my reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-40	Once again, Mr. Congressman has the floor.
u2021-05-31-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary. The Bolshevism you quoted is not in these benches, and I think your answer is a good proof of that, because it wasn't the answer to the question. It is clear that what he said in response follows from the fact that the profits of construction and transport companies are important to you, and indeed not the protection of wildlife, and certainly not the guarantee of a long-term right to healthy drinking water. Since I did not receive a meaningful answer, which I did, it should be rather restless, not as a comfort, so I obviously do not accept your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-31-42	Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, who submitted his interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office. On behalf of Prime Minister Prime Minister, the Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance with responsibility and competence will respond to the interpellation. Congressman's got the floor.
u2021-05-31-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We know very well, it has been a bad time ever since, a few days, a week ago, Fidesz, a Fidesz representative, submitted a legislative amendment proposal to the Parliament that would oblige the municipalities to sell their apartments for a fraction of the market price. This caused such indignation at the time that the mayor of Debrecen, who was otherwise speechless, technocratic, but terribly disciplined, protested against the proposal. [[14.50]] Allow me to quote it literally:. The proposal for an amendment to the Housing Act, now known, is, in my view, unacceptable, and I do not agree with it myself. Perhaps this proposal was amended because of the loud outrage and protest of the Fidesz mayors, and so it would only apply to apartments in the castle under historic protection. But that doesn't change anything. It's not only the original plan, the thousands of billions, but the current tens of hundreds of billions of thefts are thefts. We know very well that your plan will eliminate the local government, cancel the property, completely empty it. However, it is also clear that the proposal is even contrary to your Fundamental Law, since the Fundamental Law states that the municipality exercises the rights of the owner in respect of municipal property. But not just with this, but still with the Ptk. the right to possession, use, benefit and provision should also be understood as ownership rights. This proposal, in principle, limits the right to dispose by establishing the right to buy the tenant. It is no coincidence that, among other things, the DK mayors protested against this. You know perfectly well that if this proposal becomes a law, no one will be able to provide housing for the most deprived, and while the state is not building rentals, the municipalities will be unable to provide housing for families with a difficult fate that respects human dignity as a result of this proposal. You know that, because that's why it's written for the fidesz housing mafia and speculators. For those who will ruthlessly take advantage of people who want to, but who will not be able to buy their rental apartments for financial reasons. And let's read this, it's very good that the son-in-law of the nation is preparing to buy these apartments. I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. If you introduce this outrage, you can be sure that the first Dobrev government will restore its original status. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: In Bulgaria?]] This bill will be lifted and the consciously damaging ones will be brought to justice. The question is, however, when will you come to your senses, and with a loud apology, when will you withdraw your fellow Member Böröcz's spooky proposal? Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Applause!]]
u2021-05-31-44	András Tállai has the floor again.
u2021-05-31-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Before the general debate of Parliament, on 19 May, he submitted an interpellation on a bill that has since been debated in general, you have been involved in this, and you have heard the position of the rapporteur, László Böröcz, that there will be substantial amendments to the bill, and what your interpretation was then formulated, on 19 May, was essentially out of reason. It is true that this amendment is not yet before the Parliament, but it will obviously come here after the committee hearing, on which Parliament can once again give an opinion in the final debate, including you. But he did say the most important message of which is that if you go to government, or if Klara Dobrev is the Prime Minister, then, if I understand correctly, the decision-makers will be brought to justice. It doesn't make any sense. Threatening people who are legislators in public is incomprehensible. You can imagine what will happen to the country if such a policy or politician is put at the top of the country. Honourable Congressman, Since I still have time, allow me to talk more about what the government's housing policy is. The whole point of the government's housing policy is to get everyone who can get their own apartments to get their own apartments. The government helps all families, especially families who raise children, who want to raise their children in their own homes. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) This is why on 1 July 2015 the new home creation programme was launched. The success of this is indicated by the numbers. More than 175,000 families have already used it, and the government has paid HUF 557 billion for these home creation programs and purposes. The participation of families with three children is particularly high, with 83 percent of these beneficiary families having three children. The family protection programme was launched on 1 July 2019 and the government intends to promote the removal of obstacles to the self-starting, existentialisation of young Hungarians, family-creation and child-bearing plans. Thus, the baby shower loan, a significant part of which is spent on buying homes or renovating homes, has been concluded with 132 thousand loans. The state spending on this has exceeded HUF 21 billion in the last year. Moving on, people living in small towns now have the opportunity to do so-called village CSOK. By the end of April 2021, more than HUF 110 billion of aid applications were accepted and HUF 11.5 billion of village tax refunds were requested. Honourable Congressman, The government is working to ensure that Hungarian families have their own apartments and live their lives in them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-46	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. I'll ask Congressman Zoltán Varga to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-05-31-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For God's sake, stop panicking. What will happen in a year, you know very well, and you know very well what you are doing and what you are doing at the moment. They don't build social housing. They're cutting out people who won't have the opportunity to buy their own home because the son-in-law of the nation is already preparing for it. And I would like to quote this:, In the next period, I expect significant movements in such a housing market, a lot of real estate can be placed on the market, which will be a good opportunity for investors. It's no secret we're thinking about boarding, buying downtown apartments through a professional housing fund. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary. You're deceiving the little people, you're destroying them now, and you're not gonna have a chance to move anywhere. I believe you're providing homes for families now, but these apartments are castles, and we know very well what families we're talking about. The Orbán family, the Matolcsy family, and we can continue. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I can count it on one hand. I can't accept your answer.
u2021-05-31-48	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, as Mr President did not accept the answer, the decision will take place today at our meeting. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. When will the wages of law enforcement workers be increased? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2021-05-31-49	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The fact that the state is one of the worst employers in Hungary is obvious to everyone. The wages of public sector workers are constantly being cut off from the wages of the competitive sector, which means that a large proportion of public sector workers are earning the same amount as the guaranteed minimum wage. It is no different for social workers, cultural workers or law enforcement workers. A recent survey said that law enforcement workers included prison execution, police officers, firefighters, and more than 70 percent considered leaving the field, and only 2.8 percent said in this survey that they were satisfied with their salary. Even though the police career model was introduced, it's just that everyone who talks to law enforcement workers or cops knows they don't get off their paycheck this month. That's because the money you pay them is extremely low. Even though you can tell me the extras, the different decisions, I know that Mr. Secretary of State knows in his soul that I'm right, and the police's salary is extremely low. [[15.00]] The fact is that a friend of mine working in prison in Szombathely recently told me that several people are not only thinking about leaving the field, they have a side job, many people, and that over 200 thousand forints net, it is not very possible to earn in a prison. These people have worked extremely hard. When there was now a coronal virus epidemic, you came up with the idea that you could work 12-hour shifts at the same time, so the rest periods were lifted. This was, of course, an appropriate step in an epidemic and an emergency, but it shows that without these people's work, the Hungarian state would not exist. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] My question is, when are they gonna raise the police's salary?
u2021-05-31-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ungár. I would like to ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State for Home Affairs, to answer the question.
u2021-05-31-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I do not agree with your point of view, and I would like to say at the very beginning, because your communication is like this spring, so volatile. They're threatening us with mass decommissioning of police officers, and they're saying this is a police state. What you referred to and published in the press, the assessment of the employees' side of the Home Affairs Stakeholder Council cannot be considered credible or representative, nor can any established conclusions be drawn from it; the survey could be completed on the Internet without confirmation of employment status and involvement. That is the truth about this survey, honourable Member. Let's look at the facts. In the first four months of 2021, 253 professionals removed the uniform, including retirement and death. At the same time, there was 85 percent more applicants, 189 people started the ten-month training on 19 April 2021. As far as mass departure is concerned, you are quite right, because there was indeed a mass departure, but between 2002-2010, when your allies, the Socialists, led this country and the Ministry of the Interior, during the socialists' governance and the Gyurcsány government, among other things. I would also like to say some numbers: at the time of the 2010 government change, 42,506 early pensioners, you know, who retired at the age of 35-38-40, of which 24,227 were professional early pensioners with home affairs. Thus, a significant part of these numbers, the 42 506 persons and the 24 227 persons, were retired early during the period of the socialist government and the Gyurcsány government. Honourable Congressman, You are constantly distorting reality. In 2015, we actually launched a career programme, which had several elements, including an average wage development of 50 percent. By the way, for the record, you've deviated from your written interpellation, where you say that we didn't realize... [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] But I can answer that without you following the house rules you didn't do, but it's an apology to you. [[Peter James: Ten million!]] So, we implemented this wage development program, which ended on January 1, 2019. From 2016 we introduced the performance application, this government provides 8 billion forints in 2016 and 17 forints a year, and is currently 12 billion forints forints. This is based on benchmarking for professionals. We have also introduced a system for the care of law enforcement health damage from 1 January 17th. That means the Hst. The staff covered by this Regulation are the only categories of employees in which regular salaries are available five years before the retirement age, i.e. five years before the retirement age, without the performance of their duties. There is only one condition for benefit beyond age: 30 years of actual professional service. At the end of December 2019, each law enforcement professional received a lump sum reward of HUF 500 000 gross, resulting in a 10 per cent salary increase compared to the beginning of the year and from 1 January 2020 a professional staff of law enforcement agencies managed by the Ministry of Interior [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It receives a 10% higher income, which is an additional income allowance, each month under subjective rights. Honourable Congressman, I have one request: if you are so and truly interested in law enforcement professional staff [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to increase the quality of life, then to vote for the 2022 budget. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-31-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Péter Ungár to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2021-05-31-53	I don't accept the answer. We heard a very interesting medical history and talked about retirement, which was not included in the written text either. I would like to say that, speaking of house rules, I would have had three minutes, but instead it gave me two minutes, and that is why I could not read the written text exactly like that, so Mr Secretary of State, who had also been called earlier, heard this precisely. But anyway, the point here is that the police's wages are extremely low, the wages of people working in prison are extremely low. What you said was a very good production report from 1977, but this reality, which is visible every month when you receive the invoice, will not make this reality untrue. The fact is that you know exactly how much these people are earning, and you can say that this survey is not good, but what is certain is that if you talk to a living Hungarian policeman, you will say that the salaries are humiliating.
u2021-05-31-54	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár did not accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. Memelelie from July 1 to the Government's minimum wage and plans to raise pensions to a greater extent than previously announced in order to follow the steeply increasing cost of living for pensioners and workers? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is responsible for tasks and competences according to the subject, commissioned Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2021-05-31-55	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As we know, inflation reached its eight-year peak in April: it reached 5.1 percent. To give some examples of this: the price of food oil increased by about 23 percent, rice by about 8 percent, flour by about 7 percent, pasta by about 7 percent, bread by less, but also by about 5 percent. How much has the pension increased this year? Three percent. True, the government has announced that it will add 0.6 per cent from June! This means that the pensioners will receive an average increase of HUF 890. It's pretty amazing. It's an incredibly low and humiliating amount. But let us also take a look at how much the minimum wage has increased this year. Four percent. Here, however, there is a faint ray of hope, and the government has revealed to employers, in agreement with employees' representatives, that if the social contribution tax rate is reduced by 2 percentage points in the middle of the year, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage are increased by an additional 1 percentage point. This is very important. Since then, however, the government has tabled another bill of a different nature: although the employer's burden is reduced by 2 percent, but in other compositions, not in the way that it was literally promised. The government is silent, however, that this means that it wants to avoid and save an additional 1 percentage point increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, or to do so as promised. It is very important to have an answer to this question, since this is not only a problem for low-income people, but also for a number of unemployed people whose unemployment benefits are also adapted to these amounts. [[15.10]] Dear Secretary of State, So I would like to ask you that, for the rest of the year, the government will raise the minimum wage and the minimum wage during the year. Two: in the light of recent inflation figures, do you intend to raise your pension higher than already announced? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-31-56	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Burány. Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, will answer your question on interpellation.
u2021-05-31-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You mentioned a number of important issues in your speech. Allow me to respond to your speech in the order you set out. You talked about pensions, so let's see the facts. In the left-wing government, he took away the 13th month pension from 2.4 million pensioners and raised the retirement age. Your boss, the showmaster, Ferenc Gyurcsány, is not only the presenter of the bill on the abolition of the 13th month pension, but he himself voted for it, along with the entire MSZP and SZDSZ fraction, just as you voted for it. You forgot to mention this, honourable Member, that you personally voted in Parliament to take away the 13th month pension from 2.4 million Hungarian pensioners. In addition, pensions decreased by more than 4 percentage points between 2006 and 2010. On the other hand, the pension policy of the national-citizen government is about pensioners being beneficiaries of the development of domestic economic processes, because they have worked for the country, for the country, for the nation, and raised their children for decades. For this reason, in contrast to your policy, in 2010, the government promised to protect the real value of pensions year after year, and as a result of the pension increase that has been implemented since 2011 and planned for 2022, pensions will increase by 48.1 percent and, taking into account the additional increase of June 2021, the increase is already 48.9 percent. And what you have taken, honourable Member, we will give back to the pensioners, we will rebuild the 13th month pension. You told me about the minimum wage. Let's see the facts here. The left raised the minimum wage by only HUF 23 500 between 2002 and 2010. On the other hand, the National-Citizen Government has already raised the minimum wage from HUF 73 500 to HUF 167 400 by 2021, which is a 127 percent increase, so since 2010, we have increased it more than double. During these ten years, real earnings have also increased steadily at national level, with 61 percent of real earnings without benefits, honourable Member, 61 percent and 69 percent on average, taking into account family preferences. And you talked about family support. Since 2010, we have increased the support of families by 2.5 times compared to what you have done in the government when you took a month's wages; they have reduced the child to two years; they have abolished the home creation programme and the family tax reduction; they want to introduce property taxes and tuition fees. That was your family policy, honourable Member. In addition, VAT has been raised, all kinds of extra taxes have been introduced, and there has also been a drastic increase in fees. They are preparing to do this now: they are thinking about tax increases, wage cuts, making housing more difficult. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The main test of which is already visible in left-wing municipalities, including in the capital. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) Honourable Congressman, In implementing this disastrous policy, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You personally had a huge responsibility as Minister of Labour and then as Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-31-58	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. I will ask Congressman Sándor Burány to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2021-05-31-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've really tried to make it easier for the Secretary of State. I asked you two very simple questions. One: Will the government keep its promise and increase the minimum wage by another 1 percentage point? Two: in view of the runaway inflation, are you willing to adjust the rate of pension increase accordingly? I could not simplify my question enough; it was still beyond the capacity of the Secretary of State. Mr. Secretary, there's only one thing you've been good at here, is bullshit. Of course, we are not curious about that, but I cannot accept its meaningless answer. Thank you.
u2021-05-31-60	Thank you very much. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today at our meeting. Dear Parliament, Zsófia Koncz, Member of the Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:, How is the implementation of the Climate and Nature Action Plan progressing? It's an address. Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz has the floor.
u2021-05-31-61	Dear Deputy Minister, The protection of our living environment and the created world is in the interest and responsibility of all of us. We all want clean water, good air and a more bearable climate. How our common future is going to be determined by today's decisions. Climate change is a natural process, but its speed is significantly influenced by the lifestyle of human communities. The process has been significantly accelerated in recent years and needs to be adapted. In the case of climate protection, therefore, we need real action, not empty words. Hungary has already demonstrated its commitment over the past decades, as our country is doing better in terms of climate-neutral energy production than most countries in the European Union. The national strategy for energy and climate protection adopted by the government provides the basis for Hungary's long-term, comprehensive, clean development strategy. However, it is only possible that the government also represents the interests of the Hungarian people. Each country should play its part in joint efforts taking into account the extent of the damage it causes. The price of climate change should not be paid by the Hungarian people, but by the largest polluting companies and countries, the largest climate disrupters! I consider the protection of the natural environment of our created world to be our primary obligation to preserve our built heritage. The climate and nature conservation action plan includes, among other things, the elimination of illegal landfills and the cleaning of rivers, and one of the most important programmes is wooding, which aims to significantly increase the proportion of forested areas in the country. After all, I would like to draw attention to the need to support all areas that protect our environment: the use of environmentally friendly energy, the development of public transport and the conservation of our natural resources. On behalf of me and the Fidesz-KDNP Group, I can say that we are ready to give the government all the support we can for further action on climate protection. Dear Deputy Minister, In this regard, I am asking you about the pace of the implementation of the climate and nature conservation action plan. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-31-62	Thank you, Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz. The interpellation question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-05-31-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, we are convinced that action can and must be taken against climate change, not with words. And that's why the government is acting and actually acting, while others are just talking about climate protection and showing zero action. The left should understand now, too, that by Facebook postings, declaring a climate crisis, hornet garages and chanting empty horse-zunges, the created world and our environmental values cannot be protected. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The climate and nature conservation action plan was adopted by the government in January 2020 and its aim is to do everything in our power to enable our children and grandchildren to inherit the environmental values of our country better than we have received. The measures will help to make Hungary a climate neutral country by 2050. The Action Plan includes measures on waste reduction, the elimination of illegal waste in the country, as well as the tasks outlined and undertaken in the areas of sustainability, wider use of renewable energy and climate protection, including the significant expansion of the forest areas mentioned by you. [[15.20]] I'm happy to report this to you, and we're doing everything we can, despite the outbreak of the coronal virus. In this context, I am also happy to report that we have planted more than 1 million 100,000 trees in the framework of the tree planting programme, and we continue to undertake to plant at least ten trees after each newborn. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and One of the important objectives of the Action Plan is to eliminate illegal landfills and clean up the affected areas. We started this process in the summer of 2020, and so far more than 25,000 tons of illegal waste have been reported by our colleagues throughout the country. The Parliament has recently dealt with this issue, the most important of which was the elimination of illegal waste and the reduction of littering, the creation of stricter legislation. It is sad that this bill, which concerns all of us, was supported only by the sound national civil side, and the left, including those who call themselves green, could not even press a button to make Hungary a cleaner country. We're gonna take out the loopholes. If they don't help us, they won't help us, we'll still do it. We do not allow people or companies to continue to litter and even pollute domestic lands and waters at the expense of the normal majority, the country and especially our children. And those who will continue to refuse to comply with the rules, the rules of living together, and those who will be punished harshly. It is also a sad situation, honourable Member, that while we are doing something about the garbage, for example, Gergely Christmas will remove a quarter of the public dumpsters in Budapest, it is quite amazing. So it's very difficult to work against illegal littering. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-31-64	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. I will ask Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2021-05-31-65	Yes, I accept that, and thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your detailed reply. I must say that this is also a very, very important issue within my own constituency. Therefore, we are organising a number of actions on site, such as Hernád, on Bodrog, which are related to the cleaning of our rivers, wooding is also a very, very important issue, and I am very proud to say that the first small town re-use centre will be launched in Lucky. So with these thoughts, I would like to thank you once again for your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-31-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology: It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the interpellation will be answered at the request of Minister János Fónagy, Secretary of State, who is responsible for managing the national assets under the theme. You have the floor, Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2021-05-31-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, 150 thousand workers who are being humiliated by the luxurious government are Hungarian workers, postmen, railmen, bus users, workers of energy companies or even water companies who are getting up early and working hard this year to find out what their fate will be this year. They don't want to eat caviar on luxury yachts or snort up a strip of Coke, but they don't want to fly to Dubai to have cocktails on the banks of a pool, let's say; they just want to raise their wages by 6 percent, so they want to avoid real wage cuts. They want to be able to pay their bills, they want to be able to feed their children. Jobbik, as a party with Christian-social principles, stands firm to defend the interests of workers. We consider it important to set the example of the state in creating decent wages. Therefore, we strongly support the legitimate wage demands of employees' interest protection organisations by MNV Zrt. of companies supervised by the Commission. In fact, the holding, i.e. exploitation, of employees of public companies by their own government cannot be an option. Enabling earners in public services should be a priority over the state support and clogging of oligarchs, NER major parasites and multi-enterprises with foreign interests. The financial appreciation of employees of companies that are key to the functioning of the State will not be postponed! Although five months have already passed from 2021, some 150,000 employees are still waiting to see what will happen to that HUF 28 billion, because it will require such a large amount of money to settle this, so that they can avoid further slippage. Dear Secretary of State, Can you expect solidarity from the state that would be inoperative without their work? What can this one and a half hundred thousand men expect of the fidesz ladies and nobles? From the government whose 11-year two-thirds Regent led to the fact that against the net Hungarian minimum wage of 111,000 forints measured in the ever weaker forints, Slovak minimum wage earners bring home 70 thousand forints more in euro per month? Will it be so, and if so, how much wage increases can the workers in question expect? I look forward to Mr. Secretary of State's substantive response, along with this 150,000 people. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-05-31-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2021-05-31-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Listening to you, I am deeply convinced of the truth of the hundreds of years of saying that style is man. But you asked for specific answers. Allow me to answer this subject in a tone and a worthy content that is truly worthy of the livelihood of 150,000 families. I would like to point out, first of all, that during the past year and a half, and so during the epidemic, the government has basically focused on job security, people's livelihood, continuous employment and job security. You, thank God, I think you didn't really see any servants, and I wish with all my fellow Members and all the citizens of Hungary that they would never be able to know what that servant was. So, please, don't throw those words at me, 'cause it hits back at people who say that. At the same time, it is very difficult to have a political debate on professional issues where there is a need to talk about numbers, as I am aware that there is no number that cannot be said more than one. That is why I started by basically keeping jobs for the past year and a half. We have kept this: in Hungary, only one public company has not dismissed people because of the epidemic, there was no need to reduce the number of one large service company, even when you know this from your own profession, when the performance of some large service companies fell to 10-20 percent due to the epidemic. The number of people didn't feel that. People's jobs were safe. [[15.30]] At the same time, the wages, for which, I repeat, I do not say for a moment that no higher wages can be demanded, for a moment I do not say that there is no reason to pay higher wages, of the large state companies that you mentioned in the first place, they increased to 187 per cent between 2010-2020, 179 per cent in the water utility companies, 198 per cent in the MÁV group, i.e. almost 220 per cent in the Volán group and 171 per cent in the MVM group. I do not want to play with the numbers, this does not show the wage level, but the average wage was 311,000 forints compared to the salary of 167 thousand forints in 2010 at Magyar Posta, the average fee was 402,000 forints for the water companies compared to 224 thousand forints, 443,000 forints for the MÁV group instead of 223 thousand for the Volán group, 404 thousand forints instead of 186 thousand for the Volán group, and 722 thousand forints for the MVM group, except for Mavir 423 500 forints. Please, not arguing that every government's ambition is to raise incomes, to degrade these wages, to ignore them, I think [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that from the point of view of the people who work there, it is impossible. I would ask you to reconsider this position. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-31-70	Thank you very much, Secretary Major. I'll ask Mr. Balázs Ander to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-05-31-71	Secretary of State, I asked you that you can expect a 6 percent wage increase in 21 percent for employees in these companies. Let's see. Then there was 18 billion forints for his Mé-száros hotels, there was, and there was 54 billion forints for the renewal of Matolcsy's MNB, which constantly cheapens the forint, there is 75 billion forints for the World Hunting Exhibition, there is 500 billion for the Chinese University, and there is 1000 billion forints for the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway, which has never returned from Chinese credit. But then I read from your answer that this year there won't be 28 billion forints for this 150,000 man. Two philosophy conflicts here. One was represented by Viktor Orbán in front of Arab investors, who said how cheap the Hungarian workforce is compared to its quality and how flexible the labour code is. The other philosophy, on the other hand, is ours, yes, and it sounds like the thieves should pay and the Hungarians should finally live well. I don't accept the answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. [[Dr. János Fónagy intervenes.]] Since you have not accepted the Secretary of State's reply, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: -How much more does the government spend on health in 2022 than the governments on the left? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2021-05-31-73	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Deputy Minister, The budget submitted by the Government for 2022 is the budget for the re-launch of the country. The challenges caused by the coronal virus epidemic give Hungary a chance to become one of the winning countries of the new world economic era after the epidemic. The budget provides more than HUF 7300 billion in 2022 for priority programmes, development and investment aimed at relaunching the economy in the context of the economic recovery action plan. Of course, in the 2022 budget, we must not forget the health sector or those working in health care, as the work of doctors and nurses working on the front line of disease control must be recognised. As a result of historical health wage increases, medical salaries have increased on average by two and a half times over two years. We also appreciate the work of health professionals: thanks to the wage increase programme launched in 2018, the wages of nurses will increase by 72 percent between 2019-22. Dear Deputy Minister, Left-wing governments took over 600 billion forints from health care, charged 16,000 active beds and laid off 6,000 health workers. However, the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance considers human and human health as a priority. To this end, it is necessary to develop certain national institutes, center hospitals, as well as to strengthen the infectological facilities, to establish a special-needed epidemic hospitals and a pulmonary network, to renew blood supply, to develop county and urban infirmary establishments and to develop outpatient facilities. On the basis of the above, I ask the honourable Deputy Minister what government priorities are included in the 2022 budget for the health sector, how much more the government spends on health in 2022 than the governments on the left. I look forward to the honour of your reply, Mr. Deputy Minister. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-31-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-05-31-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, A number can be answered to you, honourable Member, that is the surplus of HUF 1700 billion, which the Fidesz-KDNP government spends more on the health of Hungarian people than those on the left side of the present horseshoe did. This is a 141 percent increase in the last decade. It is also important to say this number a few times, and I thank the Member for his interpellation, because the left says nothing but a reduction in health resources. This sentence is true, but not for our period, but for their period, and it is not for us to say it, but for the OECD, because the OECD said that the only government in which per capita health spending was reduced was precisely Hungary, with a reduction in total national product. There was no other country in the seven years preceding 2010, where healthcare expenditure would have decreased pro rata, only Hungary. They are the ones who now say that it is falling, while it is growing by HUF 1700 billion, by 141 percent, that means it is almost two and a half times more. Thus, according to the proposal for a budget law submitted, the amount of funding for health is unprecedented. It is important to increase the general medical framework in this regard. In 2010 we spent 79 billion forints on general medical care; next year we will spend 244 billion forints. This year, along with the increase in the wages of doctors, a surplus of HUF 72 billion also came to the general practitioners, so that not only the doctors' wages would grow in hospitals, but also those of the general practitioners. But dental care has an increase of 264 percent, from HUF 22.6 billion to HUF 82 billion. We're talking about the National Rescue Service today. After ten years on the left, he noticed during the coronal virus epidemic that there were paramedics. Well, it would have been nice if they had done that in the previous years, because they never voted for the extra resources for the rescue service. It has increased from HUF 26 billion to HUF 65 billion, with a surplus of HUF 38 billion, but no left-wing vote has been received in recent years. They always voted against it, but now they realize there's an ambulance service, and they say it needs to be increased. Well, we should have supported these proposals in recent years, with which we raised the rescue service budget by 145 percent between 2010 and 2022. It's important that the medical salary increase was associated with the completion of a 70-year-old terrible legacy, and this is the gratuity money system, which we were able to manage. Obviously, in the meantime, the surplus of the medical wage increase appears: this is expected to be HUF 394 billion in the following year. The wage increase is covered by next year's budget. That's how doctors pay up. A beginner doctor who made 255 thousand forints last year will earn 481,000 forints this year, and next year he will earn 619 thousand forints for his basic salary, so this is the gross basic salary, without tax, but the various on-call and other allowances, without additional wage elements, is 619 thousand forints. Anyone who has been on the field longer, has been working for 20 years, has earned HUF 50,000 last year, this year's income has risen above HUF 1 million, and will earn HUF 1 million, 342,000 next year. A doctor with more than 40 years of experience, who earned HUF 575 thousand last year, earns HUF 1 million 666,000 a month as a basic wage, and the other elements come along, and next year his salary will rise above HUF 2 million, and it will be HUF 2 million 142 thousand. This is also included in the health budget chapter and will continue to raise wages for nurses and workers. [[15.40]] We've taken a 72 percent wage increase in total. The next part of this will follow on 1 January 2022 with a 30 per cent increase in nursing wages, which will be covered by the budget. We hope that this will be supported from the left, although we have no illusions, because these proposals have never been supported in the previous ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-76	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. I will ask Congressman Imre Vejkey to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-05-31-77	Dear Deputy Minister, First of all, I thank you for your reply, which I accept. Thank you for bringing 769 billion forints more to health next year than this year. Thank you for more than doubling spending on health care in 11 years. Last but not least, I express my gratitude to doctors and nurses, because during the pandemic, everyone who was humanly cured was cured. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-78	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. Dear Parliament, The interpellation schedule has been completed. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain energy and public service laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/15999. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-05-31-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws on energy and public services T/15999. A bill with a paper number. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 5 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The reason for the adoption of the bill on the House's table is that, in view of the experience of the law enforcement authorities over the past period, the changes in the energy sector and the measures implemented, several amendments on different subjects have become necessary. The primary objective of the amendment to the Mining Act is to preserve the outstanding value of deep drilling for non-use mining purposes at the national economy level. The amendment of the law on electricity and gas supply partly serves to establish a legal basis for good public utility practices in the epidemic situation by increasing the possibilities for electronic administration. The aim of the regulation is to ensure the ownership, the necessary IT services and the acquisition of IT systems of the system operator operating under the online model of intensive sciences in a cost-effective manner, while respecting the separation rules, and to organise them within the vertically integrated group. Among the amendments to the public service legislation, the 2011 CCIX on water utility services is outstanding. Amendment to the Act, which is necessary in order to exempt property owned by religious communities with legal personality from the obligation to pay the water utility development contribution, given that natural persons serving in church buildings who are employed by the church use water utility services in the same way as residential users. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I believe that the legislative harmonisation and other amendments contained in the bill include forward-looking efforts in the energy and public services sectors, and that the proposal should therefore be supported. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Törő. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Attila Steiner: At the end.]] It doesn't indicate his intention. Thank you very much. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, LMP.
u2021-05-31-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have had a relatively long general debate on this bill. However, what happened last week at the Legislative Committee was a shocking development for me. An amending proposal of a weight and a type that I believe could not have been adopted was introduced and adopted by the Legislative Committee. It initiates a fundamental change in the Hungarian public utility sector which should have been at least openly agreed with the profession and should have been indicated in the general debate of the bill at the time of the referral. What am I talking about? In the Legislative Committee, there was a proposal to amend that the municipality could hand over to the State free of charge water utilities and water utility companies, obviously municipal owned water utilities and water utility companies, and thus also transfer the relevant revenues and, in practice, the supply responsibility. This is quite an amazing phenomenon. I have been dealing with the situation of the water utility sector here in Parliament for a very long time, but as a politician before that time. It is quite clear that the restrictions and withdrawals affecting the municipalities do not concern the municipalities, but the people who live there, because the municipalities are responsible for ensuring the most important public services, and if they do not have adequate resources, then these public services are obviously not able to be provided by the municipalities in an appropriate capacity. But in the same way, I have said this very, many times in criticism that with certain very serious system problems, your government simply couldn't, didn't want or refused to do anything. One of these serious system problems is the situation of the Hungarian water utility sector. We can say that the sector is in a very shocking situation, on the brink of collapse. Indeed, the legacy was not easy in 2010, but we can say that since then you have taken a series of measures that have seriously damaged the situation. I support this situation with a few specific figures: since 2011, the number of failures has doubled, with a network loss of about 30 percent, so 30 percent of the drinking water produced simply drains away because of the bad pipes. And the various estimates put the missing funds in between HUF 1500-3000 billion over a 15-year horizon, i.e. in the medium term. For years, we have been talking about the need to support this sector to a huge extent, and the Prime Minister has already acknowledged that it is a thousand billion-dollar scale. In recent years, compared to the fact that about 200 billion per year should have been budgeted to support water utility companies for maintenance and replacement work, you have calculated a budget of around 1.5 billion per year. For the first time in the summer of last year, I heard from the Prime Minister that he acknowledged this problem, that it is a huge problem and a huge challenge to provide the most important public service, healthy drinking water, and to provide sanitation and water base protection, and to do so, we need a billion-dollar resource. At the time, the Prime Minister promised that this would be possible from European Union funds; compared with this, we do not see that this will happen, we do not see that the European Union's recovery fund and other resources will come down by just two order of magnitude. If we look at next year's budget on the other side, we do not see these problems reflected there. The fact is that you practically drained the municipalities year after year, bled out the utility companies and did not grant the aid. Typically, state companies were given some sort of lifeline, but not local government companies. So it became terribly difficult for the municipalities to maintain, practically blackmailing them into a situation where they were forced to hand over municipal water utilities to the state. That's quite unacceptable. [[15.50]] We agree perfectly with that, and I have said this in a lot of debates that one of the most important things is that, if not the most important infrastructure, water utilities must always be community-owned, i.e. state-owned and municipal-owned. At the same time, we are convinced, and I can say this from experience, that for eight years I was a municipal representative, that it is extremely important that the municipalities and local communities are able to control the water utilities, because a local government-owned company can plan and do the necessary maintenance work in a responsible manner. So you can't take these waterworks away from local communities. Your minister and Deputy Minister Tamás Schanda have been sending answers for a very long time that some kind of government strategy will be prepared, and it has been changed for some time that the strategy has been completed, but no one has seen it. No one has seen this strategy to save the water utility sector. What is more, we can say that it is much worse that no one sees the resources, Mr. Secretary, where it can be operated, saved, perhaps again the most important public service. So we have 550 billion for Fudan University, 1000 billion for the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, you don't spend on water utilities. Now, apparently, their plan is to blackmail local governments into handing them over. This can also have very, very serious legal consequences, as those who were interested in municipal policy know precisely that a local mayor or member of the council swears to protect the community's assets. So you can't just hand over this huge fortune free of charge. It's a huge responsibility. Obviously, it is the responsibility of the municipalities to provide. It is the government's task to assess, assess in place this problem and to implement the resources needed to maintain the most important public service. It is impossible for them to be extorted in this way, and, knowing you as such, may even take a journey in the field of water utilities, which we can see in many areas, that there will also be some kind of outsourcing of private investors in the water utility sector. This is completely unacceptable and unacceptable in itself, Mr Secretary of State. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That this was brought in as a TAB modification. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-31-82	Thank you very much, Mr. László Keresztes. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik.
u2021-05-31-83	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. We are talking about a typical salad law, where the government may wish to amend laws that are only partially related to each other, 12 laws in Article 85. I do not want to repeat what has been said in the general debate, but the fact that it has not been thought through is nothing more typical than that the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment in 30 points and not a linguistic or stylistic one. What Lóránt Keresztes told me about the water utility issue is that in vain there are parts to be absolutely supported in this law, electricity, gas supply, electronic measurement, XXI. It's like a drop of poison in a glass of wine, but it's more serious than a drop of water that spoils it. By the way, the water utility had already been published in this law, and in November you adopted a law that changed the system of the water supply tax. For example, the result was that the tax on Metropolitan Waterworks increased from HUF 729 million to HUF 3.2 billion. But they couldn't put this paragraph well, so now it had to be brought back here again to make it clear that what they said at the time was reflected in the actual text of the law. At the last moment, however, the Economic Committee submitted that amendment, so it was not presented by the Government. So what happens now? Once again, the serious change mentioned by my fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, is presented at the last minute, not even by a commission, but by the TAB. So, despite the positive elements, Jobbik, of course, cannot support this amendment or amendment. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-31-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask Mr Broken... [[For signal:]] No, Mr Attila Steiner, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-31-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The summarised amendment before you proposes amendments to a number of laws and, in addition to the detailed arguments made in the general debate, allow me to respond briefly to them. The amendment of the Electricity Act, which provides for a majority decision on the basis of the ownership share of the persons concerned, rather than a unanimous decision in the case of a common property, facilitates the acceleration of the network development investments necessary for the proliferation of renewable energy production. The amendment thus specifies the cases in which, in view of the failure of the communication, the co-owner's consent should be deemed to have been granted in response to the request for consent. In the case of common property, this is the case. The legal barriers to ownership and use of public interest prior to civil rights settlement will be removed. Amendments to the laws on mining, the supply of natural gas and the supply of district heating include technical corrections, clarification and clarity. The amendment of the Utility Tax Act for taxable persons operating in the natural gas and electricity sectors amends the current methodology for calculating the tax liability, introduces a more progressive calculation in a single band, resulting in a fairer distribution, and the revenue from public finances does not change. The amendment of the law on material conditions for the religious and public activities of churches clarifies the concept of a religious community with legal personality in order to establish the internal coherence of the bill. The summary amendment also concerns the Communications Act. The proposed amendments further simplify the procedures for the deployment of high-speed networks. Among the legislative amendments to the bill on public service matters, it is necessary to amend the water utility law. In view of the fact that, in order to increase the sustainability of the water utility service system, it is appropriate to prioritise the responsibility of the State for the care of the local authorities rather than the responsibility of the local authorities, the amendment under the bill allows the transfer of ownership of municipal water utility systems only to the State responsible for the supply, by transfer at registration value, free of charge. Just as Mr Crusades has used the conditional method, the municipalities can hand it over, so that it is basically voluntary, not coercion. In connection with the transfer of water utility assets, the proposal also lays down rules on the transfer of resources not used for the development of the water utility and the termination of the operational relationship concerned. The bill also contains some proposals on the transformation of the waste management sector. Here we will continue the recent transformation of the waste management sector. The amendment to the Waste Act requires a natural person, like scrap metal, to store waste on his property. The storage of illegal waste is currently prohibited, but no quantitative limit has been laid down previously. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the coming period, the government will continue to implement specific measures to implement the points set out in the climate and nature conservation action plan. In the future, our priorities include the elimination of illegal waste, the transition to a circular economy, the widest possible spread of renewable energy production and the promotion of green transport. Some elements of the bill before you were born in this spirit, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-31-86	Thank you very much, Attila Steiner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering a recess; we'll proceed with the immediate questioning at 4:30 p.m. (Recess: 16.00 16.32) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Dr. Ádám Steinmetz)
u2021-05-31-87	Ladies and gentlemen, Take your seats. We're back in session. I welcome you all with love. It's time for immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Péter Jakab, leader of the group and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I give the floor to Mr. Peter James. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-05-31-88	Thank you for the floor. Well, Prime Minister, I feel like I'm back in the days before the change of regime. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: near Gyurcsány! Intercoms.]] The other day, I said a word here in Parliament. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I said, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Look, Comrade Prime Minister... Prime Minister, I honestly admit that I'm ideologically untrained. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Not just like that!]] Therefore, as an old communist, I would like to ask you for advice from an apologies, a young Democrat, that 32 years after the so-called change of regime, what are the words for which there is a punishment in Hungary for saying it. For example, what would you call politicians who shake rags with public money? What would you call, say, the lover of women's luxury bags, Antal Rogán? Or what would you call László Fat, who buys eight carpets for 135 million forints during the crisis? Or what would you call Happy István, who, according to the news, went to Vienna for bribes to buy luxury suits? Or what would you call government members who lie about living on wages and salaries, but who actually ride a luxury plane to a football game like you? Well, what would you call it? Street fighter? [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] You know, the thing is, you guys are just really hurtful. You'll be confronted with a true word, and immediately the mustache starts shaking, pushing my microphone, and then you'll be punished for ten million. I just don't understand why they're so upset. Well, you've already called us bitches, our voters slops, women pathetic, children common good, workers prol, doctors butlers, me stinking jerks. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And I'm supposed to call you, I don't know, squirrel or... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] After they raided the country after they made the Hungarians beggars of Europe? Well, the thing is, you're not actually punishing me here, you're punishing a nation, not tens of millions, but thousands of billions of forints. So now I have one question, Prime Minister, in view of your sensitive mind, after Petőfi's freedom, what should I call you? [[László Szászfalvi: Pathetic! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-89	Mr. Fraction Manager, there is also a limit to personal address in Parliament. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Which one?]] Thank you. [[Interview from Jobbik: Literature style!]] I'll give the Prime Minister an answer. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-05-31-90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, We'll listen to you here many times. You're a faction leader, leader of a parliamentary party. [[James Peter: And I am even honest!]] Which is a serious matter, so we took you seriously for a while. But we've all heard today that you're already in another genre, you're actually a comedian who makes a clown out of you every week in front of us. [[Peter James: In a year you will not laugh! The president's ringing the bell.]] These clown tricks cost voters a little bit, 6 million forints a month. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] That's what voters spend every month on your stunts, pay, car and driver. [[Peter James: I don't use any luxury airplanes, I swear!]] Everyone also knows that Ferenc Gyurcsány is in charge in your square [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Uh-oh! Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] And he's gonna hire you. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] We also know that he doesn't use it for reason. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] but to put a rattle cap on your head, and you're busy shaking it. [[Peter James: We're going to wear prison clothes on you!]] Shake and shake. I know your boss is pleased with you. [[A voice from Jobbik's ranks:]] But we're not. For six million, we expect more witty stunts, please pull yourself together. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-31-91	A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Mr. Peter James.
u2021-05-31-92	Then, Prime Minister, what exactly can we call you now? I think we should agree on the thief, okay? Just because the KSH has just published the latest data on paying attention to an average Hungarian household! You should have 16 million forints in savings. 16 million! If you hadn't stolen this money from the Hungarian families...
u2021-05-31-93	Congressman...
u2021-05-31-94	I remember him, three...
u2021-05-31-95	Mr. Team Leader, I'm sorry, you're saying things that don't have any legal basis. [[Peter James: Oh, my gosh! Intercoms from Jobbik and the ruling parties.]] If you're going to keep this up, I'm going to have to take the floor away from you. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]]
u2021-05-31-96	So, I remember telling you three years ago here in Parliament that I've never spoken to so many criminals in my life. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] You know, the problem, Prime Minister, is that when I look at you, I still see that you would come up with a complete Hungarian prison team. God bless you, God bless you, I'd be cheering for you, if we were to be there with, say, a scarf like that, look at that. [[He raises a national-colored scarf, with the inscription "Pay for the Thieves!" and Moraj and interrogations in the ranks of the governing parties.]] It says on it, I know he likes football... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2021-05-31-97	I have to warn you...
u2021-05-31-98	[[Without sound:]] ... to make the thieves pay! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2021-05-31-99	...that you're...
u2021-05-31-100	[[Without sound:]] Let the thieves pay...
u2021-05-31-101	... not notified...
u2021-05-31-102	[[Without sound:]] I'm telling you right now, Baba Bandi. I know, right? [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Prime Minister...
u2021-05-31-103	Mr. Team Leader... [[Intercoms.]]
u2021-05-31-104	[[Without sound:]] ...the thing is...
u2021-05-31-105	Mr. Team Leader... [[Intercoms.]]
u2021-05-31-106	[[Without sound:]] ... we're gonna have to... we're gonna have the prison team...
u2021-05-31-107	Mr. Head of Staff, you go beyond the rules of the house, I can't do anything, I'm forced to take the floor. [[Peter James: Come on! Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from the ruling parties. Peter James: Really? All right, Bandi, we'll cheer together. András Tállai puts the scarf around his neck again. András Tállai removes the scarf from his neck and leaves his seat as Secretary of State for a short time. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] I'll ask the Prime Minister if he'd like to answer. [[Viktor Orbán is rising to speak.]] Yeah, for a minute...
u2021-05-31-108	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. I know it's not easy for you either, because you're running for Speaker of the House, and you're not running for boss, but that's the thing. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] In answer, however, all I want to say to you is that we all know that Jobbik is the most corrupt Hungarian party. [[James Peter: Woe! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Jobbik already, yes, your party was already for sale in the previous parliamentary term. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Very brave!]] you were still bought by a billionaire, and now you sold Jobbik to another billionaire, Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: And who received a scholarship? Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] This is your job, not really our business, because you have a founding document in which you wrote the following, and I quote: "The primary task ahead of the Jobbik Hungary Movement is the Communist successor party and the couple who joined with it. [[Péter Jakab, pointing to the pro-government representatives: All the KIS are here! Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] the removal of extremist liberals from political power. End of subpoena. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] The question is, what or how much did you get from Gyurcsány to get this sentence [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] erase it from the memory of the Jobbik. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Clap hard! I'm on a schedule. Dr. Brenner Koloman and Peter James applauded, "Long live the party!" Long live the party! Intercoms.]]
u2021-05-31-109	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister, without a wallet in charge of the management of national assets, an immediate question: å Another abuse of the extraordinary legal order? What will happen to the state's wealth? It's an address. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor. Here you go. [[16.40]]
u2021-05-31-110	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Welcome to Parliament, Madam Secretary. We rarely see you. You should come more often, because I see that both opposition representatives and press representatives are underestimating your work, because there would be no way to save any assets without your help and your signature. Therefore, I thought it was worth forcing you into Parliament to answer Parliament's questions, since you rarely do us this favor on your own. I would really like to ask you about a specific matter, which is a new instrument in your hands. A government decision was taken on this 78/2021 government decree, which concerns the fact that, from now on, for example, mining mineral assets can be sold privately on restricted tenders. This decision is about giving you the opportunity to do so on the grounds of a variety of emergencies, referring to the Covid threat situation, and the first such call for proposals has been made. If I have good information, then this is the mining site in Kiskunlacháza and South-Egyháza, where you announced a restricted, private tender for a mine site with a deadline of 7 May for a hundred billion dollars. In addition, they want to rent it, which is interesting because a mine that remained empty after the mining of a mine was no longer worth much to the state, but they thought it would make sense to rent it so privately for someone. That is why I would ask the Minister who the secret invited tenant to whom this is intended to be given, and what kind of asset transfer is behind this, in Hungarian for the applicant, why it cannot be known about this, and why it could not be sold in the same manner as it has always been done before, in every previous tender. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2021-05-31-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Andrea Mager. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2021-05-31-112	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As usual, we meet every year at my committee hearing. Then your problem was that I talk too much, and I'm going to try to answer your question in a short time. One thing I must confirm is that I am very pleased that the issue of national wealth is important to the left. You did not have a minister who had no wallet or wallet, who was responsible for national wealth, and instead you were fine-tuned. [[Moraj from the opposition parties.]] So I think it's hard... [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] So I confirm, Congressman, that national wealth is not to be feared by the national government. I would like to answer your specific question, because we are not handing over the wealth in opaque ways, but we have put out a private tender for the small-scale mining sites in Kiskunlacház. The relevant Emergency Government Decree clearly provides that mining rights acquired by the Hungarian State may be used by the issuing of a private tender in public or regulated cases for a limited period of time. The Government decree also states that, in the case of private tender, the tender will be issued if the transaction is carried out in order to achieve the objective of social, development policy or other aspects, and the Government has decided to do so in a decision. The Government therefore decided, in accordance with the legal requirements, of course, to issue a private tender for the joint exploitation of the mining right for small-scale mining sites in Kiskunlacház, in view of its high national importance. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-31-113	Thank you very much. In return, Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have indeed proved that you can talk about a lot of unnecessary things in two minutes, Madam Secretary. I'd like to warn you that you don't have a Ministry of Welfare, you don't have a Ministry of Health, you don't have a Ministry of Education, you don't have a Ministry of Environment. On that basis, I must add that none of these topics are important to you. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Oops! That's right.]] I mean, there's no such thing as a ministry. The other thing is that you still didn't answer my question about who was invited and why they were invited. Why should a hundred billion-dollar fortune be sold in closed tenders and restricted tenders? Why couldn't this be done in the same public way that this has always happened in the case of the Minister responsible for this subject, even if it wasn't called so, why can't it be done in the same way in an open tender? So who do you want to transfer this fortune to if you're so secretive about it? Your address may need to be changed: the minister responsible for the theft of national property. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Moore from the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That was witty!]]
u2021-05-31-115	A one-minute rejoinder is a matter for Madam Secretary.
u2021-05-31-116	I can only tell Mr President that the scale and value of national wealth has only increased since 2010. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Of course! You faked the stats!]] I think you should be proud of such a result. Of course they can't, because in your time, we were only aware of movements in the opposite direction. As far as the specific issue is concerned, the conditions are governed by a government decree. According to the government order, we acted legally and legally. MNV Zrt. On 21 April 2021 the Board of Directors announced a one-way private tender and these calls were sent to the participants. It's a tender, and several players are participating in it. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-31-117	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Harvesto has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-118	Dear House, Prime Minister! A country had coffee stuck in its throat last Friday, when you said in your usual one-man show, in your morning radio voice on Friday, that the epidemic had affected us, not only businesses, but also us workers, who live on wages and salaries. I'm one of them, so we've been through this epidemic. Mr. Prime Minister, many of the citizens have then said a word with a letter that makes the boy more delicious. [[Demercation from opposition parties.]] But here in the Democratic Coalition, the well-being of every Hungarian citizen, his life is important, we are interested in the story of everyone, yours. [[Uproar and clarity in the pro-government benches.]] Please tell me what difficulties you've had. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] during the plague! You lost your job, and after the third month, you didn't get a penny of state benefits? Has his income decreased, like 2.5 million Hungarians? You lost your job? He couldn't pay his rent, and he was on the street? [[Intruders from the ranks of Fidesz: Ouch!]] Did you lose your job and have to work as a pizza delivery guy? As a social worker, you took care of the disease victims and the elderly day and night and left out of the HUF 500,000 allowance? As an educator, you caught the plague at school, and despite the government's promise, you didn't get 100 percent sick? As a health worker, did you self - sacrificingly save the health of others by risking their own life and health, and then put a contract of employment on top of the epidemic that deprives them of all their rights? Please tell us, Prime Minister. What are the serious disadvantages for you as a wager and a wager during the plague? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-119	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-120	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, well, you've been working all this time to get me to lose my job, too. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] I do not resent that, but the truth is that they refused to participate in any kind of national cooperation. The only thing you cared about was how to weaken, to overthrow the government. [[16.50]] But if we're serious about this, I'd like to draw your attention to it, although I thought it was obvious in your case that people who don't make a living on their wages and salaries do. I know that your party is exceptional from this point of view, your party is the only party whose president lives on capital income. All of us, all the other party presidents and most of the Members live on wages and salaries, because we are employees. You and me both. Moreover, quite rightly, our salary is defined as being linked to the average income. If the average income increases, our wages and incomes increase. That's right, we laugh together. If the average income is reduced, our wages and our income are reduced because we cry together. I think it's a good system. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-31-121	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-122	Prime Minister, we agree on one thing: we are really working to get you to lose your job next year. [[Máté Kocsis: But we should work for the country!]] And the voters, hopefully, will do that. However, I am not worried about you, because you can always turn to family help, because your father's company has just received 1 billion HUF 136 million in dividends. Well, so much for who makes a living on wages and salaries and who makes a living on incomes. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: What's it to you?]]
u2021-05-31-123	A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-05-31-124	I guess I'll have to do it again, though I thought you obviously knew that. Some people live on capital income, and some people live on salaries. I'm one of the latter, and I don't intend to go to the other camp, thank you very much for your encouragement. They're not gonna get rid of me anyway if their plans are fulfilled, because as a Member of Parliament, I'm gonna stay here. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Who believes that in this country?]] As a wager and a wager, for a long time at your neck. Don't get your hopes up. You can count on my cooperation for the next 20 years. [[Delight and applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-31-125	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question that can be said to be professional, but on the one hand I have exhausted all the policy forums and on the other hand it is a multi-million-dollar investment and you are therefore the number one responsible. The Paks II. It's an investment. There is now a paper showing that the Russians have made this investment at least five years late, and there is also paper that this project is practically bleeding from a thousand wounds. It is quite shocking, Prime Minister, that, when new nuclear power plant blocks are authorised, the Director General of the licensing authority, his number one leader, resigns. That's quite a shock. But what is even more shocking, Prime Minister, is that so far 500 problems have been identified in the Russian design documentation, the Paks II, the design documentation of the new nuclear power plant blocks. Prime Minister, there is no answer to fundamental questions such as the issue of cooling in connection with the Danube water. But your experts, the government and the OAH also could not give a reassuring answer to the question raised by several experts that, because of a fault line, the issue of earthquake security was raised in the case of the site. But also for years, the government has not been able to provide a clear answer to the cost of decommissioning nuclear power plants, the disposal of waste, and why this is not taken into account when this gigantic project is planned. Prime Minister, you are constantly talking about energy independence and national sovereignty, but on the other hand, without asking the people, a gigantic Russian project has given rise to a debt of several generations on extremely unfavourable terms. Now that the Russians have delayed this project for several years, they have not been able to negotiate conditions that would have made borrowings at least a little more favourable. By the way, Russian dependence is also strengthened by the fact that we will be vulnerable to Russia in terms of technology and fuel. Prime Minister, you don't feel that the moment has come that there are so many and so many serious problems in Paks II. Is this project so brutally expensive that it's time to say that this has to be stopped? Don't you feel that instead of doing what you're about to do, putting the National Atomic Energy Agency under political control, it's time to ask people what you've failed to do in recent years? Thank you very much. (Dr. Adam Steinmetz in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2021-05-31-127	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-05-31-128	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, I chose the solution, and I thought that you would appreciate that, given that it is indeed an investment of high importance for the national economy, we asked a person with a special ministerial responsibility to manage and supervise this work, and János Süli was kind enough to take this job. I think he's the only one in this room who's ever seen a nuclear power plant on the inside, and in fact, he's the only one involved in building a nuclear power plant. I don't think we could have found a better person for the job of managing and supervising this investment. So I think that the investment in Hungary itself is carried out under proper supervision and control, and that you have Minister János Süli at your disposal on professional details. As far as the more general issues are concerned, I do not see that we will agree. [[Dr. László Keresztes says no to Lóránt.]] But if you told me what you knew I didn't agree with, you're gonna have to listen to me tell you what we know you're not gonna agree with. There is no climate protection and no green future without nuclear power. [[Szabó Timea: Yes, there is!]] This is an accepted item across the European Union, the European Union has first become neutral and later become a supporter or a supporter of nuclear energy. The other thing is, there's no low overhead without nuclear power. If there is no nuclear power, Hungarian families can pay two to three times the electricity they are paying now. Thirdly, the construction, the borrowing is particularly favourable and cheap, and what is more, we also have the possibility that if we want to go from Russian credit to a completely different international money market credit, if economic calculations warrant this. I therefore think that the contract has been concluded with due care, on good professional grounds, and that it is in Hungary's interest that we complete it on this basis. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-31-129	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-130	Prime Minister, we are convinced that you are wrong about nuclear power as a guarantee of climate neutrality. Nuclear power is not cheap, it is not green and it is not safe. If you were faced with the questions I asked you, you would see that and see that. Prime Minister, this is a multi-billion-dollar project that has owed generations of Hungarians. This is a serious political responsibility that belongs exclusively to you. I'm asking you not to burden a minister, not to burden János Süli. I always ask him, he always answers, but there is no answer to the questions I have mentioned, Prime Minister, this project is your responsibility, and it is your responsibility to answer not us opposition representatives, but the Hungarian people. But, Prime Minister, one more question. In 2015, you promised us Pécs that without our consent there would be no nuclear cemetery next to Pécs. Since then, it has been six years and has gone about 8 billion forints. We're in deep drilling right now, and we're in the process of research. You have deceived us, you, Prime Minister, have failed to fulfill your promise. Since they did not search alternative sites for a possible nuclear cemetery, it is a clear message that they do not even think about alternative sites. You owe the people of Pécs and Baranya an answer, Prime Minister, as to why you failed to fulfill your promise. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-31-131	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-132	I am working not simply to place nuclear waste in some safe place in Hungary, but to enable the Hungarian nuclear industry to switch to a next stage of development, not simply to burn fuel and then to transport or bury the residual material, but to work on extracting as much harmful, radioactive material as possible, processing spent fuel, and thus putting less and less polluting and hazardous material into a deep, granite-solid soil in Hungary. So I would ask that if you want to reduce the degree of danger, you would rather support the developments that want to move the Hungarian nuclear industry up a step. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-31-133	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Head of the Szabó Timea faction and Congressman Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister a question immediately: what is going on here? It's an address. Madam Head of the Szabó Timea faction. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-134	Prime Minister, I have in my hand the agreement signed by Gergely Gulyás, Balázs Fürjes and Gergely Christmas on 17 January 2020 at the construction of Budapest Student City. Point 3 (4) (c) of this Decision states: . The Council of Metropolitan Public Developments confirms that it provides college accommodation for 8-12 thousand university students under the Southern City Gate programme. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.00]] I'll show you the signatures again. [[He's showing me a document.]] There is no mention of the Chinese University of Fudan, 450 billion forints of Chinese credit or the complete sale of Hungary to the Chinese Communist Party. Tell me, Prime Minister, have you been lying about this since the beginning, or have you only later started lying to your own signatory people to the Hungarian people? You bring no one to the Chinese Communist Party's university with the tuition fee of two and a half million forints a year, so that the monthly salary of the instructors there is one and a half million forints, while the teachers working in Hungarian higher education are 300 thousand forints. Your government has allocated HUF 453 billion in next year's budget to total Hungarian higher education, while the Chinese Communist Party has allocated HUF 540 billion to this single university. Prime Minister! Tell us how much you or your family will get for selling out and betraying your own country. Because this, the University of the Chinese Communist Party in Budapest, is not good for any Hungarian people. Thank you for your reply.
u2021-05-31-135	Mrs. Freckles! He grazed everything the house rules made possible. [[Viktor Orbán: Thank you very much, Mr President.]] I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2021-05-31-136	If the congresswoman would allow me, I would like to help her know with some information. The first thing is that I haven't given a lecture at Fudan University, but Barack Obama and George Soros already did. So much for communism. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. György Szilágyi: Whose scholarship you were on!]] The second thing I would like to say to the impatient Members is that Fudan University is here in Hungary at the moment. [[It's a lot of noise. Szabó Timea: No, he's not here! Bence of Turdai: He's not here! He's got one training here!]] He's here at the University of Economics, under an agreement I made years ago with the Chinese government. So don't act like something brand-new is happening. This university is here in Hungary! The second thing I would like to say to you is that we are building a university city in which and as part of which everything we have undertaken is being built. There will be colleges and educational buildings. As far as the amounts are concerned, we are at the moment on the draft concept. You're getting a little ahead of yourselves. They're talking about hundreds of billions of different kinds of nonsense! The fact is, there aren't even any plans. When there are plans, then you can talk about the construction costs of the university city, how much of this is the college, how much of this is the education department. But we don't even have plans, everything's just fog-slapping, fog-eating and mood-provoking. We will make a final decision if we see the plans and see their budget. As far as university funding is concerned next year, you are very wrong: we will spend more than a thousand billion forints on university development next year. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Szabó Timea intervenes.]]
u2021-05-31-137	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-138	He's not telling the truth, Fudan University isn't here. He's got one piece of training. [[Defiance and uproar in the benches of the governing parties.]] And then, if I may suggest something, go, follow the example of George Soros and Barack Obama and give a lecture at Fudan University, not at Fudan University. By the way, you didn't answer my question. In 2011, you said: "A nation can be conquered in two ways, with a sword or debt. You are now in debt to conquer Hungary, your own country. We know that there will be a HUF 450 billion Chinese loan from the Chinese Communist Party. Prime Minister! You're a traitor! [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Intercoms on the pro-government side, among them: Shame on you! Nacsa Lawrence: Afghanistan! Afghanistan! There's always a lot of noise. The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] I'd like to surprise you. With a gift that... [[Constant intervention in the pro-government benches. Continue without sound:]] Think about whether you'd like to continue your prime minister career as a traitor, or...
u2021-05-31-139	Congresswoman, I would like to give you a warning for your expression. [[Szabó Timea continues without sound.]] Congresswoman! Congresswoman, according to the house rules, I am obliged to give you a warning again. [[There's always a lot of noise. Intervention from the opposition benches: You can treason in Parliament! Szabó Timea comes to Viktor Orbán with the mirror in his hand. Máté Orbán Kocsis stands by Viktor Orbán, speaking to Timea Szabó, then taking over the mirror and placing it on the table of György Balla. György Szilágyi: More than a bodyguard! Crying out.]] A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is a pity that I only have a minute because the matter of espionage, intelligence and influence was an important issue for the Member. This is an important matter that can be raised, for example, with regard to Chinese university, but also with regard to any other university. I'm sure you've seen the news that may have been published yesterday that, through the Danish secret service, the U.S. Secret Service has been monitoring Angela Merkel and the German government for years. [[Noise.]] So if someone thinks that intelligence and influence are something Eastern, then they're wrong. It's an integral part of interstate life. All I'd like to say to you right now is... [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] that well-organized services operate in Hungary, these services operate under the control of Parliament and are able to protect Hungary and Hungary from attempts to influence the West or the East. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. One voice, nice one. Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! Yay!]]
u2021-05-31-141	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How are the investigations on loan agreements concluded between Klára Dobrev and Csaba Czeglédy's companies? It's an address. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Don't take it!]] Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State for his reply because of his absence. [[On Dr. Gyula Budai's mark:]] Thank you very much. The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-142	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, On 21 February, the Attorney General informed me that the Budapest Police Department Since October 2018, Altus Portfolio Kft. has been investigating the crime of unauthorized financial activity. and Human Operator Ltd. Between 2016 and March 2017, since Klára Dobrev's company, Altus Portfolio, lent HUF 300 million to Csaba Czeglédy, Human Operator Zrt., four times between March 2016 and 2017, without having the Hungarian National Bank's permission to continue its activities. The MNB imposed a market surveillance fine on Altus Portfolio Kft. for this activity of HUF 15 million. On 17 March 2017, Altus Portfolio Kft. led by Dobrev Klára was also informed by the Attorney General that since February 2021 he has been investigating the crime of withdrawing the police debt. loaned HUF 35 million to Czeglédy's company, Human Operator Zrt., by transferring HUF 35 million to another company, Czeglédy's other company, Human Operator Zrt. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The reason for this was very simple, since in 2017 the Metropolitan Court ordered enforcement of Czeglédy's company and all its bank accounts were blocked by the executive. For both contracts, the loan agreement was signed by Klára Dobrev as a lender and Csaba Czeglédy as a borrower. In the meantime, as we know, Klára Dobrev, the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány became Prime Minister of the Democratic Coalition, while Ferenc Gyurcsány's tax fraud lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, will be launched in Szombathely. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you, how are the two cases under investigation? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-31-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I confirm that in the cases referred to by you, the Budapest Police Headquarters is investigating the offence of illegal financial activity or theft of debt. There are therefore criminal proceedings in these cases, honourable Member. The investigating authority held hearings with witnesses and requested the court to provide documents relevant to the case. Honourable Congressman, According to the unbroken practice of the Ministry of Interior, in view of the interests of the procedure, I cannot at present provide any further details of the case. Please take it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-31-145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-146	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The Mafia Left wants to hold the pro-government politicians responsible, whose former company, Klára Dobrev, whose candidate for Prime Minister, Altus played 100 million from EU funds to Czeglédy's criminal company, who financed left-wing campaigns with this money. [[17.10]] The Czeglédy Csaba who ran and controlled a criminal organization and stole 6.3 billion forints; the Czeglédy Csaba, who is currently under blackmail and is a suspect in it. From here I tell Ferenc Gyurcsány he's not here again, Dobrev and Black Győr, that they'd better sweep around their own house and clean up the criminals there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Crying out of Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-05-31-147	Thank you very much. For a one-minute rejoinder, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where the laws are binding on everyone. If you break the law, you have to bear the consequences. I can assure you that the Hungarian police will take action against every criminal in every settlement in Hungary in order to comply with the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Nunkovics has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, In March 2014, in Saudi Arabia, in front of businessmen in the Middle East and Hungary, you found that the Hungarian labour force is surprisingly cheap compared to its quality, and you also indicated that the labour code is sufficiently flexible if necessary. The strange thing about life is that when you said those words or left your mouth, I was a factory worker. So when you said this sentence in front of a beautiful audience, you obviously thought of me for millions of workers who actually work in a factory. Don't you think it's irresponsible for a prime minister to say and lure the multinationals here, who exploit them, not all of them, but yes, there are a lot of them that don't appreciate Hungarian workers, and you say that you lure them here by saying that the Hungarian workforce is cheap? Prime Minister, this is no way for a Prime Minister to attract foreign investors. A Prime Minister should tell you to come here, dear investors, we will help you to build a factory, expand, give you a quality Hungarian workforce, but you will have to pay this quality Hungarian workforce hard. We are not asking for Asian wages and non-North African wages: we are asking for European wages for Hungarian workers. You know, Prime Minister, this is what Hungarian workers want. And you know what they don't want? They don't want a flexible labour code, they don't want a labour law that Lajos Kósa here, unfortunately, is not here, but what he dreamed of, and in 2018 he was famous as a slave law. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] And it's not a coincidence that name, you can bloat, but it's not a coincidence. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But we didn't name it, the people did. And my question, Prime Minister, is that you are finally willing to work for the Hungarian workforce and that Hungarian people should receive adequate wages in Hungary. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-151	I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-05-31-152	Indeed, there is much truth in what you have said, because the quality of Hungarian workers is comparable to the quality of German workers, and their wages are not. And anyone who says that's gonna happen tomorrow morning is lying. So it takes time for the Hungarian workforce to get the wages they deserve on the basis of their quality. The question is, who's working for this? This is what the Hungarian government is working for. If you look at the raises, you can see them. And you can see it in particular, because you're saying it was a worker, that's right. He is now a Member of Parliament and is earning HUF 1 816 200; as a worker, congratulations, plus reimbursement and petrol money. I would like to add that your salary has increased by 350,000 forints in the last two years, or 25 percent. I would like to point out that from this position, the comment we have just heard is more than false. [[Constant intervention from Jobbik's ranks, including James Peter: You too will receive money!]] The fact is that your salary was able to rise because the Hungarian economy has done well in recent years, and that your salary has increased, it was based on the fact that average incomes have increased in Hungary. I suggest you compare the data that was known to your ally Ferenc Gyurcsány during his administration, how much people earned then and see how much they earn after ten years of national government. And you will see that the Hungarian man has approached the value of the labour force, and if we are to govern for a few years and hope that we will, this upward dynamic and development will last longer, and we will catch up with the level of wages of the countries that are still ahead of us today. [[Peter James: You mean the Romanians, don't you?]] They're not here for us. They're here for your allies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] who've given people communist wages for 40 years. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Crying out of Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-05-31-153	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tibor Nunkovics. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-154	Mr. Prime Minister, I can partly agree with what you're saying. And you know what? You're right, it's just that these sentences left your mouth seven years ago, and in seven years, nothing has changed. [[Uproar, clarity, interrogation from the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because people's salaries are worth less now than seven years ago. Even more than seven years ago, people's salaries are worth less. And, you know, I didn't vote for my salary, I wasn't a Member of Parliament in 2018, you voted for my salary, and I spend a quarter of it every month for charity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. James Peter: And you steal it.]]
u2021-05-31-155	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-05-31-156	Let's repeat and taste the congressman's sentence. Because it shows the seriousness of Jobbik, how much they can be expected, and how much they can be imagined as a party capable of doing things for working people. The Member and Jobbik's faction claim that in the last seven years, wages have not increased in Hungary and that people do not live better than they did seven years ago. [[Constant intervention from the pro-government and opposition ranks.]] This is quite simply, I beg your pardon in advance, I call it perplexed Balkan lying.
u2021-05-31-157	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question with the title "Fifteen Years of Autumn Speech." It is for Congressman István Hollik. [[For signal:]] One moment, please. Now, Mr. Secretary, to whom the congressman will speak, I now give the floor.
u2021-05-31-158	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Fifteen years ago, the then Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, secretly called the comrades to Balatonősd, and there secretly confessed to them that they had won the election by lying. [[James Peter: Well, you too! You guys don't even admit it.]] And by doing so, he has set the political low of the three decades since the change of regime, and he has even created and created a new unit of political unscrupulousness, the autumn, and has also defined the maximum of this unit of measurement, a autumn of lies. 'Cause this is the most unscrupulous act anyone's ever done since, and there's a lot of competition on the left. The fact is that as Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány broke his parliamentary oath, he tricked the voters; everyone, but especially the voters who trusted and voted for him. What did you say? We lied in the morning, in the night and in the evening. It looks like they couldn't make it at noon. Lunch breaks are lunch breaks, even in the middle of a lie tsunami. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] But what happened after that is also very instructive. Apology? Resignation? No. More like an infinite attachment to power, an attack on a horse, an eyeball, all the more so. In fact, after fifteen years, Ferenc Gyurcsány leads the left again, and as captain of the team he can even boast of new certificates. He confirmed the Jobbik, who was created against him. Poor Jobbik seems to be bought by an oligarch every four years. 4 years ago Simicska Lajos [[Uproar and interrogation from the ranks of Jobbik and the governing parties.]] And now the biggest left-wing oligarch, Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.20]] But then he confirmed the new globalists, the Momentumists, led by András I don't know. The question is therefore entirely justified: how can the moral sense of the left be so hyperpassive that Ferenc Gyurcsány is still accepted as their leader? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-159	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is this what you do?]]
u2021-05-31-160	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, As regards the events in autumn 2006, let us not only forget that the Gyurcsány Party actually won the election in a lie at the time. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You too!]] But let us not forget what happened next in Budapest, when, indiscriminately, peaceful protestors were tortured and beaten to blood by the government's orders. At the time, there was a subcommittee that examined the events in autumn 2006. There, a 20-year-old woman with a clean family background with no criminal record said about her own calvary, "We reached the radio building, where, by the way, the police captured her by going home, doing nothing, talking about a 20-year-old, fragile young lady, I didn't know that we had been taken to the radio building until we were released. But his girlfriend saw him, because when he was brought in, he looked up, and it said "Hungarian Radio." I just sensed that they'd take us somewhere where they'd hand us over to new people again. We went into the courtyard, and people were kneeling at the wall in the yard. They put us at the end of the line, and I was kneeling between two people I knew. There they yelled at us, yelled at us, told us that if we bounced, they'd kick us. And we were so scared, they put us very close to the wall. For a very long time, I don't know how long we were on our knees there for about an hour or two. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] No one could sit on his feet because the blood went out of our feet. Meanwhile, they brought another man. Then a boy got an asthma attack next to us and said he wanted a pipe. They started digging through his clothes, kicking him, beating him, scolding him, and they said that if you were really asthmatic, you'd have pissed him off and he was drowning. That's what I heard, but I couldn't see it because it was a few yards away, but I couldn't look. Meanwhile, his girlfriend said, "Oh, my God, there's blood coming out of your head." I had my hair out and blood dripping out of my hair, but I told him not to worry about me so he wouldn't get beat up for talking to me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is the human rights standard introduced by Ferenc Gyurcsány, and you joined him. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Yes! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-161	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. István Hollik is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-162	Thank you very much. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, we can see that the type of unscrupulousness we experienced 15 years ago is also part of the left. Let's just look at the last year and a half. In terms of vaccinations, for example, what has the left been doing for a year, supplemented by Jobbik? They talked everyone out of the vaccine, and they gave it to you. Or here today, Ferenc Gyurcsány was missing the debate, and the Prime Minister is coming in, and he is at the disposal of all left-wing representatives, where is Ferenc Gyurcsány? At times like this, he runs away from the possibility of a debate. So it is quite clear that there is no change on the left, there is no other left, there is no other Gyurcsány. It is quite clear that, in order for Hungary's future to be successful, it is necessary to overcome the past that has been soaked with your Autumn. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! That's right. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-05-31-164	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Let's be fair to the opposition too, asking where Ferenc Gyurcsány is at 5:30 p.m. is not fair. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell. Peter James: And where is the Prime Minister?]] Let's not rule out that he's at home in a villa the Tiny family got because they were involved in retaliation and execution of people, and now you're being instructed to do what you're supposed to do. We hope that the political era when it was possible to win elections by lying, when people exercising their peaceful right of assembly could be beaten to blood without consequences, and when the country could be destroyed without consequences. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-165	Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Who will protect the schoolchildren? It's an address. Madam Member, I respectfully ask you, because of Minister's absence, you have appointed Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, to answer the question and accept the person who is responding.
u2021-05-31-166	Thank you, Mr. President, I accept.
u2021-05-31-167	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congresswoman Anett has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The government side has been talking for a long time about a single figure in relation to disease management, and that is the graftation and our position on the European rankings in this respect. Vaccination is an effective, necessary, but not sufficient condition for successful disease management. Sad news is that even though we are in second place in Europe with grafting, the number of deaths of Covid is one of the highest in the world. We continued to finish in the first 20 places in terms of how many people died in one day in proportion to their population. The mortality rate per million inhabitants is close to 3,000 people, which, unfortunately, has kept us at the forefront of the world in recent months, Mr. Secretary of State. Before you tell me again that I'm anti-vaccination, I'd like to tell you that I'm one of the first people to register for vaccination, and that's what I encouraged everyone to do. He would deserve a special speech about what happened to my registration, that I had to find my own registration a long time later, and follow up on why I had to go back in the order of vaccination, but in this respect I say that I am correct to you, and I do not want to go through the public with this. [[Noise.]] What raises further problems is the fact that the only number of these numbers is mentioned by the government, this graftation, but we hear little, Mr Secretary of State, that you say that Germany, which is supposed to have fallen behind, for example, in order of vaccination, and which has fallen behind in grafting, will also start to extinguish the 12-16-year-old population next week. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State when our children will come, at least those who suffer from some chronic illness. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the DK and MSZP lines.]]
u2021-05-31-169	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-31-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I urge you to be the first one to withdraw the parliamentary resolution that you have submitted together on the left. [[Noise, applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] and prohibit the use of Chinese and Russian vaccines. This might be a nice, exemplary step for you. You know, if what has happened to you today on the National Assembly website, as described by Ferenc Gyurcsány's first Parliamentary Resolution, but also listed by you, 2 million more people would still be at risk of the coronal virus today, 2 million more people could get sick, 2 million more people could be hospitalized, there would be more risk of being on a ventilator or unfortunately dying in the coronal virus epidemic. Please be the first to withdraw this, but at least apologize, honourable Member. I think we can all be happy that we managed to overcome the third wave of the coronal virus thanks to vaccines. In recent days, the 19 and 5 numbers were the only ones indicating the number of people who died, honourable Member. It is a common national success that we have been able to triumph over the virus. We have been able to do this in Hungary because we do not have the military power, we do not have the financial power like other countries, we do not have our own vaccine factory, we do not have other countries with a higher graft rate in Hungary. Because it is higher than the United States, the average of the European Union In Hungary, the graft rate, while, let's say, the US has its own vaccine factory, can produce vaccines in several European countries. That's how we managed to achieve it. Those who have recognised these results are WHO experts, such as the Hungarian office manager, European leaders, and other global leaders who have constantly attacked Hungarian defence, the Hungarian left with Kamuvideos, fake statistics or such parliamentary resolutions. Madam Congresswoman, I would like you to be the first to withdraw this proposal for a resolution. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congresswoman Versus Anett. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-172	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, let me list some facts about the Chinese vaccine because I asked you to put this debate on a professional basis instead of political hysteria. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The Chinese vaccine has been known since then to be highly questionable about the development of immunity in people over 65 years of age. [[17 .30]] It is no coincidence, for example, that you are not recommending pregnant or nursing mothers, nor is it a coincidence that our compatriots under the age of 18 have been vaccinated with Western vaccines, just as our fellow Western Europeans have done. Since then, a number of people have asked for confirmation of the development of antibodies and protection by those of the older age group, because our vaccination schedule has gone down from them, otherwise they are quite rightly afraid that after the Chinese vaccine, their protection has not developed. Answer that, Mr. Secretary. I think that these are, for example, relevant issues. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He still continues! It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2021-05-31-173	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Get your attention! A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-31-174	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Amazing and outrageous, Congresswoman, that you are using the public of Parliament to spread false news about the Chinese vaccine, such false news [[Anett's intruding.]] which the World Health Organization disproved. You've said this for weeks and months, the WHO has denied it, the American pharmaceutical agency and many others have denied it, but you're deaf to the WHO's opinion, you're deaf to any kind of expert opinion, all you care about is your political goal to dissuade people from the vaccines. You're telling a net lie, Congresswoman, because you're being disproved by the WHO. [[Avenging Anett: That's not true!]] It's unacceptable for you to sweep any expert's opinion off the table in a minute! Of course, he is a good student of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In recent years, Hungary has acquired as many vaccines from Pfizer as 7.3 million, either in warehouses or under orders, 1.2 million from Moderna, 4 million from Janssen, 4.7 million from AstraZeneca, so that we can guarantee the protection of Hungarian people, including minors, for a long time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-175	Thank you very much. It's 5:32 p.m., and we've got an hour of immediate questioning. That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue our work by taking decisions on the agenda. Everyone, please take your seats. I need the room service to check that the microphones in the horseshoe are reset. [[It's happening. It's a short break.]] Thank you very much. The room service indicates that the microphones have been switched. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] Thank you. 159 Members present, 40 away. Parliament has a quorum. [[Tamás Vargha reporting.]] I would like to ask Mr. Tamás Vargha to check in the benches that the transfer has been made. I'm waiting for you from upstairs, from the technical staff... [[For signal:]] Tamás Vargha, it's okay, they're signaling me. [[On Tamás Vargha's mark:]] Yeah, it's fine there, too. Thank you very much. I guess they're all fine. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, representative of Jobbik, I/16373. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 45 votes against and one abstention. Zsolt Molnár, representative of MSZP, I/16186. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 44 votes against and one abstention. Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, I/16298. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 45 votes against and one abstention. Péter Ungár, representative of LMP, I/16368. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 45 votes against and one abstention. Mr Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, I/16371. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 45 votes against and one abstention. Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, I/16372. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 45 votes against and one abstention. It follows a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Romania, between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Romania, on 24 July 2014 T/16211. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16211. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament of T/16211. The bill was adopted by 164 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following is the UNEP Secretariat of the Agreement on the Protection of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds, represented by the Government of Hungary and the United Nations on the 8th meeting of the Parties to the African-Eurasian Agreement on the Protection of Migratory Waterbirds [[5-9 October 2021 Budapest, Hungary]] T/16288. Final vote of bill No 1. [[17.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16288. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 154 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. We now have T/15999 on the amendment of certain energy and public service laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15999/7. T/15999/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15999/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 42 against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15999/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes to 38, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Take your seats, we would like to continue our work, and I would ask that the speeches after the agenda be held Listen to the speakers. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question... [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]] Sorry, we're on the question. Fellow Members! I can't start until those who want to leave the meeting room leave. I apologize to Congressman Zoltán Magyar. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: "How long will rural policy remain? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed a Minister without a wallet in charge of the management of the national assets of Mr Mager, who is competent and competent according to the subject. The question will be answered by Secretary of State János Fónagy on behalf of the Minister. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-31-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Last week, the pro-government press was loud about saving Hungarian villages, capitalising on them, and finally starting a meaningful rural development. They promise 540 hectares to the Hungarian villages, this means 2055 real estates, and about 935 settlements are mentioned as potential destinations, who can then receive these properties. The numbers may sound good at first, but let's look behind them. As a party to the countryside, Jobbik has always stood up for the Hungarian villages, all the grievances which have been forced to be recorded in the past, we have constantly brought it to the Parliament, and in recent years we have also tried to provide them with additional opportunities in the budget. Unfortunately, these were not supported. We were also in favour of the villages when they reduced their room for manoeuvre in a material sense, or even when the local governments were constantly adapting to the arbitrariness they were applying to them. There is a huge contrast between the words published in the articles and reality. What does 540 acres mean? If we translate it, there's 0.58 hectares for one settlement. Just so you understand, there's no way to make a football field out of this. We are talking about five construction sites, so it is clear that this is far from about saving villages. On the other hand, when you privatised public land in Hungary, most of the most greasy land and the best quality, which Hungarian villages would have needed and needed, they were not offered to participate in the auctions. They should have raised their voice in favour of the Hungarian villages when there was still something to offer to these settlements. Now, let's not be surprised if I call what you're doing a rural-destructive policy, and this whole situation is incredibly brazen and cynical. I look forward to your substantive response, and please do not say that this step will help any Hungarian settlements. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-177	The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy, as we have heard. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-31-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, At the press conference mentioned by you, it was said that the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. is the Hungarian National Property Management Company within the framework of the Hungarian Village. the state assets available for direct management have been reviewed and these assets provide the basis for the offer to the municipalities concerned. MNV Zrt. properties subject to the exercise of ownership rights, such as residential houses, houses with courtyards, unbuilt land, are, by their nature, less territorial than the agricultural land estates belonging to the National Land Fund with an average of several hectares intended for agricultural production, but also have different uses. Congressman, you know that. As Congressman suggests, on average, five construction sites per settlement, since the offer contains such properties for use, it is appropriate to remain with the example of Governor Alpár Gyopáros, quoted by you, to provide substantial assistance in the situation where, for example, a kindergarten grows its territory. Through this offer, the potential for wealth growth by municipalities is real; it cannot be compared with agricultural land in quality, functional or territorial terms. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.50]]
u2021-05-31-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: - How does the Hungarian Government intend to return the sacrifices of regular blood donors? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-31-180	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Mr. President. According to the National Blood Service, domestic health needs 390,000 blood donations a year. This means that continuous blood supply can be ensured by a daily tax of 1600-1800. Volunteers who gave a lifetime of blood have always played a major role in domestic blood supply. Thanks to their sacrificial help, it is possible to treat victims of accidents and to treat patients with certain diseases. However, the number of blood donations has been on a downward trend for years, so it is increasingly important to encourage, reciprocate, and, of course, encourage blood donation in some way. That is why we proposed in the proposal for a decision that every Hungarian citizen over 65 years of age who can prove at least a hundred voluntary blood donations should receive a pension supplement of HUF 100 thousand per month. This means 120 million in the budget for 100 people. As far as I know, there are 800 of them. Since blood can only be given four or five times a year, 100 times is practically a lifetime of blood donation, Mr. Secretary of State. Unfortunately, there is not much of such a persistent donor, so the proposal would not be a particular burden for the budget, as I have just indicated. At the same time, this gesture can be a proper thanks to all those who have helped save the lives of fellow humans throughout their lives, and we know that those who give blood give life can save three lives. At the same time, this recognition can be an incentive for present and future blood donors, which in the long term can ensure the smooth supply of Hungarian blood. In view of all this, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State, considering that the proposal I made was not appropriate, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] why the proposal for a decision to reward blood donors for a lifetime has been rejected and why the pension supplement for regular blood donors has not been supported. I hope you have a better idea. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-31-181	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-31-182	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, we can thank blood donors very often, because without them there are many operations that could not be done, without them very many lives could not be saved. There's a controlled blood donation when you donate blood to someone you know, a relative's surgery, but there are people who donate blood to save anyone's life. I think we should thank you both very much. Pro Vita awards are awarded each year on the day of blood donors to those who, in the case of men, had 60 blood donors, because, as you said, this is an almost lifelong commitment. The Hungarian Red Cross and the National Blood Service are presenting themselves, and the Minister of Health is honoring blood donors with medals and gifts in every county. Volunteering and non-payment are very important principles of blood donation, because we are really giving something that we can only give ourselves, our blood, and we can really save someone's life here. If someone was on a blood drive, I think we were almost all on it, we could see that someone was always getting a calorie supplement package, something to drink, something to eat, to replace the energy that had left his body while resting, or to receive carbohydrate food or other fluids on the spot for blood donors. There are more critical periods, especially during the summer holiday, when there are particularly many calls for blood donation, as regular blood donors also go less during this period, and there may be longer holidays. In such cases, they receive a package of gifts beyond the general benefits, or a food voucher or other symbolic gifts, or regular blood donors regularly organize national blood donors' celebrations, with diploma, reception, precisely to recognise their activities. I think it's important that we continue to acknowledge their offer as much as possible. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Their blood donation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-31-183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why hasn't so few of them ever worked in shops helped by the government? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Secretary Tamás Schanda will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-31-184	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, According to official statistics, there have never been as few shops in the street as in the first quarter of 2021. The number of people employed is 21,000 fewer than a year earlier, but the decline is 20,000 compared to the 2020 average. The number of shop employees in the first quarter of 2021 was only 351 thousand, which is a negative record. In this indicator, everyone who works in stores, entrepreneur, employee alike, regardless of the size of the business. Even sadder is the tendency that, if we add that in the second quarter of this year, despite the fact that the number of people has fallen even more, some support could be obtained in contrast to previous years in order to maintain the workforce. That's the sad fact-- roll-downs, people on the street. According to the survey, the average street shopkeepers failed in bulk due to a lack of financial reserves. In addition, industrial shopkeepers had to suffer not only the closures, but also the loss of the market for the other months. From March 2020 until April this year, industrial shopkeepers lost HUF 600 billion in restrictions on the coronal virus epidemic. That's a lot, you can't survive without a layover. Many shopkeepers hoped to help the state, but very few benefited from it. A lot of shopkeepers were hoping for improvements, re-openings, but that doesn't help either, I see. Mr. Secretary. The culture of classical shop shopping is lost, the view is depressing: closed blinds. What about them, why didn't the state help? Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-05-31-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-05-31-186	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In case you hadn't noticed, at the beginning of the year, the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic swept through the country more than ever before. In the meantime, you and you on the left were conducting an anti-vaccination campaign that put the lives of the Hungarian people at risk. Even at this difficult time of men's health and jobs, they had nothing else to think about but gaining power. You have recently entered the ATV, where you called the government's vaccination efforts a false solution, which means that you can still do nothing but continue to constantly harass and mood against safe and effective vaccines, while saving the health and life of Hungarian people and saving their jobs. Honourable Congressman, Under the emergency regulations, businesses selling non-daily consumer goods have been closed to protect life, and while you have prepared the political clown of Ferenc Gyurcsány, we have helped businesses in difficulty. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The government has provided sectoral wage support to firms in difficulty due to the corona virus epidemic. In March-April this year, retail companies were able to make use of it, with HUF 90 billion for 180 000 employees. Most companies came from clothing stores. And while we have done so, honourable Member, you have only hindered our defence. Moreover, when they had the opportunity to support sectoral wage support here in Parliament, they did not do so. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You didn't vote for this either. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.00]]
u2021-05-31-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance a question, "Why doesn't Szombathely actually receive compensation?" It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Gergely Gulyás, Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent on the subject, State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer the question. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2021-05-31-188	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The government withdrew money from the municipalities on the basis of the coronal virus epidemic, by the way, Viktor Orbán considered Austria a laboratory, and there they gave money to the municipalities. The city of Szombathely can manage HUF 3.6 billion less because this money has been taken away by the government. After withdrawal, such a very interesting Kafka story began, where they said that they would be compensated. Cities were also compensated, from which money was withdrawn: in the case of Győr 1.38 billion, in the case of Székesfehérvár 1.38 billion and in the case of Zalaegerszeg more than 2 billion forints were compensated by the government, in the case of Szombathely Csaba Hende as a statue of his lobbying activity. The thing is, you guys took money and then didn't return this money for one reason: because the people in Saturday in 2019 didn't vote for your candidate. The fact is that what you are going to say and what is written on your paper about the tax force as an argument about which city is being compensated is not true because Győr is stronger than Szombathely, but has received 1.38 billion more. In Hungarian: this is all about political revenge, a political revenge that does not build parking places in the KISZ settlement, which is why there is a road, which cannot be patched up, and which is why services suffer in the everyday life of people living in the city. And they did this simply out of political vengeance, even though the Prime Minister promised that he would cooperate with all city leaders in the same way, regardless of party political affiliation. So my question is why people in Saturday are being punished.
u2021-05-31-189	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ungár. I'm gonna follow you again because instead of three minutes, there were only two before. I'm sorry about that. I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész.
u2021-05-31-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Then I'd rather not say what you thought of my paper, or I'd say it through someone in advance. I'm going to tell you facts. First of all, the left, your political partners, were the ones who bled out and destroyed the municipalities. It is enough to think that, for example, between 2011 and 2014, it was the Fidesz-KDNP government that compensated the city of Szombathely with HUF 15.1 billion and took over its debt. Your political partners put this city in such a position. The second fact: due to poor management and the catastrophic nature of the management of the country, the business tax in 2010 was 4.3 billion in this otherwise very important and beautiful city. As a result of good leadership, good farming, this figure increased by two and a half times in ten years, last year Szombathely's business revenue was HUF 10.4 billion. This is due to the investments made in Szombathely and, of course, thanks to the huge road investments and infrastructure investments contributing to the development of the city. However, during this period, in which we are now involved, you know very well that we have helped local businesses, precisely so that the city of Szombathely does not need social support, gives help to the needy, fallen people, so that local entrepreneurs can keep the workforce. All of this can be said as a continuation, those infrastructure investments continue, new developments of historical importance are under way: Szombathely northeast bypass, Szombathely-Kőszeg expressway, Szombathely-Church Radius expressway. I'd like to ask your new friends, billionaire friends. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Among other things, ask Czeglédy Csaba where Szombathely's money went. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-191	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, Notary Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Minister, without a wallet in charge of managing the national assets, how does the government play over the foundations of the fallen Fidesz people in Buda? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2021-05-31-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Mr. Secretary. The government is preparing to fail, packing the Orbán Cabinet, but they seem to think they can take the public property with them. Compared to the privatization of universities and the establishment and filling of public-service trust foundations, the bloodiest robbery was also the morning matinee, where we received at least some minimal compensation in exchange for the transferred public assets. Here they hand over the hundred billion-dollar fortune to the 1 percent, the foundations stuffed with fidesz vassals, in the belief that they can, of course, keep it for all eternity, unwarranted. At our house, Buda, the II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. In the district, too, our common fortune, the 99 percent of the money, goes completely unscrupulous into the pockets of fallen Fidesz people, as I showed this morning in a four-part series on the spot. In the 4th constituency of Budapest, Mihály Varga, the president of the Orgasm Foundation, who took over the University of Óbuda, was bravely running away from the election defeat in 2022 for a monthly prize of millions. Mihály Varga also became the president of the HUF 3.5 billion Foundation for Civil Culture, which received the Klebelsberg Castle as a gift. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The fallen Fidesz mayor of the district, Zsolt Láng presides over the Millenáris Foundation, which has put his hands on 9.8 billion forints of public property, including Millenáris Park and the surrounding Ganz buildings. The third fallen Fidesz was the morally destroyed, anti-Semitic and self - fighting Orbánist Demeter Szilárd Demeter, who became the organizing organization of the Third. In the district, the Zichy Castle and the properties located in the southern part of the island of Shipyard, also damaging the Hungarian taxpayers by billions, including the Buda ones in particular. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] Mr. Secretary. Your boss is the Minister of National Property Management. When will Minister make a new card, which says that the Minister responsible for the theft of national assets is?
u2021-05-31-193	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to choose your certification markers next time in connection with Szilárd Demeter, because he was unworthy. [[Bence of Turdai: You shouldn't hitler!]] Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary.
u2021-05-31-194	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I told you once today, but for the second time, style is man. But after all, honourable Member, [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Don't hurt the Prime Minister!]] The aim of the university model change is to make higher education more competitive and to make Hungary a regional knowledge centre. The aim of the new operating model is to provide the state as a strategic partner with long-term financing guarantees to create the conditions for the state-of-the-art performance of these public tasks. With regard to the future purpose of the properties you have also named, the aim is not to take them away from the Buda people, but to return them to the people of Budapest. The real estate. The main goal of Millenáris is to enrich Hungarian cultural life with the operation and events of its institutions. Public foundations do not change strict and verifiable rules for the use of public funds, but they are a strong guarantee of artistic freedom. The aim of the financial contribution to the Educational, Cultural and Scientific Foundation for Civil Culture is to begin the renovation of the Váry-Szabó mansion under historic protection. This also serves to preserve cultural values for future generations through the purpose of the Foundation. The model change of the University of Óbuda was necessary to enable the institution to meet its own quality requirements and the expectations of the market and knowledge environment. Honourable Congressman, In 2010, the current government took over higher education in a catastrophic state: universities were swimming in debt, teachers were not paid, they wanted to pay tuition fees, and universities were forced into uneconomic PPP schemes. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Universities have never received as much support as they do now. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.10]]
u2021-05-31-195	Thank you very much, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, Balázs Simon Róbert, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister:. How does the government retain the jobs of the Győr people? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-31-196	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The excellent measure of the work of the people of Győr is that our achievements also create confidence among foreign investors. Our industry is traditionally at the forefront of our country and has outstanding developments today. Hungary's Government and the Audi recognise the strength of our contiguous community, so they have created an innovative environment that supports the crisis as well. The coronal virus epidemic has shown that in difficult times, the protection of people's lives and work must be raised to their shields, as we can only overcome our problems together. Audi Hungaria Zrt. Helping the world-class Hungarian vaccination program has enabled thousands of people to be vaccinated, and using government subsidies, it has not dismantled the workforce, but has started new investments. This provides the basis for the emergence of technologies in the motherland that can strengthen our leading position in the automotive industry in the new era of driving. The latest investment will increase the tool factory from HUF 3.8 billion, of which the government contribution is HUF 1.2 billion. The production hall of the Győr plant expands by 3800 square meters and the logistics hall by 2500 square metres. Tools are being developed for body production equipment in the centre and the production of body parts started in 2020. As a result, the quantity and quality of production are also increasing. Audi's Hungarian subsidiary is the most important employer in the region with 12,000 employees. They are also at the forefront of social responsibility and place great emphasis on electromobility. Their innovation capacity is based on local vocational training and higher education, which proves that they expect the knowledge and work of Hungarians in the long term. On this basis, I ask the honourable Secretary of State how the government preserves the jobs of the Győr people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-31-197	Thank you very much, Congressman Robert Simon. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Magyar Levente.
u2021-05-31-198	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The serious economic consequences of the coronal virus epidemic are already clear, and the measures taken by individual governments to restart their economies during the period under the virus will be crucial for further economic development. Looking at recent economic results, the Hungarian government's actions have proved successful. Last year we broke another investment record, we contributed to the investment of a total of 1435 companies, which represent a total investment value of HUF 1683 billion. The government provided HUF 474 billion in support to all of this, thereby contributing to the preservation of 265 thousand jobs. Meanwhile, last year, Hungary provided the 11th largest export performance in terms of GDP from two hundred countries around the world, and in this difficult year, our exports increased to over EUR 100 billion, despite the fact that world trade overall decreased by more than 9 percent. Given that our investment promotion programmes have been successful, the government has decided to launch another investment promotion programme. In this case, with a budget of HUF 30 billion, we can support investments by Hungarian companies and businesses that increase their productivity, improve their technology, modernise their operation and keep jobs. The role of Győr remains decisive in terms of investment. Thirty investments will be made in Győr in these days and weeks with the government's support for investment promotion. These thirty investments generate a total investment value of HUF 25 billion and protect 7700 jobs. The government supports investment with a HUF 9 billion grant. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-05-31-199	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Hungarian Levente. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, notary, would like to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology:. Why didn't the bicycle route announced by Attila Móring József, in 2017 linking Mesztegnyő with Balatonmáriafürdő was built? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, who was responsible and competent according to the subject, who authorised Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2021-05-31-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Before the elections in 2017, Attila Móring József announced that a bicycle road will be built from the Mesztegnyő railway to Lake Balaton. We've been informed for three years by a sign along the unrefurbished 68. So there's a sign, but there's no bike ride. And on top of that, they even closed the small railway from Mester. So by closing the small railway, not building the bike road, not renovating road 68, and taking the MotoGP investment to Hajdúnánánás instead of Sávoly, you are not developing, but neglecting the Somogy region. I've asked you several times why a bicycle trip through Mesztegnyő, Kelevíz, Marcalin, Kéthely, Balatonújlak, Balatonkeresztur and Balatonmáriafürdő was not built. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés informed me in 2019 that this work is expected to start next year. Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, said in 2020, that the development of the bike path was carried out in the frame of two separate projects, the support decisions were taken in this respect. Dear Secretary of State, Then why didn't the investment start? However, it is very important for the development of the region to include backup settlements in Lake Balaton tourism. In the absence of a bus service, those working late at Lake Balaton could at least ride home by bicycle. In 2021 too, I respectfully ask why the bike route, announced in 2017 by Attila Móring József, was not built, connecting Mesztegnyő with the Balatonmáriafürdő. Will they finally make their promises come true? Yes or no? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-201	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2021-05-31-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The development of the cycling path between the Mesztegnyő-Balatonmáriafürdő between the Mesztegnyő-Marcali and the Kéthely-Balatonmáriafürdő between the two projects. Both projects have a grant decision and a contract of support concluded. The Mestmő-Marcali phase received aid in May 2020 for the implementation of a 11.8 km cycle path. The phase between Kéthely-Balatonmariafürdő was also supported in May 2020. During the project between Kéthely-Balatonmáriafürdő, the bike friendly development takes place in a distance of 7.7 km, connected to the neighbouring settlements of the Balaton Bikekörút and to the south to the district centre of Marcali, and to the east to Somogyszentpál. After Mesztegnyő, Kelevíz and Marcali, the settlements involved in the investment between Mesztegnyő-Marcali are led by the existing bicycle route from Marcali to Kéthely, so the program is also a direct continuation of the Kéthely-Balatonmáriafürdő development programme. The investment is indirectly linked to the bike route to Balaton. Thus, the development creates a regional cycling route. For projects, preparation and technical planning are currently taking place. Cyclists are expected to take possession of the completed cycling path in 2022. To sum up, in your style, did Congressman Attila Móring's promise of a bicycle ride come true, yes or no? Yeah. Have you managed to discredit Attila Móring József from a political point of view about the bicycle route, yes or no? No. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-31-203	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP, representative of the LMP, has applied for a post-meeting speech:.Our city, Pécs. [[18.20]]
u2021-05-31-204	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, in my comments after the agenda, I am talking about the problems of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, and we obviously need to talk about the current situation, we need to assess the situation, and we need to talk more and more about what needs to be done and the opportunities that are undoubtedly there for our region. It is quite clear that what we need here is not an economic re-launch in our region, but a reconstruction of the economy. We can say that the entire South-Transdanubian region is a region that has been lagging behind in many respects, because, unfortunately, since the accession of the EU has been made, South-Transdanubia is among the 20 poorest regions of the Union. Baranya County is the last country in terms of per capita industrial performance, and Pécs has the weakest of the large rural regional centres. We can say that this is not the fault of the people living there, not the people living in Pécs and Baranya, nor the characteristics of the region; it is simply the faulty decisions, the wrong political representation of the past decades, or many government decisions that have seriously offended the city of Pécs, Baranya and the whole region. So we can tell you that in order to stop the break-down of the region and start a meaningful development, it is a basic condition that the change of government takes place. It is extremely important to be representatives of the region who represent not a party, not a prime minister, not the dictatorships of a government on the ground, but the interests of the people who live there here in Parliament. Unfortunately, at present, the members of the Parliament of Baranya Fideszes and KDNP do not see it that way, they act exactly the other way around. It is also clear that representatives of Pécs and the whole of Baranya County are able to establish appropriate cooperation between all actors whose work affects the development of Baranya County. We are thinking about local governments, we are thinking about Pécs, Komló, Kozármisleny, but we are also thinking about the county municipality. It is now apparent that the pro-government representatives consider municipalities with non-fidesz, non-government leadership as opponents, especially hostile to the largest city in Transdanubia, Pécs. This is totally unacceptable. But it is also unacceptable and, unfortunately, it is not possible for government representatives to reach the mayors of small settlements, since we know that the region is typically a small-walled crisis region, but there is also the largest city in Transdanubia, Pécs. So, in every settlement, we need to find harmony, and it is only possible to set this entire region on a course of development, if each settlement finds its own future, and Pécs, as the centre of the regions, finds it again, can re-establish its economic centres in all settlements, including the smallest settlements. But cooperation with the Chamber of Industry, the diocese, economic operators must also be well founded, of course, and one of the most important or one of the most important things for the economy, with the university. We have talked several times about the outrageous decisions of the past period about the dangers that this poses not only directly in terms of university functions, but also from an economic point of view, since the development of the county and Pécs, and even the development of the whole region, cannot be imagined without close cooperation with the university and the proper use of the knowledge base and innovation base of the university. So one of the most important and first measures will be to restore university autonomy, and thus, based on the existing research and cultural potential, it will be possible to develop a cooperation, a job-creating cooperation that will also enable young people who have left the city in the last decade or even in the last few years to make a living. There is enormous potential for economic development in the city, and we see opportunities that have not yet been exploited, just in the absence of such cooperation. For example, we can name Krakow or Cluj-Napoca, where, in addition to the university's urban functions, assigned services were an economic outburst. Here, too, we can say that Pécs would be an excellent opportunity for well-trained young people who speak the language, many thousands of such young people would be given the opportunity to go further in this way and become the capital of the Hungarian rural capital of such posted services. It would also have a huge economic potential on energy efficiency. It is clear here that decisions have to be taken that have been taken incorrectly in relation to the district thermal transfer contract before the 2010s. Building insulation and building energy development programmes could create thousands of jobs in Pécs, thus serving even the climate targets and environmental objectives to the full. There are, therefore, opportunities, and the possibility of action must be given to those Members who see and are able to implement these developments. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-31-205	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Bodó, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of railway transport in Hajdú-Bihar county. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-31-206	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the development of the infrastructure of Hajdú-Bihar county has come to its next milestone, as the 101st railway line with the Epispökladány-Biharkereszt is renewed, a previously single-track railway line with a length of 54 kilometres, which also carries out significant international traffic in addition to domestic passenger traffic. The purpose of the investment is to restore the track speed of at least 100 km/h on the entire length of the railway line and to provide a axle load of 22,5 tonnes. Within the framework of the investment, the electrification of the railway line is achieved, as I have said, with 50 hertz, 25 kilopolt, AC overhead contact line system and ancillary tasks related to the development. The connection of the line-up line to the power remote control centre will occur ebonyly, and the overhead line maintenance plant will be established in Berettyó's new village. The bottlenecks of the rail track are being removed and new electronic safety equipment is being built to increase safety. A total of five accessible high platforms are established at four stations. A modern electronic insurance system and a passenger information system will be built by integrating Bishop's Lady into the central traffic management centre and by interior construction works. The existing pipeline system will be dismantled and the space lighting will be renewed in the passenger and service areas at the stations to be rebuilt during the project. By electrifying the railway line, the environmental load is reduced, the railway superstructures are renewed, platforms, platform furniture, rain stops are installed, the pedestrian routes of the stations are renewed or accessible, the originally authorised 100 km/h track speed is restored and shorter driving times are achieved. The improvements will increase the quality of service and comfort, make it easier to take off and take off, more comfortable waiting, more modern passenger information system, more modern lighting and energy supply. The new electronic safety device obviously contributes to safety. This year, during the work under the track lock, the railway track will be rebuilt on the new line of the Bishop-Berettyó village, new tracks will be set up, and several stations will be partially rebuilt. New overhead contact lines are also being set up and the steel-structured bridge of the Eastern Main Channel is being partially renovated. For these works it is necessary to temporarily replace the old line cables for safety and telecommunications so that traffic can resume on the line at the end of the track lock with the construction of the new safety equipment and telecommunications. The construction of electricity-related equipment, as well as alternating heating, will also start next year. The construction will take place from nearly HUF 48 billion, and the final completion of the works will take place in 2023. The new railway line is obviously of great importance to the region, as it will not only make it easier for the county, but also for Hungarians living across the border. Of course, the government is not only focusing on this development. Its aim is to make rail transport as modern as possible, while in parallel with the central region the roads will be renewed in the countryside. In the next 10-15 years, the Hungarian rail network, the infrastructure modernisation, the rejuvenation of the vehicle stock and the related developments will be further developed by several thousand billion forints. I hope that this development will also contribute to making life easier for people living in the region and to the further recovery of economic life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-31-207	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Bodo. Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[18.30]]
u2021-05-31-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Over the past few months, there have been several pro-government speeches, and with the permission of our district representative, László Horváth, I am now giving him the title of setting the stone transport along Tarna. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[To László Horváth:]] Mr President, I am very pleased that you are here in this Chamber, I fully agree; I fully agree, so much that I will sign the petition. I think that there are investments and there are issues that should not be decided on, or in fact should be said to be decided on the basis of party policy, but on the basis that the district needs it or does not need it. You need this. It doesn't matter which representative of the party has submitted this proposal or is starting to work for it, I, as a local resident, am sure that I will do everything I can to ensure that this is achieved. At the same time, allow yourself and the Honourable Parliament to give some thought to this. It is right to ask where the district representative has been in the last ten years on this issue, since this issue was also a problem and even an increasing problem. As you have said, I have said many times that the overloaded cars, the 40-ton, are speeding with stone, because they are not just driving, but they are speeding cars that have completely ruined the roads, the roadside houses are cracking, road sidewalks are wrecked, roadways are dangerous, road traffic is life-threatening in many places, even by car; let us not talk about the problems they pose by bicycle or by foot. But why do I say where the district's representative has been in the past? I wasn't even a mayor, so about seven or eight years ago, I wrote a letter to the president of the county assembly about this problem. I wrote a letter to the government commissioner in Heves County, to you about the fact that these cars, these stone vehicles, are completely destroying the 13 kilometers between 2411, Recsk and Mátraballa, by the way, connecting the 23rd and 24th main roads, and I said that they would destroy it, and now I have to say that they have destroyed it, completely destroyed it, and have not been appreciated for an answer. Seven or eight years have passed, and no answer has been given, even though it could have been prevented that, by the way, some roads still contain traces of asphalt, so badly damaged. But back to the petition. Once again, I will sign it, and I agree that this must be done. However, it also makes me think that, as a pro-government Member, you might say, sitting in the benches of Parliament since the change of regime, you are currently turning to people with a petition, not directly to the government. Well, if there were any proper influence, I think that this should be accomplished. If you were there every day, you wouldn't be turning to a petition and perhaps throwing people into false illusions, but going straight to the government. If you say that this is necessary, and you mentioned this in your speech, under pressure, because there is a need for resources, then allow me to mention that I submitted in the budget amendment last week that funding for the transport of stone along Tarna is included and committed to the central budget. This is a guarantee and a guarantee that this will actually happen. There is no need to clink, no need to doorknob, no; it is in the central budget, and from now on it will certainly be realized that you have not joined it, my fellow Member. But then one more short thought. The section between the Recsk and the Chapel is of sufficient quality for rail, so this can be achieved there. And the section between Crack and Kisterny? After all, this is exactly what the Recsk and Mátraballa routes I mentioned fall into, until the end of Highway 21 last year and the end of the previous year, that is exactly what tens of thousands of years of stone cars have completely destroyed the road and the lives of the people living there. I am very sorry, by the way, that you did not join my amending budget for this trip. Next week, I will be asking the government about the way the government plans, if so, when they no longer support my budget amendments. And by the way, as a closing point, let me say that if you were in the district and really, you couldn't see this from Budapest, but even Eger wouldn't be able to see your home, and you wouldn't rarely go there. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But every day, like me, he would have dealt with it a long time ago. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-31-209	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-the-meet speech:. How long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-31-210	Mr President, Dear House, I have prepared myself to collect the proposals or topics for amending the budget that either the Government of Hungary does not support or have been completely left out of its planning. But I am also patiently listening to what my fellow Members have to say, and I am quite amazed at the fact that a pro-government fellow Member has stood up, who has practically told a victory report on the performance of the multi-company Audi in Hungary, and about the blessings that this company brings Hungary, how good it is to organise its own vaccination program, have investments, and Hungary's Government is making these investments with non-refundable grants and generously. I would like to remind you that we do not have a problem with multi-company companies, we do not have a problem with banks, because we see that in a world perhaps even too globalised, all of this is necessary in a healthy national economy if they operate on the basis of the principle of public burdens. In Hungary, however, we see that the government has again supported a company with a one-billion-dollar non-refundable dot in respect of Audi, which has untaxed dividends of a thousand-billion-dollar magnitude and profits from Hungary in the last decade. Thus, the perverse redistribution policy, which typically provides only preferential loans to Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, is quite amazing, also under conditions where the bank decides to grant grants to the various mega- and multinationals. Then, in his reply, a Fidesz Secretary of State gave me some reason to believe that they had spent HUF 474 billion on this purpose, from which they supported an iks business. The vast majority of these are clearly multi-company companies which, although undoubtedly providing jobs in Hungary, do not participate in public burdens. Let's look at the example of Mercedes, where he also provided a grant of tens of billions of dollars, all in all, the Government of Hungary, and yet it comes out that in the last measured period, this company only paid 5.8 percent of its profits in the form of taxes in Hungary, which is a fraction of the key to corporate tax. So what we see is that the government reduced the corporate tax rate, which was 1 percent discount for Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but provided a very large discount of 8-9 per cent for multi-company companies. And even after this European comparison, the key to tax haven status is not paid by the companies involved; but if we call it that even from the small tax paid by them, it is from the small tax. We would deduct the volume of non-refundable grants, we would get that these companies are basically hardly putting anything in the joint venture in Hungary. And I also have the research that compared the same 12 leading multinational companies in Hungary and the Czech Republic, and while it was found that in other countries, on average, they are carrying a tax burden of over 10 percent, there are some, where more, in Hungary, these leading companies take a tax of less than 1 percent in total, including all discounts in certain sectors; and then we can deduct the benefits from this, everything else. So what we see is that the successive Orbán governments outbid themselves in the discounts they have given, while my fellow Member Nunkovics is saying the right thing today, while the Prime Minister is trying to lure the working capital here abroad by painting the labour code sufficiently flexible in Hungary and ensuring foreign partners that Hungarian wages are very, very low. And it is not tense for the Government of Hungary to say, in its strategic agreements, not to approximate to the Western European average, no, fellow Members: if we move towards the Czech average, the Polish average, so if we move towards a strong European average, it would mean a substantial shift in Hungary. On the other hand, there is a programme of men 40, submitted by my fellow Members Csaba Gyüre and Lajos Rig, which could bring some safety and comfort towards the end of the lives of these eviscerated workers in the second stage of their lives, as they are expected to spend their life in health in retirement; this was not supported by the members of the pro-government majority. In terms of their pension increase, they are campaigning with a humiliating pension increase of HUF 888 per month, in these weeks, which means a pension increase of HUF 30 per day among some stakeholders. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] On the other hand, foreigners, the working capital, are heavily supported. This is the duality we must reject. Thank you for your attention and patience, Mr President. [[18.40]]
u2021-05-31-211	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Member László Horváth, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "3" on the way out of the way. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-31-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleague, Mr Hondas, obviously knows that I cannot now answer the questions raised in his previous speech on the agenda, because I had to mark the subject in which I spoke after the agenda. But I would like to reassure my fellow Member that we will now begin a new genre, the genre of the question-and-answer after the agenda, so he can be sure that the next time he will get a complete answer to his questions in my speech. The case I've just asked for isn't the first time-- it's the history of the Pearly bypass. Last time I got to the point of telling the story, the Gyurcsány government took the national road development program in 2017 on the path to Gyurcsány. At the same time as the decision, the government provided 100 million HUF for the planning and preparation work. It was necessary to plan and prepare, since the old plans expired, over the years technical and environmental rules changed, new planning, new static tests, new environmental impact assessment, new authorisation and new negotiations were needed. In addition, the state of the completed, unfinished, unfinished road has fallen tragically to this point, and the benches of the already bad, life-threatening, narrow-lined road, which has been successful in narrowness, have been ruined and run-down, because they have not been maintained by anyone, although the road has been in the management of Gyöngyös city on paper all along. Since the western bypass road became part of the national road network, the state will have to take over the management of the road from the municipality, so it was obvious that the exchange was then made, which is about the fact that in return, the city of Gyöngyös takes over the management of public roads, otherwise central, frequented downtown roads. With this exchange, the city of Gyöngyös made a good store, if you can say so, because the state roads will otherwise be returned to a good replacement after full renovation. In 2019 we formulated and proposed to think of a bold goal, a goal that is a real solution, an escape route that avoids Gyöngyös not only from the west, but also from the north, and frees the city from traffic to and from Mátra. This traffic has increased considerably, very significant, as in recent years the number of visitors to Mátra has, in fact, doubled, which naturally resulted in an increase in the load on the roads leading through Gyöngyös, which are in Mátra, in particular road 24 and some downtown roads. The government sustained this suggestion and provided a source for the planning of the northern bypass. Thus, this work is in progress with NIF Zrt. in his care, and soon, within weeks, there will be a local social consultation in which the people of Gyöngyös can take a position on which of the technically possible lines they would most like to see. It is possible to advance that two aspects will surely be common ground: the first is the Gyöngyös Zoo case, and the second is the setting of the wolf's cellar line into the tourist circulation. With a calm heart and joy, we can say that 2021 and the following years will be the years of road construction in and around Gyöngyös. The entire section of 24 in Gyöngyös is renewed, as part of the construction of the western bypass road, the complete renovation of the downtown roads will take place, and the complete construction of the western bypass road will also be followed by the construction of the northern bypass road. And in the meantime, several sections of road 2406 will be refurbished. Thus, the story of the abandoned road that has not been missed ends, and the promise of the left will be just a bad memory. [[Anita Kőrösi Potocsány: Eleven years!]] And that's okay. It doesn't have to be forgotten, not even for you. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Because it's a instructive story about the left, which would be good to avoid in the future in Gyöngyös. Thank you.
u2021-05-31-213	Thank you very much, Congressman László Horváth. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, applied to Lajos Kósa: only those who have a good memory should lie. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-31-214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr President, I'm sorry Lajos Kosa isn't here. You, Mr. President, probably remember, because you ordered me to order. On 27 May 2021, in the parliamentary debate with Lajos Kósa, the so-called maternity cooperatives bill, we had a minor disagreement, where the Vice-President of Fidesz was outraged by the fact that he had never traveled to Dubai or the United Arab Emirates on the money of the municipality of Debrecen. Well, since, then, neither the house rules nor the topic of the proposal nor the time made it possible that, as politicians in Debrecen, Lajos Kósa and I sat in the same meeting in Debrecen for more than ten years, we would open up all the branches and details of the truth, so I would take this opportunity, even if Lajos Kósa was not here to remind Congressman Kósa, as one of the leaders of the dictatorship, he simply does not have the right to be offended by a request for account similar to that presented at the plenary session. In particular, he should remember the debate that he and I had in 2010 before the general assembly in Debrecen; he, as mayor, then communications councillor of the municipality of Debrecen, now State Secretary, Zoltán Kovács and, of course, many members of the opposition in Debrecen. And it would certainly not be worth being outraged, for he should know that the archive material of the old assembly in Debrecen is guarded by the Internet. Thus, in January 2010, the submission signed by Lajos Kósa and negotiated by the General Assembly in Debrecen can be found in this archive, which bears the title and here I would like to quote precisely the fact that the information on the international relations of the municipality of Debrecen County in 2009 is available. In that, the mayor Lajos Kósa is lying to today's Member of Parliament Lajos Kósa, it is his own proposal, and in June 2009, according to the proposal, I am going to say it alone once again, and the body responsible for cost travels to Dubai alone, as it turns out from the presentation, which is, of course, the municipality of Debrecen. According to the report, the purpose of the journey was to build economic relations between Dubai and Debrecen; and the mayor, in principle and here, would open a parentheses: I say, in principle, he also gave a presentation on the city's economic development and strategic concept, presented the development areas and objectives. I must add that if all of this had happened or happened, it would have done the right thing, in particular with regard to the airport and its related economic activities, to the possibility of cooperation. So, despite all the indignation and yelling of Lajos Kósa, and his point of order, my statement at the time was true, that Lajos Kósa was simply there and then not telling the truth, because he was in the United Arab Emirates on the money of the municipality of Debrecen, in Dubai. [[18.50]] In addition, he did so by not being able to really explain it in his 2010 report at the time, and in the debate between us at the time, it was not clear what presentation he had taken out of the city and presented it to and to whom, and since, as far as I know, this must be a foreign language knowledge, whether it is Arabic or English, besides the fact that he could ask for a taxi and perhaps thank him for the coffee with which he could present any official lectures, this is particularly doubtful. It is clear from the proposal that he alone traveled to Dubai without any interpreters, other helpers, or escorts. Since then, we know that not only Dubai, but only one Arab investor has not come to Debrecen, and the airport has certainly not been bought, since this airport is then in the hands of a Debrecen investor and is now in the hands of the state. But the fact remains. Lajos Kósa, Vice President of Fidesz, has been to Dubai despite all his outrages, and has been to the taxpayers' money in Debrecen in Dubai, and we really don't know what he was doing. What we do know is that Lajos Kósa lied for many times, and as he's natural and normal, he's gone down. I would also like to tell Lajos Kósa that only those who have good memories should lie, and apparently they are not good for him. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-31-215	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. Member Anett Bősz, representative of DK, also spoke after the agenda:. Fidesz and KDNP said no to Érd, Törökbálint, Diósd and Tárnok. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-31-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have passed the first stage of the detailed debate on the 2022 budget. As I have already explained in some detail, I have tabled a proposal for a amending budget, which affected Érdét, Törökbálint, Diósd and Tárnok. I predict that the Fidesz and KDNP groups have voted off these amendments without debate, as have all opposition amendments. First of all, this speech is addressed to my fellow Member, András Aradszki, who I welcome back to our healthy fellow countrymen, and I am very pleased that he has returned to the benches of this House. I wish you continued good health, and I am very happy to do so here. The problem with Mr Aradski, however, is that, after his recovery, he will continue his work where he left off. I would not like to classify your hateful and, in many cases, highly information-distorting communication here, but we know very well the Member's direct and extremely well-paid colleagues, who excel in these. You can see that in the congressman's work. But back to my job as a representative. This amending proposal was followed, above all, to compensate the municipality of Érd County for its resources lost in the context of epidemiological measures. It is important to know that the city was supported by the central budget each year by HUF 700 million in terms of its operating budget until 2019. This happened as long as András T. Mészáros, mayor from the benches of Fidesz, led the city, but after the victory of the opposition in October 2019 it ceased, so our city lost 700 million HUF in 2019 and 2020. So Érd turned to the third wave of the epidemic with a deficit of 1.4 billion forints. But if that wasn't enough, an additional HUF 600 million vehicle tax withdrawal would have cost the city during these two years. Also, due to the changes in the rules of local industrialisation tax revenues, our city has fallen from another HUF 1.3 billion, so the deficit was more than HUF 3.2 billion, besides the city's own fault. Why did I start this speech with my fellow Member, Mr Andras Aradski? My pro-government colleague is proud to announce that he has earned 777 million forints for the city over the last few months, but this is only a quarter of the deficit, my honourable fellow Member. It means, therefore, that, despite my fellow Member's success propaganda, the city, to which we are both residents, has fallen from HUF 2.4 billion in the last two years, simply because the individual representative of the district does not represent the Medal here in Parliament, but, on the other hand, represents the government in Érden. But I'll keep going. Half the village of Diósd is still on a dirt road, the modernisation of the road network would be very important. The large-scale moving population, the otherwise very young population, are all thirsty that they will have to walk the Balaton road without a sidewalk at last, by the way, on one of the busiest streets in Dionysdi. The construction plan for the sidewalk has already been completed, but the city has not been able to start implementing it. This is also the case that renovation plans have already been made for the building of the city hall. This is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because the combined connection of computers to the city hall does in many cases result in the complete power grid of the city hall being shut down. If you believe, fellow Members, that civil servants can work in this sense in danger, well, I say you are very wrong. It is not uncommon, despite the speed limit of 60 km/h, on the road starting at the intersection of Sóskút and Szőskút, that trucks travel at speeds of between 80 and 90 km/h along with the tarnish citizens who are returning home without the bicycle road as well as the sidewalk on this road. Finally, I would like to close with Törökbálint, where the lack of a noise barrier will suffer, as well as many other citizens of the 1st constituency of the county of Pest, but the most pressing problem at Törökbálint is this, my fellow Members. At the time when I spoke in the budgetary debate, and before these amendments were sealed and put on Parliament's network, I said that this whole amending proposal could fit in the Nyíregyháza stadium. Ladies and gentlemen, my experience is that the pro-government MEPs' proposal goes through with ease. I would like to ask my fellow Member, András Aradszki, to try to present this amendment in the next round. Tomorrow afternoon, the deadline is 16.30. Thank you for your patience.
u2021-05-31-217	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. At the same time, MEP László Hajdu, a representative of DK, asked to speak after the agenda, who owns it? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-31-218	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Yes, who owns it, I gave this title to my post- Agenda comment because we were struck by lightning, local governments and people living in settlements by the news that, with the suggestion of individual representatives of MEP László Böröcz, he could achieve that the tenements owned by the municipality would be taken away from the municipalities, some a thousand billion-dollar property. The government doesn't need a proposal, the government doesn't need a consultation, but simply with a motion from its representatives, this body of property is being taken away from the municipalities. In addition to the great outrage, there were, of course, business manifestations. My inn class was just the day after that. As soon as I heard from radio, TV, news, the interest of the first law firm arrived, the interest of a real estate agent arrived, and six tenants who had not been able to pay their rent or their rent before, suddenly wanted to become a buyer, and urged when they could, because he was already in a meeting with a real estate agency that had contacted him. So this list is also known to others. Then, from what I hear, even a bank whose agent gladly offered to help secure the loan. So we launched an avalanche without agreement on other people's assets, on municipal property, so it's not the division of state property, it's the property of the municipalities according to the civil code. On this basis, our fellow Member Böröcz could have also tabled a motion to take the property of the neighbour, which can be bought at a discount of 15% and 30% on his motion, not at market prices, of course. I think that we should talk about this after the agenda, because some people took it very seriously. [[19.00]] He believed and believed that they were coming now, that they would now benefit from the division of wealth, after it was said that they had waited 30 years to finally acquire their property, so now their lease becomes their property. I must add that Balázs Barkóczi, a candidate for Congress, has held a press conference on this matter, but a spokesman for DK. I looked through the press conference, and I had to answer fantastic questions about the candidate, the spokesperson, in which I could see that, yes, the same thing that came back to me in the host hour, also interested the press in how it was going to be, how the left-wing authorities would relate to it, and most importantly, they were interested in the link between opposition success in the local elections on 13 October 2019 and the presentation of this law. I think there must be something, even though no mayor, including the pro-government mayors, was questioned, and they themselves protested. I think that perhaps if this bill is amended, which our fellow Member Böröcz has tabled, it will be because of the expression of the pro-government mayors and their strong voice. This is the benefit of NER because I feel that the upcoming election, 2022, is very close, there is not a year or so of such a sparkle, because 116 700, according to statistics, there are at least so many municipal tenements, so many people would be able to get property, so that they might want to buy votes with it. I must add that, if Vice-President remembers, after the change of regime, more than 800,000 apartments in the local government were thus given to owners at a reduced price, in the hope that this will bring positive benefits to the MDF, the Little Farmers' Party. Well, the end result is known, so no. I think that this is precisely why, because a Member dares to do such an einstand, and the government supports this, next year in the April elections the voters will judge this in the booths. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-31-219	Thank you very much, Congressman László Hajdu. Member Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-scheduled speech: the voice of the countryside! You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-31-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You know, sometimes I get the feeling that you're watching another broadcast when the Hungarian reality comes up against you. Because, in the government propaganda and here, in the House walls, there is a rumor that everything is all right, and that the municipal bledout, when we opposition representatives say that there is a problem in the municipalities, is only an opposition clowning. This is what we get from you, and if you could see what's going on in the settlements, and yes, you would not only talk to the mayors, but also to the citizens, the people who live there, you would very much know what's going on with the municipalities, what's going on in the settlements, and how the Hungarian people really live. When Jenő Schmidt, president of the National Association of Municipal Local Governments, and also the pro-government mayor of Tab, declares that the municipal property is a national property, and that he can't assist it either, then there are very serious problems. Because, apparently, nothing else is important to you but to secure the power you've been sitting here in Parliament for 11 years, and you seem to be terrified. And they're trying to hide the Hungarian reality through propaganda. But people have their eyes open. This, I think, is not enough to emphasise here in Parliament, because apparently people see that your government propaganda and other activities do not provide any help to Hungarian people. When we say that, they accuse us that we're just talking here, and we're not doing anything. Yes, we did. We tabled 1184 amendments to the 2022 central budget, and you did not support one piece at the Committee on Budgets or in the committees in which my fellow opposition Members tabled these amendments. However, this would have been an opportunity, there would have been an investment and development that did not serve your interests, not the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz, but the interests of Hungarian people, Hungarian families, Hungarian workers and Hungarian economic operators. But these interests are not important to you. This can be seen from the fact that there has indeed been no support for a single amendment to the budget. And speaking of local governments. Every year we listen to how important the local government is to you, and how much money is being pumped to the municipalities through the Hungarian village programme and the programme "Modern Cities" programme. The only thing you forget to mention here is how much money and resources have been taken from the Hungarian municipalities! That the municipalities are in trouble, even though you say that the resources are only increasing in the municipalities. Indeed, part of the development has been financed thanks to the European Union. But you are drawing these funds away from the municipalities through the solidarity contribution, and you cannot provide self-strengthening. Then, of course, you expect the mayors and councils to bow down and beg to be able to pay for your self-esteem, or perhaps replace or develop an old, backward investment. After all, you feel that the Hungarian people are now impatient when it comes to the fact that the municipality cannot make a desired investment that has been going on for, say, long years. So when we talk about the fact that there is a problem in the municipalities, I refer to this. That there is no self-esteem to replace these calls. And the fact that this addiction relationship that you have established with the municipalities and mayors will be even bigger until April 2022 is already clear, but not only we can see it, the Hungarian people can see it. So in the coming months, it would be good to have a clear view of the world and to represent all Hungarian people on the basis of Hungarian reality, because the Hungarian people put you here in Parliament, just like they did us opposition representatives. And our job is to raise these problems here in the Hungarian Parliament and find solutions together for the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-31-221	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, asked for a speech on which we spoke little during the viral situation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-31-222	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I submitted this post-meeting speech last week, and this weekend confirmed to me the fact that we really need to talk about it. If we look at the current data, 5 million 146 thousand people have received the first vaccination against Covid in Hungary today. More than three million of these have already passed the second vaccination. However, there is a layer in Hungary that is not a small number, about 2.5 to 3 million of our countrymen who, for some reason, do not wish to request this vaccine, because the vaccination itself is voluntary. However, the government has made provisions that, in my opinion, are completely discriminatory to them. It is discriminative that they cannot live a social life, they cannot go to a restaurant, they cannot take their children to a zoo, they cannot relax with their children, since they ask for a protection certificate for each entry. If we look around, we cannot find such a strict measure anywhere in the neighbouring countries, this is unprecedented here in Hungary, and I even think that throughout the Union. If you look at it and you want to set a good example, there is a solution, because there is a possibility for them too, because once again, the vaccination itself is voluntary, so it is not mandatory. This vaccine is as voluntary as, say, the tick vaccination, which carries a very dangerous virus and protects against a virus infection; it is as voluntary as, say, vaccination against rotavirus in childhood, which is optional, but it protects against a dangerous disease; or it is as voluntary as, say, against meningococcal bacteria, which can cause fatal, pusned meningitis, and many people in Hungary die from it. [[19.10]] But let us consider examples of how other countries have dealt with this situation democratically. There it is, not to go far, Austria, where the number of vaccinees does not reach this number, but there is a similar rate of population, there for people who have not applied for vaccination or have not yet been vaccinated, but have registered, they have given an opportunity. This option is that you had to have an antigen or PCR test not older than 48 hours, and this test can be used within 72 hours, and it is valid, and you can also visit the events, take the family to a movie, a thermal bath or, say, a restaurant. Taking advantage of this and eliminating discrimination to the full, I will present a proposal for a resolution to this House to help and not discriminate with these fellow citizens, taking the example of Austria into account. Community life, especially in the summer, is due to everyone, and if we want the Hungarian economy to be strengthened to spend their wages at home, then this opportunity is indeed necessary, I think. There is a good example, see Austria. But if you look at the demand page, so the service page, this means a huge loss of wealth for restaurants and services, a huge loss of revenue, because these people will not be able to visit these events and places. But if we want to set a good example, then we can start in Parliament, because here in the restaurant, let alone not ask for a protection card, they don't even measure fever. So if we want to lead by example, we should do the same. Once again, if this provision, this regulation, is adopted by this House, then there will be no discrimination, and everyone will have the same rights here in Hungary as before the virus. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-223	Thank you very much, Congressman Rig. Mr János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, also spoke after the agenda, with the title of the change of era. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-31-224	Thank you very much for the floor. Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén is not joking. This was the first thought that occurred to me when I read the news published in the Hungarian press a few days ago, according to which the Hungarian government gives another 6 billion good Hungarian forints to organize the World Hunting Exhibition for which it has already planned approximately 65 billion forints. Then the next thought that came to my mind, right after that, is that Mr. Headhunter will probably be able to clean the shoes left on the threshold of Carmelita with some quite astonishing diligence and elegance, if at such a critical and difficult time as this one, he managed to plow the boss out 6 billion forints on his gentlemanly whim. And the third thought that came to my mind was here I was delighted when I pictured myself in that uplifting and great moment, which will be one of the most beautiful days of the history of modern-day Hungarian democracy, when in 2022 the Stüszi hunter and his fellow Christian Democrats went where they were, at least away from the head of the country, out to the cell, out to the bleachers, and out to his favorite sacristy. But what are these six billion forints enough for? What's in Peaceful County enough for? I am aware of it and I suspect that these four Fidesz MPs, who obtained a mandate from the county of Békés in 2018, will sweep off the 36 budget amendments that we put in the next year's budget together with the citizens of the county of Békés, but for the sake of order, I will tell you what could be spent on from this 6 billion forints. For example, out of this 6 billion forints, a county wage compensation fund could be set up, with which we could help and dampen the pay gap on the net 150,000 forints monthly pay gap that separates Békés county from the rest of the country. But this HUF 6 billion would also be enough to give the citizens of Békés County a decent living instead of a minimum wage, so that those who live on wages and salaries in Békés County, who are forced to support their families from one of the lowest minimum wages in all Europe, can finally make a decent living on their salaries. But it would be enough to give those social workers serving in Békés County a one-time payment of HUF 500,000, to help the people working in hospitality, or to shake the health care system into a little pants, which has actually gone huge in Békés County in the last year, and thanks to the people who held this system on their shoulders. Of the 70 billion forints that the current government coalition is throwing away for this World Hunting Exhibition and in which the money of the Peaceful County people is included, their tax forints are in it, there is their VAT, there is their excise duty, there is their weight tax, of these 70 billion forints there are many, many, many tens of kilometers of muddy streets that could be blown off in the next period. Many, many kilometers of inferior roads could be made safe and completely pothole-free. In smaller and larger Békés county settlements it would be possible to upgrade street lighting free of Tiborcz. It could buy railway wagons so that on Fridays and Sundays at Békéscsaba-Budapest you would not have to travel on overheated or freezing herring routes for those Hungarian taxpayers who have switched tickets to a service, and I think that you would be entitled to a service of European quality for this ticket. I ask the four Fidesz MPs to step out of their own shadow, not to sweep these 36 budget amendments off the table, nor to ignore the citizens of the Peaceful County who, unlike them, have not yet bowed their heads before this system. Let the four of them take over, and finally, at least once in this term, they serve the political interests of Viktor Orbán, not their own county. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. At the same time, MEP Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, notary, has applied for an after-the-date speech. What does the municipality mean? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-05-31-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I recently saw a cartoon in my favorite civil weekly, which inspired me to speak. The picture represented a fidesz leader who asked a mayor a question. Do you know what the municipality means? He asked. And the mayor said, "You're in control." Ladies and Gentlemen, The sad fact is that this is not a pun, but after eleven years of two-thirds Fidesz government, the great Hungarian reality. Thirty-one years after the change of regime, the majority of our settlements are not controlled by the elected representatives of the local government, but by the people of the system. Because they're the ones who tell us what the settlement can apply for. They tell you how much you can apply for, and they usually tell you which company to sign with. [[19.20]] The scope of the mayor's exercise now only covers the transfer of the title of decorator and the exercise of the employer's powers over public workers. Is this, then, the local government in the spirit of Christian freedom proclaimed by Fidesz? Subsidiarity is the essence of local government, which means that if a task can be solved by a person or community on the ground of concrete involvement at local level, it must not be decided at a higher level, i.e. by the person to whom it relates. This is also the fundamental principle of the European Union, by the way. And then let's see what the Fidesz government has done to the municipalities in the last 11 years: they took the fire department, took the schools, took the hospital in parentheses, and the Calvary of the Marcal hospital began at that time, and then they took funds during an epidemic. When money was needed for effective protection, and everyone expected help from the local authorities, the Fidesz government took away both the business tax and the motor vehicle tax, while the local government lost significant revenue because of its measures to limit tourism hospitality. What if it's not looting our settlements? And now they're spreading that if they don't choose the crates of Fidesz, there won't be any money and there won't be any progress? And the mayors are being blackmailed, and they're obligated to campaign openly, to agitate alongside the Fidesz. That's what they did last time in Borsod, and no doubt they'll do before the next election. Even the independent mayors will be expected to ask the voters to put their hands on the Fidesz. Well, I'd like to tell all the people in Somogy not to believe them, because money will come if the fidesz little balls can't eat it anymore. So the decision is in the hands of the people, and I believe that they will make the right decision, because this system is ripe for failure. And then the local government will once again be an independent administrative body of the state, which can be handled not according to the convenience of the fidesz little balls, but on its own. That's what we're going to do after 2022. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-31-227	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Steinmetz, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a nice evening.
