u2021-11-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 10th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, Once again, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that two of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Ervin Herman István, former politician of Fidesz, obtained his mandate in the 6th constituency of Heves County at the 2010 parliamentary elections, and he was the party's parliamentary representative for a period of time. During his term of office, he was a member of the Economic and IT Committee and of the Court of Auditors' and Budget Committee. His narrower Patria was known as an active political and public figure until his retirement. From 1990-1994 he served as a representative of the Eger General Assembly and then as a member of the Heves County Assembly from 98 to 2010. His work was rewarded with many recognitions, and in 2018 he received the Knight's Cross of the Order of Merit of Hungary. He died in the 74th year of his life. János Dénes, one of the founding members of the Hungarian Democratic Forum, obtained his mandate as candidate for the MDF in the 26th constituency of Budapest at the first free parliamentary elections after the change of regime. Later, leaving the faction, for some time he was politicalally independent, and from 1993 he spent the last year of the cycle in the MIÉP faction. He was a member of the Economic Committee during his term of office. János Dénes was awarded a commemorative medal in 1956 in recognition of his role during the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence and his action in the subsequent period. He died in the 92nd year of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room salute the memory of the deceased with a silent standing.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will begin a series of speeches before the agenda. First, I give the floor to Szabó Timea, Head of the Group.
u2021-11-08-1	Ladies and gentlemen, Several interesting things happened this week, about which Viktor Orbán, Fidesz and the footage serving them try to distract attention with all their nerves. Let's take the case first of László Fat's chief of staff. László Fatvér is one of the biggest advocates of helping Hungarians across the border in Fidesz. What happens in your own cabinet compared to that? László Kövér's chief of staff, László Veress, turned out to be living in a luxury villa in Buda that was bought by a foundation for young people across the border for HUF 240 million. This organization, the Hungarian Talent Foundation, received HUF 320 million from abroad, from which it even obtained the purchase of an A6 Audi. The Foundation is chaired by Kálmán Visontai, a staff member of László Kövér's chief of staff in Parliament. For the foundation, the hundred million-dollar grant comes from a Taiwanese businessman, who came with the help of Frank Liu, who is a good friend of László Kövér. This Liu is the same businessman who used to save the papal meat factory from bankruptcy. Interestingly, László Fat is also from Pope. The villains would certainly suggest that László Kövér gave Hungarian citizenship to Liu and put him on the Hungarian Golden Cross to repay this step. In any case, my fellow Members, this is all an orbital government fraud! László Kövér and his circle, who are the loudest in supporting Transylvanian Hungarians, specifically stole money for young people across the border and bought luxury villas, luxury cars and Visegrád land. Transparency International has already filed a complaint about fraud and other criminal offences, and the Dialogue calls for an investigation into the Office of the NAV Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing. 'Cause what's going on here, right, in this case? Btk. 373, fraud. Base: three years in prison, five years in a qualified case. Btk. 403, a violation of the accounting system. Basic: three years in prison, eight years in a qualified case. Btk. 399, money laundering. Based on five-year prison. Btk. 291, acceptance of bribery. Base: three years, classified case up to eight years in prison. Btk. 294, acceptance of official bribery; up to five years in prison. These are tough things from a Speaker and a circle of Speakers who have so far had a bloody mouth in pursuit of civilians who have received support from abroad, the demonisation of which has even been legit in order to expose civilians they consider to be Soros organisations. The law that has been passed since then by the Court of Justice of the Union is also interesting because this foundation of László Kövér has somehow forgotten to admit the 100 million funding received from abroad. Now, what does a sinner who doesn't comply with the Fidesz laws deserve? [[13.10]] This question could also be asked to Lajos Kósa, who has also done a great job this week after a tedious police committee meeting that we understand, he blabbed out what Judit Varga, Viktor Orbán and the whole government, in a well-coordinated manner, have denied that the government did buy Pegasus spy software and have illegally used it to listen to opposition politicians. The interesting thing here is not Lajos Kósa, who violates state secrets, but that the government has admitted to observing opposition politicians using secret service tools. Viktor Orbán once said that we should not listen to what he says, but what he does. Well, my dear Viktor Orbán, Judit Varga, Laszlo Fat! That's exactly what we do: we watch what they do, and we know what they do. But this is very hot pie, ladies and gentlemen. You know, and we know that you know that your power is about to end, and that's what you're terrified of, and in your fear of that, you're not afraid of any means, and you're going on the darkest path of puppy right now, where you specifically have the secret service watching the opposition, where they're being character-killed, where they're going to come up with all kinds of lies about everyone who wants to put an end to this corrupt power. But beware, because there are more people in this country who want to change, people who want to change the government. Some of us may be tried, some of us may succeed, but the people who want to change cannot be observed, they cannot be killed, they cannot be intimidated. This angry people are going to drive you out of power, and we're going to clean up all the garbage you're leaving, and we're going to take a decent, honest country. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] create after themselves for the sake of the people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And you will sell the Town Hall next to him]] Thank you.
u2021-11-08-2	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, what you call trash is a country-building period, it was the government that had to clean up the ruins. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Allow me, Congresswoman, to answer. We have listened with patience to your lies, so give respect to our voters as well, and to all voters in general, that if you raise a question, you will hear the answer. Thank you very much in advance. So this was the government that had to clean up the ruins after the amok run on the left. It took many years for the strategic industries to reconfirm Hungarian property until we reconfirmed the economy in order to boost wage increases. Just to say one number, we will increase the minimum wage by three times, nearly three times the minimum wage; you have been able to raise 73 500 forints. [[Szabó Timea: What?]] Now, as far as your specific points are concerned, you may have said that you are terrified of the government side. Well, we've been hearing the same thing from you for months, that you're terrified of the government side of Christmas Gergely. Where's Christmas Gregory? He's been hiding ever since, so much so that the Bence of Tordai behind you had to protect him when he got a journalistic question. While telling us that they would answer any journalistic question, Bence of Tordai had to answer the journalistic question. So much for who's scared. As regards the Pegasus case, the Minister of Interior has already provided information on the matter at the meeting of the National Security Committee, he also made it clear that the Hungarian services have not carried out illegal data collection since 2010. [[Szabó Timea: That's not true!]] Before 2010, services were used for political purposes, Russian secret servants were allowed to the Hungarian secret services, and one of the secret service leaders sat down to negotiate with a mobster in order to [[Szabó Timea: Watch out!]] To produce materials for the then right-wing opposition leaders. That's when the services were used for political purposes. As to the issue of the foundation in question, you mentioned government fraud, something like that. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this foundation operates from private donations and does not manage or manage any kind of public money. [[Szabó Timea: Foundation funded from abroad.]] So the reference to government alone is a lie. Therefore, the government has no jurisdiction in this matter. To my knowledge, any expenditure and revenue of the Foundation can be traced in its annual accounts, which is publicly available. If you would like to, honourable Member, if you have time to do something between yelling and protecting public wealth, then convince your party president not to sell City Hall. [[Szabó Timea: Oh, no! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] What we cannot decide from here is that there is something that Gergely Christmas does not know, or is very well aware of, and tries to mislead the public, but it really doesn't matter, because if you consider the suggestion to be frivolous, then look at how your left-wing bosses have played out a significant part of the Hungarian public wealth, either for themselves or for their foreign supporters. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] That is why, honourable Member, when it comes to the protection of national wealth, we do not want to take lessons from you and not from left-wing parties. [[13.20]] As to the issue of foreign Hungarians: I did not think that you personally blamed the government for not doing anything for foreign Hungarians. That's pretty amazing. I had a hard time living when the parties supporting you campaigned against Hungarians on 5 December 2004. They were campaigning against Hungarians! And I didn't think that there would ever come a time when we could live to give our 1 million foreign national citizens dual citizenship while you campaigned that it would cost every Hungarian in the motherland tens of thousands of HUF, which was a massive lie. I didn't think we'd be able to survive this trauma. The fact that the Hungarian economy is strengthening now also means that we can help our fellow nations from abroad. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] And I can't forget, Madam Member, although I really find it difficult to say the word "merciful" in this situation that you personally criticized the government for wanting to deliver protective equipment to our troubled foreign fellow nations during the epidemic. [[Noise on the opposition side. Tamás Herczeg: Shame and shame!]] We'll never forget that. And they'd take away their right to vote now. They'd take away their right to vote right now. So we will never forget that it was you who campaigned against Hungarians, and this is the government that corrected this trauma. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-4	Next up is the LMP representative, Antal Csárdi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, When the LMP was formed, we pinned it on our flag that there could be a different policy. But what makes politics different or what makes politics different? This is sustainability and justice. We have built our policy on these corner points, and we are building it up to this day. But every government decision should be at these two corners. It is no coincidence, then, that we have been demanding from the government from the very beginning that its policy should be marked by the requirements of justice and sustainability, but there is neither a trace nor a record of this in the decisions of Fidesz. The biggest loser of this is education in Hungary today. We got to the point where a full-time teaching assistant brings home a net of HUF 155 thousand on ELTE, but an assistant assistant only takes home more than 190 thousand forints if he takes office management. Of course, let's not think of any skilful difference, the net salary of a head of department is around HUF 204 thousand. You'll feel a difference of magnitude if you become a doctor after a few years. The average wage calculated by your statisticians will still not be reached, but if you are appointed a doctor, you can earn up to HUF 260 thousand net without bonuses. But you can say you're lucky, because at least he's been appointed, because there are hundreds of teachers at Hungarian universities today who, although they have fulfilled the conditions for appointment, do not get the appointments, whether they are assistant professors, professors or university teachers. But they are also mistaken when they think that unfair and unsustainable incomes in higher education will be eliminated. The day they agreed on a 20% increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. the minimum wage for skilled workers, they sat down with the teachers' unions and offered them an insufferable 10% raise. But what does this ten percent increase mean? It means that there will be an even greater percentage of teachers whose wage bill income will not reach the guaranteed minimum wage. We know very well that the prehistoric sin of this situation is that you have linked teachers' salaries to the 2014 minimum wage. This decision was made by the Fidesz-KDNP association that since 2019 the wages of a teacher with a basic or college degree have been below the minimum wage of a skilled worker. Since 2020, a teacher with a master's degree has not reached the minimum wage of a skilled worker, and since 2021, a teacher with 3-5 years of professional experience who completed 2 years of internship and then passed a successful qualification exam has been paying only HUF 240 gross over the minimum wage of a skilled worker. That's 160 forints net. All these teachers need to complement their income to the guaranteed minimum wage. If the government refuses to hear the voice of teachers and the 10 percent increase remains, the number of people whose work is valued by the government for the minimum wage will continue to expand, so it believes that their work is worth as much as the worst paid skilled workers. Dear House, Here I must return to the question of justice and sustainability. Dear Secretary of State, With due respect, please tell me, do you really appreciate our fellow countrymen who raise, teach, educate our children? Is that really the value of your work in the national economy? Do you really consider the economy based on high added value to be available at this level of teaching pay? Do you really think it's secure, Mr. Secretary, that in the future, with such a wage level, there will be any replacements for the pedagogical work, the pedagogical career? We are now at the point that a CNC turner earns about three times as much as the instructor who taught him the programming and use of the CNC. A storekeeper working at a commercial company earns more than a teacher with 25 years of experience, and a forklifter earns about twice as much in Hungary today as an assistant professor or professor at a Hungarian university. Of course, these are just examples I could have chosen practically all the professions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would like to conclude that if you happen to remember the situation before 2010, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for 12 years this country has been managed with two-thirds authority...
u2021-11-08-6	Congressman, for some time now, your house rules have passed.
u2021-11-08-7	...so if you don't want to solve this situation, put the lute down. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-8	Please honor the House so much that when you prepare, you can measure how long you can speak. Here you go, Secretary of State. Tamás Schanda has the floor.
u2021-11-08-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Maybe it's called Politics, and that's why they're created. At least that's what the congressman is saying, while your actions show that, if possible, you have failed to do so. You were created against Ferenc Gyurcsány, the policy you wanted to replace on the left, Mr. President, you can smile at it, but the reality is that you are now working every day because you can still be a Member of Parliament because Ferenc Gyurcsány wants it. And you can resume your term of office because Ferenc Gyurcsány wants you to. Honourable Congressman, The fact is, when you talk about how politics can be different, you are proof that you have failed, because you are fighting every moment of your policy, every minute of your life, to get Ferenc Gyurcsány back into power. [[Szabó Timea: Answer the question!]] and take measures again against which, by the way, you have been created. [[Antal Csárdi: Higher education!]] Honourable Congressman, You brought up the pay issues of higher education. Let us not forget that the very Ferenc Gyurcsány with whom you have made an alliance [[Antal Csárdi: For 12 years they have been ruling by two-thirds!]] , withdrawn...
u2021-11-08-10	Congressman Csárdi, you had 20 more seconds, you could have said your thoughts, and now the Secretary of State has the floor.
u2021-11-08-11	Ferenc Gyurcsány, with whom you have joined forces and whose policy you are helping, left-wing government has withdrawn funds from Hungarian higher education and has reduced the wages of teachers and teachers in higher education, as well as teachers in public education. On the other hand, the civil national government, honourable Member, has just recently decided that yes, there is a need to strengthen higher education and make it more competitive, so that it can work more closely with economic centres, economic operators, to carry out research that will serve the further strengthening of the Hungarian economy. Honourable Congressman, It is about you having the opportunity to support the fact that Hungarian higher education can be more competitive and thus provide even more fairer wages for higher education educators. [[13.30]] Congressman, you had the opportunity, and you said no. You said no to that! You also said no to the fact that we significantly increased the budget of the institutions that chose to change the higher education model here in Parliament. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] You would have had the opportunity to personally support the ability of teachers in higher education to raise their wages [[Péter Ungár: But it didn't work!]] [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] You would have had the opportunity to personally support the ability of teachers in higher education to raise their wages (Ungár Péter: But you failed!) You didn't do that. You didn't do that! On the other hand, the common national civilian side has already decided that there will be a 15 plus 15 percent increase in higher education (Péter Ungár intervenes) , 15 percent from 1 September, and 15 percent from 1 January, and the model-shifting institutions, of course, have the opportunity to make additional wage supplements, and we see that this is what the institutions are using anyway. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] "They will do so, honourable Member. So if you had been informed and didn't want to sing from the Gyurcsányi sheet music [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] would not oppose all measures which would help Hungarian higher education to function, raise the quality of higher education, then it would have voted here in Parliament [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] , not all measures that help Hungarian higher education operate and raise the quality of higher education would have been voted in Parliament (Ágnes Kunhalmi intervenes). This bill would have been voted in favour of a more flexible and efficient functioning of higher education institutions and would have voted in favour of a change of model and would not have called the government to account for it, but would have recognised that the change of model is already being seen (Antal Csárdi intervenes) your results; you are already showing your results, honourable Member. Let me also draw attention to the fact that the 15 plus 15 percent wage increase affects not only the model-shifting institutions, but also the state and church institutions. I would also ask you for more humility in the case of educators' wages, honourable Member, because you have indeed made an alliance with those who have taken a month's wages from teachers in public education, have taken a month's wages from teachers, and you are now working for them. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] He's working to bring the same ones back with the same left-wing, austerity-based, tax-enhancing policy. Honourable Congressman, That's pretty amazing. By contrast, the government [[The president's ringing the bell.]] so far, and beyond, he is working to increase the wages of teachers as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-12	Congresswoman Anett Bősz will now speak on behalf of DK. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The government's resolution last week provides for the transfer of some HUF 55 billion within the budget. The essence of parliamentarism is to limit the arbitrage of executive power, including the control of the use of public funds. In happier societies than us, such as Britain, this is the 13th. It has a long tradition until the beginning of the century, as early as 1215 King John the Earthless was forced to impose taxes on the king for justified purposes, with their approval, and to account for this spent money. I find it extremely embarrassing that more than eight hundred years later, you have completely eliminated Parliament and its competent commission from such a decision in the extraordinary, difficult times caused by the epidemic. It is also educational to know what this money is being spent on, Mr. Secretary of State. More than 26 billion will be spent on the Ministry of Finance's Directorate-General for Procurement and Supply, investments and renovations. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is outrageous! This is outrageous!]] The Directorate-General also provides government services, except for defence and foreign affairs. A quote comes from the DG's website: it provides the working environment necessary for the functioning of the ministries and the Prime Minister's Office, and in this context it ensures the operation of the buildings and vehicles of those bodies, the provision of the equipment necessary for the work and the end of the quote. Well, I don't know what else you'd like to set up in government institutions 11.5 years after your government started, but I don't think you should have spent 26 billion forints in theory or practice for this little time. But I'm going on, because nearly HUF 6 billion is being repurposed for propaganda steels, and the transfer of EUR 55 billion is, by the way, largely the Economic Restart Fund and its central reserves for extraordinary measures, most of which should have been allocated to disease management, Mr. Secretary of State. I can only assume that you know that there has been very limited progress not only in dealing with the epidemic, but also in dealing with the economic crisis, and that is why more than HUF 5.5 billion has now been regrouped into government communication in order to explain why there has been a world number here in front of us since the first wave of the epidemic broke the door. Almost 4 billion churches, and 0.5 billion for religious and moral education, can also be seen in action. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Theology, the volition? What?!]] We all know, for the past 11.5 years, the attitude that you have taken as a Christian Democrats towards different churches. You can smile, Your Honours Secretary of State, but it is only the case that your government makes an orderly distinction between churches that are pleasing and displeasing, even between Christian churches. This is how the churches that please you can enjoy spending more than ten billion forints each year, while the otherwise unwelcome Christian churches may have failed to fulfill state tasks such as homelessness or education for disadvantaged young people, yet they are forced to operate in a situation that is often verbally and effectively humiliated by you. I will go further, because a fraction of the previously used amounts for tourism development, only 1.3 billion forints in this package. It would be good to know, Mr Secretary of State, exactly what this HUF 1.3 billion covers, because the news consumer in the field might think that an eye of a targeted NER entrepreneur will be the beneficiary, the government packages that had landed in tourism in the order of hundreds of billions previously, despite the fact that the small companies were waiting for your help, but the large companies, which could easily have survived the first few months of the epidemiological situation, helped them within a moment. The government's decision is just a drop in the sea. The two-thirds majority also opts for any other budgetary and long-term national economy issues without debate, which even our grandchildren will moan about. I will say some of these here in the next 20 seconds: the loan to Fudan University alone is more than the government's total budget for higher education in 2019; and the Budapest-Belgrád railway line can be repaid within 130 years, according to the narrowest estimates. So I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how long we're gonna moan. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] current budgetary measures. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2021-11-08-14	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2021-11-08-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There is a saying that repetition does not change the lie into truth and, listening to your speech, I also have the conviction that this is the case, and that if we repeat a lot and do not update our own servers, in which these lies should be cut to the government week after week, then sooner or later a serious error will slip into the machine, which was also in your mind. I understand, for example, that it is appropriate to criticise expenditure on government communication from the opposition side, and I do not want to limit your freedom in this regard to you, but I would point out that we are here in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic, in the middle of its fourth wave, and it is certainly a serious government and state responsibility to conduct vaccination campaigns, and the organisation and conduct of these vaccination campaigns is a government competence. All this time, I thought that, unlike the people of a year ago, compared to the time when you guys were quite openly puffing up anti-vaccination sounds, you've come to a better understanding by now, but it doesn't seem to be the case. So I would like to ask you to look behind the numbers, look behind your statements, and think about exactly what kind of government spending, what kind of government measures serve policy purposes, because, indeed, you will find policy goals at the end that you should agree with on paper. But so much for this little intermezzo. On the other hand, I would like to remind you once again, honourable Member, that you have criticised the economic performance that the government has done in the last 11 years, if I understand correctly, and specifically in relation to the coronal virus epidemic in the last year and a half. The lucky thing is that we can compare the crisis management activities of left-liberal policy before 2010 and the crisis management activities of this government, and we have a basis for comparison. [[13.40]] I am not saying that this government has acted perfectly in everything, that there is no such government, just as this world is not the best of the existing worlds, but there is time and opportunity for a realistic comparison. If you're looking at this, you and your political allies are doing a very bad job, and there's no indication that they might do better later. When Hungary was hit by a serious crisis in 2008-2009, the government debt disappeared, unemployment was skyrocketed, economic performance fell back into unprecedented depths, you personally and those Members sitting around you voted here in Parliament to take a month's wages from people or a month's pension from pensioners. They wanted to pay for health care, they raised their VAT by 5 percentage points, and they decided to introduce tuition and property taxes, and I didn't even talk about the dozens of times higher energy prices. So if this is the help that in your government philosophy and in your government philosophy the Hungarian people get in the event of a crisis, then thank you very much, I can also say on behalf of the Hungarian people that we do not ask for any of this. We have followed a completely opposite philosophy, and the budgetary resources that you have listed are being used to help people and Hungarian businesses, because from these sources there will also be money for the measures that I would like to share with you now. On the one hand, from 1 January next year, young people under the age of 25 do not have to pay personal income tax at all in Hungary. Families and families raising small children will receive the full tax paid this year, and there has also been no such measure in Hungary. We have made a minimum wage increase: the minimum wage is higher than the average wage in your time. The pensioners will get their 13th month's pension back, and thanks to the favourable economic environment, we can also pay them a pension premium. We are also trying to appreciate the members of the armed bodies, they will also receive six months' arms money, and despite the crisis, we have been able to conduct an unprecedented increase in medical wages. I think that everyone in Hungary can make one step forward [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hungary does not want to turn back. We want to go forward, not back, and we are asking the Hungarian people to support government policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-16	Now it's time for the group leader of MSZP, Bertalan Tóth. I give you the floor.
u2021-11-08-17	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Orbán spoke to Hungarian pensioners in a letter these days: he talked about the successes and plans he thought were approaching the elections, and he also punched the young people a little. You might think he lied just as much as he ever did, but no, he's out of line. While the coronal virus epidemic curve is rising sharply in Hungary, the Prime Minister wrote to our elderly compatriots: thanks to the vaccinations, we managed to contain the virus. What? ! The fourth wave is just starting to explode. At the moment, according to the indicators published by professionals, the virus is the fastest spread throughout the world in Hungary. Then three days ago, the Prime Minister went on the radio and admitted that he and his government were powerless against the spread of the epidemic. You said your government couldn't convince any more people to get vaccinated. This is clearly a failure. So on one side, we stopped the virus while the epidemic rages; on the other hand, we are powerless to increase the number of vaccinations. This statement is the most irresponsible thing a country leader can do. This is nothing more than a game with human lives for political gain. What Fidesz does is this so-called penguining: we pull up our shoulders, spread our hands. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] That's the answer. Well, that doesn't require full authority, Viktor Orbán has received all the means, money, steed, and weapons to defend himself, not to steal, to defend himself against the epidemic. There is no regulation governance so that the leader of Europe's most expensive government can now only explain and pass on all responsibility to others. We have lost more than 31,000 of our countrymen, but according to Orbán, he has no responsibility for this. The responsibility for ordering compulsory vaccination has also been shifted to employers; if the epidemic breaks out even more, they should be responsible. Yet, protecting people's lives and health is not the job of employers, and the Fidesz government is empowered to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, Health care is in ruins, because Fidesz drove doctors and nurses away in the middle of a raging epidemic. The government is not prepared for any wave of epidemics while withholding data and information. Even during the epidemic, health services do not have the EU average money, and we are at the end of the line in terms of grafting. Let's say: Viktor Orbán and Fidesz have failed the country, leading to 12 years of Fidesz government, this total failure. But speaking of the unique results of the Orbán government, let's look a little further: the forint has never been so weak. The weak forint devalues salaries and incomes. The weaker forint is clearly against the interests of the people, the weaker forint is a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. I think this saying is familiar, as your boss, Viktor Orbán, said in 2004, so he may be a weak man now. If a euro cost 265 HUF in 2010, now 365 HUF, how did they protect the forint? We should stop the deliberate weakening of the forint, from which we know precisely that the Hungarian National Bank, led by György Matolcsy, is making hundreds of billions, and from this it pays its kissers, while the Hungarian people are being destroyed. But here's another thing: the bread has never been so expensive, it costs more than 400 forints a kilo of bread. Why are they not willing to reduce the VAT on bread to at least 5%? This could reduce nearly a hundred forints if the MSZP proposal were to be followed. This would be a huge help to millions of Hungarians. Oh, that they're busy with more important things than organizing and extracting public wealth into foundations? But I have a suggestion, my honourable fellow Members: don't rush it, because we are going to get them all back from everyone. Gas has never cost so much, it costs over 500 forints per litre, and you don't do anything. When there was 250 forints of petrol and you were in opposition, András Tállai demanded that the price of fuel be frozen, and the state assumed the burden of the price above 250 forints. Until 2010, Fidesz politicians demanded a reduction in excise duty on fuels in a choir. Why don't you guys get out of here? Fidesz is clearly unable to protect the country from the epidemic, unable to protect the country from brutally expensive. The only solution is the change of government. That is why we are building the widest possible cooperation, and that is why next spring we are going to expel the Fidesz for our common future, Hungary.
u2021-11-08-18	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-11-08-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Your position is entirely opposed to that of both the WHO leaders in terms of disease management and the result of an international comparison, the Nikkei comparison. The WHO leader, Hans Kluge, said against you, honourable Member, that they are conducting an exemplary vaccination campaign in Hungary, that they consider the vaccine to be a lifesaver, the issue of which goes beyond geopolitics. But also the Director General of WHO, when he was here and acknowledged the country's performance, said that we should be over-confident and that Hungary was very well protected against the epidemic. In the Nikkei comparison, Hungary is among the first countries in the world, in the first 10-15, as we were in the first 10-15 years of the world in terms of the speed of vaccination, and in the European Union Hungary was the second fastest vaccinated country. What did you say when the speed of vaccination was important? The Chinese vaccine is a completely untested and unconfirmed vaccine, said you. The Prime Minister announced that he would inoculate millions of elderly people with an untested vaccine, which has not been confirmed by professionals. You have spoken of vaccines that have been tested by international laboratories and WHO has also recommended to the countries of the world and have vaccinated tens of millions and hundreds of millions of people in the countries of the world with them, and you have spoken of these vaccines, honourable Member, that we should not hope for vaccines falling from trucks, but that we should give people safety. What else would you offer security, honourable Member, than vaccines? How did you help defend yourself here within the walls of Parliament? Nothing, Your Honour. You stood up, you stood up for Lajos Korózs and his fake news video, you said you had to be filmed, and you'd be shot once more when you told a fake paramedic about hospitals that sick people from hospitals who need treatment would be released and abandoned. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You sent them back to the nursing home!]] [[13.50]] You stand up for this man, but you refused to stand for vaccinations and vaccines. What would have happened if Hungary had been affected by the epidemic under socialist governance and left-wing governance? Not only would the country have been in a more difficult economic situation, but all patients with coronal viruses would have paid visits and hospital daily allowances, would have been in intensive care and would have taken the daily allowance from them. [[Agnes Kunhalmi keeps interrupting.]] There would have been fewer medical personnel, since you've laid off 6,000 medical workers. Honourable Congressman, Although you said the opposite sentences, the reality is that since we introduced the new medical service service, 1881 new services have been established by doctors, 1942 there are more nursing services. [[Agnes Kunhalmi keeps interrupting.]] , and 843 other medical services have been established. This is a total of 4666 new legal relationships, honourable Member, so there are more workers here, not less. And what is absolutely terrifying is what your policyr, Imre László, said that 45 percent of hospitals would be closed. Where would they cure patients with coronal viruses if you closed 45 percent of the hospitals in Hungary? That is clearly what your policyholder has been talking about, honourable Member. You mentioned the kissers. I think that you, who spoke of the CSOK as being quite amazing at the idea that, by the way, if anyone has money and wants to buy an apartment, then let's help him with this institution called CSOK, he called it amazing, and then he picked it up himself, but that's no different from your fellow group leader, Peter James. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervene.]] They're against it here in Parliament, and then they're gonna pick it up. This was the case with vaccinations: here, in Parliament, they criticized it, and they still have a proposal for a decision in force, which would stop the vaccination process with regard to Eastern vaccines, and then their own factions were vaccinated with it. It is the same with the CSOK: when they make a statement, the CSOK is criticized, but otherwise it is recorded, because they know and know that this is useful for everyone who starts a family, who raises children, honourable Member. As regards wages and the standard of living of the people, honourable Member, you know that the minimum wage will now be higher in Hungary from 1 January next year than the average wage at your time. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] I think that's a big difference between government perceptions. You know that excise duty has been reduced, as we have established a system that, if petrol prices increase on the world market and thus in Hungary, excise duty will be reduced, so the government has reduced the excise duty on petrol. But what we do know is that if the left were to return to Hungary, one thing would surely happen in the economy immediately and to a very large extent, and this is the increase in prices. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervene.]] Because you continue to believe that the world market price needs to be adjusted. This means that Hungarians would pay more than 400 thousand forints a year for the rent. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] as you have done even after 2002. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-20	For a moment I was uncertain that I had given the floor to the ladies of the MSZP at once. But no, I realized I didn't tell them. On the other hand, it is now James Peter's faction leader.
u2021-11-08-21	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! János Áder said in 2005, a year after our accession to the EU, that if the fuel price rises above HUF 250, the government will have to intervene immediately and stop further increase by reducing excise duty. Now, what about the HUF 500 fuel price, fellow Members? Now, when you have over 500 forints of gasoline, what do you think you should do? Because I think that exactly what you proposed in 2005, the government must intervene immediately, reduce the rate of excise duty, and even more temporarily, over 500 forints of petrol, but we have to let go of the whole thing in order to make petrol and gas oil actually cheaper. In 2004, Viktor Orbán said that the state was profiting from fuel prices. I agree. Half the fuel price is tax: if someone fills the car today for 20,000 forints, the government will take 10,000 forints. Yes, this is indeed profiteering, only then stop doing it, stop winning with the Hungarian people's wallets! Or are you going to collect all the money you're going to want to distribute before the election next year? You're about to hammer your 13th month pension? Or Uncle Fat Laci needs some grenade launchers and a crowd control device, and who knows what else? Or do you want to build a stadium or private hospitals? I am reading now that the government is helping to build a private clinic in NewBuda with hundreds of millions of HUF non-refundable funding, while the state hospitals are falling on our heads. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, including Dr. Pál Völner: That's a lie.]] Interesting, there's no money for public health, and there's money for private clinics? ! By the way, the owner of this private clinic is János Kóka, former Minister of the Gyurcsány government. So now you're sponsoring him with hundreds of millions of forints, how is that, Secretary of State? Now, stop Gyurcsány! .. or not! Stop Gyurcsány! I want you to decide what you want. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, among them: You should decide first.]] By the way, for my part, I'm saying stop gas prices! Because seeing you do nothing, Jobbik has launched a petition, in which, by the way, we demand nothing but what you have demanded of the governments before 2010. We demand that either the petrol prices be frozen immediately, as the Croatians do, or the 27 percent European record VAT is released; or the 120 HUF excise duty per litre is released. I don't care which solution you choose, but do something now, I beg you, because the Hungarian people will be ruined by the increase. 'Cause where the gas is expensive, everything's expensive, everything. Sugar is 9 percent, butter is 10 percent, flour is 25 percent more expensive not in a year, but in a month, fellow Members! This is brutally expensive, brutal! At prices like this, what does a worker do for a living, what does a pensioner do for a living, what do these people do? What Viktor Orbán suggested to them at the peace procession to stand in front of their house and protect it? Is this the future or what do we expect? Hunger riots? Because seeing your irresponsible governance, it's still in the cards. Because it is not governance, fellow Members, that when the price of petrol sets records and the price of food sets records, you will know the question with so much as not to worry here, because the government is monitoring prices. Well, I'm sorry, there's a country that's actually watching prices, and you're looking at a country that doesn't do anything about it. They're gonna spread their hands around here, Tallai Bandi and the rest of them are gonna be ringing a bell in Parliament, so I guess they're gonna do it now, and then the question is over. Excuse me, but a kindergarten teacher can do better than that, except he doesn't get a million-dollar retainer. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] So, fellow Members, this is not a place to pay attention and not to profit, it is a place to act. You only want to deduct nearly HUF 100 billion from the excise duty on petrol by the end of the year. Don't do it! Don't do that, leave this money with the public, so there's something to fill the car, have something to go to work or to a doctor, have something to buy bread, have something to live on. Because it doesn't work, let's face it, life in Miskolc is almost as expensive as in Vienna, there are only four times the difference in salaries. And of course, I know they're gonna tell you here that next year there's gonna be a handout before the election. Of course, there's gonna be a handout, but I'm afraid a lot of people won't survive the looting. It's heat season, it's cold. Yes, I fear that with such petrol prices and such food prices, this will be an unbearable burden for many. Fellow Members, believe me, I am only motivated by good intentions. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Viktor Orbán and his family, I know very well that when they can manage 180 million a month, it is amazing to say: this man and his family have an income of 180 million a month, but I believe that they cannot feel the depth of this problem. You can't imagine what it's like to buy 400 forints of bread out of 133,000 or 200,000 a month. That's why I'm trying to help you, and that's why I'm asking you, at least in this extraordinary situation, not to deal with the cuffing and the clowning, but to control the prices. For once, act like a responsible government. I know it's a long shot, but try and see if you can do it.
u2021-11-08-22	Once again, it is up to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör, to answer the question.
u2021-11-08-23	Now I don't want to get serious about how clowns can do the best they can with clowns if they're not clowns. [[Defiance and intervention from Jobbik's ranks, including: What self-criticism!]] The reason why I do not want to explain this better is because it is an important issue. First of all, in such a situation, when the epidemic has caused a great deal of economic difficulties, how the government is helping citizens or, as you said, the population. It is a decision that the minimum wage will be 200,000 forints. We know that there is still room to raise this, but when you do not, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when this government started operating, it was 73,000 forints. The people you made an alliance with left this behind. It has also been decided, and economic growth makes it possible for families to receive a tax refund. This could be hundreds of thousands of forints, or even millions in the case of two search engines. On the other hand, your candidate for Prime Minister said that he supports progressive taxation, which we know is what it means in practice, not a tax refund, but a 36-percent tax rate. As far as the issue of pensioners is concerned, it has been decided that they will receive a single pension premium of HUF 80,000, and we will rebuild the 13th month pension that your new allies have taken away from them. [[14.00]] With regard to the issue of petrol prices, he demands that the government do something to curb prices, and I would like to draw his attention to the fact that in Hungary there is a petrol pricing system that automatically reduces taxes in the event of higher prices, which led to a reduction in excise duty rates in April. Nevertheless, the most important factor determining prices is the world market price for oil. It's just as important right now that you have a candidate for Prime Minister. You're campaigning alongside Péter Márki-Zay. Now, this Prime Minister candidate has made it clear what he thinks about petrol prices and energy prices. I would ask my fellow Members and you personally, Mr Group leader, to listen, because it concerns the question that you have just raised. So what did Peter Marki-Zay say about this? It means that no social component is considered justified in the petrol price. So I repeat: no social component is considered justified. [[Interview from Fidesz: Go!]] That's clear. The price regulation you referred to is a communist idea. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Oops!]] It's a communist idea. But that is not all, because he also talked about other countries' experiences, about the fact that when the price of petrol went up in another country, the people who came to work took turns carrying each other to work. He highlighted this as a positive example, because he argued that I am quoting again: to make the economy sustainable, it is necessary to feel the increase in energy prices. [[Intercoms from Fidesz, among them: Oops! How's that? Peter James: He doesn't answer the question!]] So, let me put it this way, so you can have one more. Your candidate doesn't think any social aspects are justified. [[György Szilágyi: What about you?]] considers price regulation to be a communist idea [[György Szilágyi: What about you on the steering wheel?]] And by the way, I quote him, everyone must feel the increase in energy prices. And if you were to say that you said that earlier, look at what you said yesterday. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Our goal wasn't to stop global prices at the border. This is the official position of your Prime Minister's candidate. Now I don't know how you've heard politicians say such insensitive sentences in recent years. Cold insensitiveness like this and misplaced politics have led to loss in many countries [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] that countries bigger and richer than us are now preparing for blackouts. You know, blackouts. ? There are countries in Romania where the energy supply has already been interrupted, such as Timisoara, where five hospitals have been left unattended. [[György Szilágyi: Who's on the wheel?]] You're right about one thing: it's heating season, and it's cold. In this situation, however, the point is that you would do nothing to curb energy prices, allow for world market prices, just as you did nothing, but did nothing to curb prices between 2002 and 2010. And then you come along and perform your pre-tested production. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Well, I don't know how to say this, but as unpleasant as it is, it's so frivolous, Your Honour. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You're missing the genre!]] One thing I'm gonna ask you to finish this: if you really want to curb the prices, please convince your bosses of this first. [[György Szilágyi: You are on the steering wheel, you are on the steering wheel! You!]] We now know that we have heard that Péter Márki-Zay and the President of DK regularly consult. I'm asking you, Mr. James, to knock on the door next time and tell them your demands. We wish you good luck and more courage to do this, and then tell us about it next week. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] How it worked out. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. György Szilágyi: You are on the wheel!]]
u2021-11-08-24	I now give the floor to the leader of the KDNP faction, Member István Simicskó. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honestly, I am very sorry that the MSZP fraction completely withdrew when Peter James spoke. Of course, I understand this partly: your most important ally doesn't listen to you anymore and doesn't take you seriously. Nevertheless, the government is responding to everything, and we thank the Secretary of State for that. Ladies and gentlemen, We live in a world that has new challenges for today's people: migration crisis, pandemic, economic crisis, natural, industrial disasters, energy price explosions to name just a few. From historical studies, we remember that the 19th century was the year of the 19th century. The 20th century was called the period of nationhood, the 20th century. a century to the era of world wars. It is safe to say that Article XXI The century has been a century of challenges, risks, threats and threats, at least the last two decades have certainly shown this to all of us. All these challenges and risks represent a whole range of situations that have a negative impact on the internal and external stability of states. National interests may be damaged, even national interests may disappear, losses may arise. The most important task of governments is to detect, understand and respond to, or remedy, security threats. This is how the Hungarian government has acted, and so does the Hungarian government. I'd like to refer you to the construction of the border fence. We are now saying that this work is a model tax for other countries within the European Union. I would refer briefly to Greece, Spain, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia and Poland. And, yes, we look forward to it, even ask, and even demand that Brussels acknowledge the efforts of the Member States in this regard, and we expect recognition and support from Brussels to protect the external borders and protect the Christian Europe. This is how the government acted with the reduction of the rent, stood with the people, and made an exemplary decision, taking significant burdens from the shoulders of the people through it, and thus it has acted during the epidemic, and it is doing so at present during the repression of the pandemic, not to mention the steps taken to restart the economy. In the last 20 years, there have been left-wing governments, and there is the Fidesz-KDNP government. Of course, there have been various crises during all periods. The ability to react, decide, decide well shows the character of a government, its characters, its characteristic characteristics, how it relates to a crisis situation, what decisions it makes, how it recognizes problems, and how it intends to remedy and resolve them. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to briefly describe these characters. On the one hand, the goal of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the number one and decisive boss of the left, is to create a European united states, in which, of course, a weak, dying state, imagines Hungary to be absorbed into this united states. We are constantly, repeatedly and in support of our decisions, we are working, and the government is doing this to build a strong, independent, national identity, a man-centred state, because we know that the nation's most fundamental value is to maintain its own existence and to preserve its identity. Ladies and gentlemen, Then a short comparison, which I promised, will go through with it and show what decisions left-wing governments have made, where they have taken the country, and how Fidesz-KDNP has corrected all of this. Let me just mention a few things: a trap for foreign exchange credentials, a low employment rate, aid-based support, declining family allowances, adopted home-building benefits, family tax incentives, paying health care, daily allowances, visits, taking away the 13th month pension from pensioners. There have been 15 increases, my fellow Members, during the governance of the left: twice the price of electricity, three times the price of gas, to name only a few. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP government has helped foreign exchange lenders, achieved high employment, introduced work-based support, introduced family taxation, the CSOK, women's 40, home renovation support, medical wage increase, pension premium. The aim of the 13th month pension and the withdrawal of the debt reduction remain, the decisive goal of the Hungarian government, precisely to be on the side of the people, feeling their burdens and seeing those negative processes. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] what we perceive in Brussels, on the other hand, we will protect Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-11-08-26	Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár has the floor.
u2021-11-08-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Indeed, we can see that the Hungarian left keeps saying that these are fake problems, that they need not be dealt with, that life always proves that the government is really dealing with the goals, that it deals with the problems that can affect people's lives the most. This was also the case with the issue of migration, which was said to be a pseudo-problem invented by Fidesz, and it is also the case with the reduction of overhead, so that Hungarian people can better plan the costs of daily self-preservation. Incredible, we wouldn't have thought, let alone ten years ago, or even ten days ago, what advertisements they would publish in Austria, Germany. In Austria, the announcement of the armed forces is about how to prepare for the energy crisis, if there will be a massive and long blackout this winter season. [[14.10]] It convinces or informs Austrian citizens that the infrastructure stops, public transport, gas stations, traffic lights, rail traffic, lifts, mobile networks, the Internet, the banking system, water supply, sewage discharge, problems with lighting, cooling equipment and most heating systems can occur in their household. They say to Austrian citizens that the most important thing is to remain calm, to act carefully and carefully, and to prepare for this winter as if they were going on a two-week camping trip, only in their own apartment, in their own home, and to draw attention to the fact that the tanks of their cars are always half full. We also saw a training video from Germany that if people were to remain unheated this winter, they would have to cover the windows with a heat shield, and how to build a mini stove from candles and flower pots, so that the neighbors, at least one of whom should be immigrants, could be invited to their own homes and somehow survive the cold and winter. Ladies and gentlemen, It was amazing, unthinkable that such things would happen in Europe, to draw people's attention to this. This means that something has been very messed up by European leaders. If such things are to be prepared in Austria and Germany, it means that European politics in recent years has made huge mistakes, if, in principle, such educational videos are to be published on the world's safest and most vibrant continent, the most prosperous continent in Europe, before a winter. We see the Left's response to this, that less electricity needs to be consumed, less bathing, suggest Péter Márki-Zay in this case. This is about the same as when Gergely Christmas said that anyone who has too long to wait in traffic should get out of their car and go on foot or by public transport, but we can see that if he doesn't like getting up early, a good way to do this is to leave his job, then he can work from home office, and he won't be distracted by the start of work at 8:00. They provide answers from the left that are obviously not acceptable to citizens at all. And what Hungarian left-wing politicians have said about the reduction of the rent in recent years, because they have had a wide variety of negative indications, which is why we do not have to publish such educational videos in Hungary. Ferenc Gyurcsány said literally:, The reduction of the rent is a stupid thing. You can applaud that we've broken down all the benefits, but then we'll end up starving because we need to make a profit in a well-functioning economy. He is not afraid of starving, Ferenc Gyurcsány, that if the overhead is high, it is good, because the market is good, but he is afraid that if the profit disappears from the system, the benefits of the privatized foreign-owned utility companies will come because he thinks that hunger is coming in Hungary. How twisted is the logic of Ferenc Gyurcsány that the profit of profit-oriented companies is the only thing that is important is their benefit, not that people can afford the rent. Péter Márki-Zay: how foolish he used to say so to reduce the overhead, to reduce the overhead, to use less water, to use less electricity, to use less gas. He was clearly against the reduction of the rent. But Bernadett Szél also placed a point on the.I., who called the reduction of the rent a fraud and magic, and said as a true liberal, heartless economist, no, please, you can't break away from market prices. He believed in the left, and he believed every day in addition to market price regulation, as he did not help foreign exchange creditors, as he left the families alone, as he wanted to make health care market-based, to privatize the social security register, so in terms of rent again it turned out that the profits of large companies were more important to them than so that Hungarians could pay their bills safely and not jump to the same heights as in many Western European countries. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-28	Thank you. There are two other contributions to be made before the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to listen patiently to these. I give the floor to Fidesz Congressman Gyula Budai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The left-wing oligarch of László Bige, known as the red baron, announced his willingness to financially support the campaign of Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány. László Bige, a longtime confidant of Gyurcsány, is likely to support the left because he hopes that if they come to power, they will be able to exert pressure on the judiciary to eliminate the proceedings against him. We also remember that in 2008 the Gyurcsány government decided that the Hungarian Development Bank should grant EUR 56 million of investment loans to Nitrate Works Ltd., which belong to Bige's interest, under a loan agreement. In addition, the Socialist Government has offered a paying guarantee of 80% of its loan and contributions of HUF 10 billion, with a requirement to deposit 76 percent of the company's stock market. However, the piquantity of the matter is that the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county court ordered a lockdown for 50% of the shares market, so the option contract could not have been concluded. The European Commission has conducted an investigation and the formal investigation procedure has stated that the amount paid to Nitrogénművek constitutes partly prohibited State aid and has a distorting effect on competition, and that the part incompatible with the internal market has therefore to be repaid to the European Union. In fact, illegal State aid and aid other than possible objectives raise the possibility of achieving undue economic advantage to competitors. The Hungarian Competition Authority imposed a record-size fine of HUF 14.1 billion on the left-wing billionaire, as it was found that the company group of Nitrogénművek linked to Bige's company sought to restrict competition between partners and groups of companies for years and to limit imports. This means, therefore, that the company has always tried to profit from illegal cartels on Hungarian farmers by restricting competition in the fertilizer market. But let us not forget that not only did the financiers of Márki-Zay cause significant damage to farmers, but the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Attorney General's Office also charged him with the crime of misappropriation. László Bige's oligarch and his associates were charged with a crime that damaged his own company by HUF 2 billion, while raising over HUF 700 million in bribery money. Dear House, László Bige himself stated that it is natural for him to give all the support to the left, and he also considers Ferenc Gyurcsány's candidate for Prime Minister Péter Márki-Zay to be excellent. It is embarrassing that the Gyurcsányist left, which sets themselves on the side of ordinary people and the leaders of transparent, fair economic competition, can accept for power the money of a man who has taken a lot of money from Hungarian farmers and has also damaged his own company. In exchange, László Bige asks the left and his candidate, Péter Márki-Zay, to help him not to be held accountable for justice. It's a real Bolshevik method. Dear House, Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-30	Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-11-08-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the thoughts and facts you have told raise a number of questions about how people in rural Hungary in the field of Hungarian agriculture can influence the farming, the difficult work that will take place in Hungarian agriculture and Hungarian agriculture. We do agree, indeed, on the part of the Agricultural Ministry, that the decision of the Economic Competition Authority to eliminate infringements is legitimate, and its decisions are not only acceptable to us, but also clearly unquestionable steps. The penalties imposed are proportionate and do not jeopardise the security of domestic fertiliser supply, while preventing the recurrence of similar events. Cartel companies have caused significant damage to both competitors and Hungarian buyers, damaging the domestic economy, which is totally unacceptable. Many farmers have been surprised over the last few years by the increase in fertiliser prices that have occurred incomprehensiblely over the years, when the prices of raw materials have not changed in practice, even farmers did not think what conclusions would arise from such a company, such a company with a left-wing background, and what new turns they had to face. Therefore, these questions have been crystallized for today. [[14.20]] The Hungarian Competition Authority concluded that, as a result of the infringement agreements, Pétic goods could not compete with Péti goods. Therefore, competition on the Hungarian fertilizer market has decreased, the members of the Bige Group have also limited import purchases, free pricing of products and competition for customers by using the principles, whip and cake. They did so in the hope of a high profit, by illegally increasing the basic inputs needed to produce everyday food. As fertilizer is of major importance in agriculture for field nutrient supply, the effects of the infringement could continue to spread to the food market by increasing the costs of producers, thus damaging all Hungarian consumers. Improving efficiency and competitiveness is one of the most important issues of the Hungarian agriculture and food industry, which the Agricultural Ministry seeks to improve through comprehensive measures, despite the pandemic and global market difficulties. In view of this, it is particularly repulsive and harmful that an actor within the sector weakens the competitiveness of other fair players, exercising this for years through illegal transactions. I would just like to mention that during the past year and a half, during the severe Covid situation, during the epidemic, the actors in the agriculture have done everything in their power to ensure that sufficient quality and quantity of food is placed on the table of all Hungarian consumers, all Hungarian citizens, even though the difficulties, the challenges, including the increase in fertiliser prices in recent years, have caused them an increasing economic difficulty and a loss of efficiency. I hope that, in the future, there will also be clear conditions and the dominance of clean players in this market. In the last nine years, we have achieved significant results, and the productivity of the Hungarian economy has also improved outstandingly at EU level, despite such difficulties, such outstanding maladministrations, dominated the Hungarian fertiliser market. We trust that preserving the growth path of Hungarian agriculture is in our common interest, especially today. In this respect, everyone has a responsibility to the future generation. The role of financial renewal and the role of left-wing, such directional leaders and dominant persons must play in the coming period: I believe that this example shows that these people, these manufacturers, must be banned from this market, and this market must be made clear. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-08-32	Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Ritter, a German national representative, is now taking the floor before the agenda. I give the floor to the representative, who will continue his comment in German for a few sentences and then in Hungarian. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-33	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir, Sie kurz über den Zielen und aktuelle Ergebnisse das Stipendienprogramm für Nationalitätenpädagogen zu informieren! Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to briefly inform you about the educational scholarship programme for the minority educator, shortening the results and future goals of NÖP. In order to facilitate the provision of minority pedagogues, the aim of the teaching scholarship is to grant students a full-time, evening or correspondence relationship in higher education institutions providing training, and a professionally dedicated teacher of ethnic education, teaching, teaching, teaching and teaching, as well as a scholarship in the language and culture of nationality. For the students of the minority educator, in cooperation with the National Government of the Germans of Hungary and the national authorities of the co-nationalities, we introduced the National Teacher Scholarship System with retroactive effect in January 2019, but until September 1, 2018. As a result, the time limit for the use of the service is 19th. by 87 people in the year, by the end of the year 20. by 217 people in the year, in the year 2020 and 21. We signed a scholarship contract with 436 people in the year. The currently in progress, 2021-.22. We are expected to be able to enter into a contract with 114 new national education students, i.e. some 550 young people in total. 68 of them had already completed their studies by a former scholarship teacher. In accordance with their scholarship agreement, they were located in ethnic public education institutions. They are the staff of the German Educational and Methodology Center in Hungary, who manage the entire scholarship system, complicate it for all nationalities, assist and monitor them in their location. I would also like to thank you for your work. The scholarship can be used by a minority educator of the German, Croatian, Roma, Romanian, Serbian, Slovak and Slovenian communities who is committed and successful in the education of the national minority teacher, who strives to reach the higher educational average as possible; he acquires qualifications and qualifications; after obtaining the diploma, he will establish a full-time public employment relationship in any educational institution of the nationality of Hungary with at least the length of the period for which the scholarship has been paid. A well-functioning, long-term, growing minority educator scholarship programme can be one of the safeguards for the survival of our nationalities, since high-quality education and education cannot be guaranteed without a well-trained and adequate number of ethnic educators. The continuously rising financial resources of the scholarship are provided by Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. from the nationality framework. with his help. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész, and his colleagues for their helpful, cooperative work on the development of the Nationality Educational Scholarship Programme and the development of the conditions. Finally, I think it is extremely important to point out that if we can provide 100-200 or up to 500 more well-trained ethnic teachers with the help of the national minority scholarship programme, we can not only improve the situation of the national minority educatorship, but at the same time provide the same number of well-trained teachers for the entire Hungarian public education system, and I think that this is an outstanding task for all of us. We indigenous nationalities in Hungary will continue to do everything in our power to succeed in the national minority scholarship programme, to which we will continue to ask for your help. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[Applause for the governing parties and a sporadic applause from the independent benches.]]
u2021-11-08-34	I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész.
u2021-11-08-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the recognition of nationalities has changed significantly since 2010 as a result of joint work. This is reflected in the rise in the support system, as many people now know that the support system has increased six times since 2010, as you are a Member of Parliament, and the others are here, as advocates from nationalities, we can support genuine NGOs, which maintain real communities and are struggling for real problems, especially in relation to nationalities. Participation in public education has been an outstanding change in recent years, since in 2010 there were 12 institutions maintained by national or local national authorities, and now there are 100 kindergartens, primary schools or secondary schools maintained by national minorities. [[14.30]] It is therefore a task, responsibility, but also an opportunity to take over this institution. If we wanted to change, and we wanted to, we needed a survey, preparation, and then an extension of the national minority scholarship programme in many areas. It was clear in the survey and in the preparation that there was a shortage of teachers, on the one hand, and there was a need to increase preparedness and, where appropriate, not to leave this area, especially in Western Hungary, colleagues, staff and teachers who are helping ethnic schools. This is why we have created a minority educator's programme which consists of three parts: it consists of an increase in nationality allowances, which has now reached the 40 per cent level, 4 000 teachers receive it, it is very important; it consists of, of course, the increase in the quality of the tools, the renovation, expansion and construction of kindergartens, schools; it is a third part, as you mentioned, of course, of the teacher's scholarship. Thus, in four years, hundreds of students have benefited from this, and we have been able to help them with HUF 900 million in support, but it is at least as important that they themselves undertake to work in the area for as long as they receive the support. Seven out of 13 nationalities are affected by this support scheme, and the results are positive. It is important and moved in the right direction, young people and students too, teachers feel the positive change. I would also like to thank the national minority authorities and, in particular, the pedagogical and methodological centres, because they have developed and sought the scholarship system of students. Of course, thanks for the many, many investments, for maintaining their activities to the national authorities, they have done a great job in recent years. This is linked to an idea I would like to share with you. This is the fact that last week we held a nationality conference in the framework of the Presidency of the Council of Europe. Even the representative of the German Government spoke absolutely positively about Hungary's national policy. The majority of the contributions, I add, are also the majority of foreigners, with one exception, and the majority of Hungarian speakers have also seen absolutely positive changes, such as the positive changes that have taken place over the past period, and the surveys have supported this, which have been presented by researchers. But there was also an irresponsible voice at this conference, and an unprepared comment from a person who does not know the truth appeared at this conference, only from behind the desk. I could also say that a Brussels councilman did it in the same way that Brussels bureaucrats do it in energy policy, and we see the consequences. Millions of people are gonna feel it on their own, and they're gonna feel bad decisions on their wallets. Now, such a proposer has appeared at this Council of Europe meeting and has made a silly comment that is unacceptable. Unacceptable, because there was something that we had already done; there was something that he was smart about, and he made a proposal that was completely unenforceable. What we can do in this case is to go our own way. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and I think that this has led to success in national policy, as in others. Thank you very much for the suggestion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-36	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-11-08-37	Dear Parliament, László Horváth, Fidesz; László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; Anett Bősz, DK; László Varju, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Gergely Arató, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; János Latorcai, KDNP; Kristóf Szatmári, Fidesz; Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria is a Polish ethnic speaker. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik. Dóra Dúró, independent; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; János Stummer, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; András Aradszki, KDNP; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. On Thursday, János Bencsik, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2021-11-08-38	Dear House, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the mandate of the President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2021-11-08-39	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4 (c) of the Fundamental Law and CLXXXV of 2010 on media services and mass communication. Law 113. On the basis of paragraph 1 (b), I have concluded that Dr. Karas Monika Zsuzsanna, President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, will be terminated with effect from 31 October 2021. Budapest, 20 October 2021 Sincerely, János Áder is President of the Republic. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2021-11-08-40	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask this House to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Now, at 2:37 p.m., we'll proceed to interpellation negotiations. I am ordering a one-minute technical break, and I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quickly and preferably quietly if they have anything to do elsewhere. [[Break: 2.37-14.39]] (President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dr. Ádám Steinmetz)
u2021-11-08-41	László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2021-11-08-42	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The government took advantage of the communication battle of the coronal virus epidemic and began to reorganize hospitals. Several departments are being reorganized and hospital beds are being completely destroyed through the National Hospital Directorate-General, which is the OKF. As a sign of restructuring, obstetrical or paediatric beds, supply places from smaller hospitals to larger county hospitals, and even by January at the latest, may have new operating and organizational regulations for hospitals, which also include the taking over of economic governance by county institutions. This is the complete elimination of the economic autonomy of local hospitals. The sign of this is what the national hospital director wrote to hospitals in his letter that in the future the tasks performed by the economic organizations of urban institutions or part of them will be concentrated in county institutions. The planned reforms will gradually evacuate urban and small-town hospitals, which were previously built by local people and then renovated by local authorities. It is not only the government of Viktor Orbán, but Zoltán Jenei, who led the project by him, who is responsible for this task. It is worth seeing who this Jenei Zoltán really is, who is leading all of this on behalf of Viktor Orbán. It is not difficult for the leader to find his professional past: Jenei gained his experience not in health care, but in law enforcement, including in the area of 2006. In 2006 and 2007, Zoltán Jenei set a cordon for those who now employ him. [[14.40]] Jenei was a senior police officer in 2006, when the current governing parties said that there was a rampage of unscrupulousness and violence. It's possible that Jenei was conducting a police attack on those who, according to the government's rhetoric, were the victims of eye-shooting. Previously, even the Pesti Guys, who could not be accused of opposition bias, wrote about Zoltán Jenei in response to his earlier mandate from Viktor Orbán, that Gyurcsány's fallen secretary of state was placed in the chancellor's seat at the University of Pécs. So the question arises: why is the closure of hospitals entrusted to a person, the destruction of small-town hospitals, who was Peter Gergényi's trusted man? Doesn't Viktor Orbán's memories of 2006 seem to be at odds with this? How many flashers does the Orbán government rehabilitate, and what important positions does it entrust them with? And in the end, why does the government even want to make life impossible for rural patients? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause on the opposition side.]]
u2021-11-08-43	Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-44	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Decommissioning in health is always a left-wing policy, honourable Member. Although you did not support next year's budget here in Parliament, you will spend HUF 770 billion more on health care next year than this year, and we will increase health resources by two and a half times overall. At the beginning of next year, we will also increase the wages of nurses and doctors, increase the wages of nurses by 21 per cent compared to this year's wage by 30 per cent compared to 2018 and increase the wages of doctors by two and a half times in a multi-annual wage increase programme. So there's more for both operation and wages in health care than what the left did. As regards their relationship to 2006 and, to say the exact opposites, honourable Member, Ferenc Gyurcsány told your party partner, Márton Gyöngyösi, who was a former colleague of yours, that "New Nazi boy," a representative of man-made filth, along with his party. And now you're asking this Ferenc Gyurcsány for his list and begging for a place to fall to enter the next parliament. Your party partner, Gábor Pál's fellow Member, said: "If the Jobbik were to join the DK, which could never happen, I would not be able to look in the mirror. That means all the mirrors in the party headquarters and party offices have been removed, honourable Member. Then again, a quote from Peter James: "The mocking of democracy is that after the events of 2006, the sinner who beats people to pulp is not the sinner who gives the order, not the sinner who lies the star off the sky as prime minister, but the sinner who makes it so. After that, you and Ferenc Gyurcsány got together, asked for his list. You said recently that Fidesz is ashamed that Ferenc Gyurcsány can smile in our faces [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Try to answer!]] And now you're smiling at a poster with Ferenc Gyurcsány, Your Honour. [[Zoltán Balczó: Get to the point!]] I don't know if the key to the party headquarters has been handed over to Ferenc Gyurcsány to decide who can and can't go in. What did György Szilágyi, your fellow Member, who is not here in Parliament now, say about Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev and Antal Apró? The Jobbik doesn't have enough to put the guilty in jail, we want total accountability. Then when Ferenc Gyurcsány is removed from the villa of Gyurcsány, we can say that the accountability has begun. Tiny Antal got shot here in Kossuth Square, he gave the order to fire, responsible for the deaths of hundreds of people. But what happened 50 years later? Fifty years later, the first man to get shot in the crowd since 56 is called Ferenc Gyurcsány, and he is still sitting next to us in this Parliament. We want the former Communist leaders [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Armored Car!]] Get out of public life. And what happened 15 years ago, honourable Member? You remember 1956 together with Antal Apró's grandson Klára Dobrev [[Zoltán Balczó: Talk about hospitals!]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Armored Car!]] Get out of public life. And what happened 15 years ago, honourable Member? You remember 1956 together with Antal Apró's grandson Klára Dobrev (Zoltán Balczó: Talk about hospitals!) October 23rd. Did you ever think, as a young betterman, that one day your representatives will be presented on the website of the Hungarian Socialist Party? Thought you were a young right-hander (Daniel Z. Carpathian: Armored car!) That one day he will remember the 23rd of October with Klára Dobrev, the grandson of Antal Apró? Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian, how embarrassing!]]
u2021-11-08-45	I'll return the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-11-08-46	Thank you very much. That is exactly the hypocritical answer I expected from the Secretary of State. It is your policy to say something and to do a high school of hypocrisy. You are the ones who are building private health with the people of the past, such as János Kóka, and you will only have the option to do your surgery in such a place if you can afford it if you have any money. You and the people of the past are building private health. The other thing is that you destroy public health with the people of the past because you gave the task of squashing hospitals to an eyeball commander who wouldn't have a place in public, and it's your boss who's putting him there, who's paid public money for small-town hospitals, like the hospital in Karcag, the Grandpa, the Island or the other hospitals, who should be beaten up just because you have to make decent money. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It's completely unscrupulous and hypocritical, what you're doing, respected... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2021-11-08-47	Your time is up, Congressman. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This is a cheap hypocrisy and deception! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] Still, your time is up. Have a seat. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz to Dr. László György Lukács: Do you accept the answer?]] I explained that the congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow, as in any other case. Now, Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, will follow with his interpellation. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Minister, and presumably the Secretary of State acting on his behalf, I would like to start by saying that János Áder made a very good and remarkable announcement at the Glasgow Climate Summit that, from 2030 onwards, there will be only electric buses for public transport in Hungary. I trust that this was done with the knowledge and agreement of the government, as this is a radical turnaround in the relations between the Hungarian government, the capital and the local authorities, since so far they have prevented the local authorities from making their own decisions. In the case of Budapest, this has gone so far as to prevent even borrowing, which would make it more modern, more community-friendly, much greener, more transparent and transparent transport in Budapest, since, to add, green buses and electric buses are not only a huge step forward in the field of emissions, but also a huge step forward in terms of maintenance costs if this were to happen. That is why I ask you, Minister of State, to answer the simple question that János Áder has made this declaration with your consent, to support the fact that from 2030 onwards there will be only electric buses in public transport, what this means in the case of Budapest, what program will be launched to help such modern green buses to run in Budapest, which would be a huge step forward both in terms of environmental protection and in terms of budget. What we have seen so far is that you are breaking into the municipalities, distracting their resources, especially in the case of opposition leaders, especially in the case of Budapest, because we have seen well what you have done with Gergely Christmas and the Municipality of Budapest. Therefore, I expect a clear answer to support when and what programme is being launched in this regard. I would ask Mr Secretary of State to give a clear answer to this, not to jumble, but to see what kind of programme will be launched, when this procedure will be launched, when it will help to borrow the capital, and at all, how they stand on this issue, or at the Glasgow Climate Summit alone, this announcement was intended to reassure the international public. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-49	I give the floor to the State Secretary of the Ministry for Interpelled Innovation and Technology, János Schanda Tamás. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-50	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Speaking of local governments and municipal resources, allow me to remind you that it was your government, the left-wing government, that has indebted the municipalities, that drove the municipalities into a debt of HUF 1,400 billion, honourable Member. You were a municipal man before, so you know exactly what that meant to the settlements. It is quite outrageous that after that this source had to be given to the national civilian government to the municipalities so that they would not go bankrupt throughout the country. So I ask more restraint from you, honourable Member, when you make critical statements about municipal finances. I agree with you, however, when you say that Budapest is unable to replace its bus park. The fact is that precisely the leadership of Budapest, Gergely Christmas, is unable not only to do this, but also to do a lot of other things. It is unable to manage the Budapest corks, it is unable to maintain order and purity in the capital of the country, it is unable to do anything beyond Facebook posts and climate circles for our environmental heritage, and indeed it is worse than that, honourable Member, because it is either dilettantism or deliberately breaking down the results so far. [[14.50]] It removes 25 percent of the public dumpsters, make it trashier in Budapest; quite strange behavior. But you can't handle public money well, your mayor. Only the renovation of the Chain Bridge costs 6 billion forints more, it costs at least 36 electric buses. And he can't concentrate on running the city, or at least he's tired of focusing on running the city. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, the national civilian government provides more than HUF 38 billion for the program and the purchase of electric taxis, and, of course, there is still work to be done, but, as you said, it seems that Gergely Christmas is unable to solve this. The government already supports the appearance of electric buses in Budapest as well, as you claim, and that is why 40 world-class, brand-new electric buses arrive from Széll Kálmán tér and the blue Volán-bus line from the circular area. The government's priority is also to make Hungary a climate neutral country by 2050, which is why it supports the greening of transport, including the modernisation of bus fleets. The Green Bus programme is a program that was decided by the Hungarian government a year and a half ago and is part of the climate and nature conservation action plan, as we all know that the transport sector is responsible for nearly one fifth of the Hungarian CO2 emissions, so the Green Bus programme is doing a lot to protect the environment. In addition to the resources already mentioned and made available, new calls for proposals are expected in the coming years, where bus fleets can be renewed and modernised in more cities, and we plan to put hundreds of thousands of electric buses on the market. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-08-51	I'll ask Congressman, he'll take the answer.
u2021-11-08-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, the paper form came in, and I was rooting for you, Mr. Secretary of State, so that I could accept the answer, because that would have meant that this electric bus program would actually be launched, and that Budapest could have better buses. However, it is your responsibility that this cannot happen. I see that the government of Peter Márki-Zay will do what we expected you to do. I would just like to note, Mr Secretary of State, that among the biggest debtors, Hódmezővásárhely, Debrecen and Kaposvár were local governments. So when we talk about what the government you call civilized consolidated and how it improved the situation of the municipalities, it helped your representatives and party leaders in the first place. I cannot accept your answer for this, but I am disappointed, because it would be a common matter, the issue of electric buses, which would transcend ideologies, but unfortunately do not contribute to this. Thank you. I do not accept the answer, and I hope that this situation will be resolved in spite of this.
u2021-11-08-53	Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. On behalf of Prime Minister Prime Minister, the Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, which is competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-54	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I don't know how you could've missed the fact that there's an angry car park outside the gas station, suppliers and everyone else who's begging for flying salts to black out. This may have happened because you may have missed the cost of fuel, because there are members of the government who now fly two planes at a time, there are people who drive helicopters, and we also see that they are also fidesz politicians for a team with luxury yachts the size of a football field. However, for the majority of Hungarians, it is no longer a question of whether they eat or drive, because they are either one or the other. The Orbán government is adding to all this by continuing to lie. With regard to the record high fuel price, it was said in the government info that the Orbán government has not increased the rate of excise duty in the last ten years. We've known since then that this is not factually the case, but to understand what I'm talking about, you're lying. There have been several tax increases in both diesel and petrol, even if that is what you would like to forget. The record weak forint, the Europe record inflation, the failing exchange rate policy, the huge government deficit and the brutal government debt led to the fact that petrol 95 costs 506 forints and gas oil costs 517 forints per litre, and I have just arrived on the highway, and I have been paying attention to a well where fuel prices are well over 600 forints per litre. As we know, the price of fuel through transportation will sooner or later appear in the price of food. What does that mean? Bread will be even more expensive, dairy, meat, fruit and vegetables will be even more expensive. All you have to do is go to the market and look at those desperate pensioners and see what they can buy from their pension right now. Dear Secretary of State, In addition to total insensitiveness and robbery, we know very well that the Orbán government has another habit of ringing. Well, let's do this. Therefore, we recommend that you keep Gyurcsány days at the gas stations, when you will have to pay 257 HUF for one litre of petrol at 2009 prices and only 252 HUF for one litre of gas oil. We are convinced that decent Hungarian people are now crying back the fuel prices under the Gyurcsány government, because at nearly half of today's price, it was possible to obtain a litre of petrol and diesel. Secretary of State, the question is simple, simple as the woods: how long will the Hungarians be robbed with the brutal petrol price? When will the taxes on fuel finally be reduced? Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2021-11-08-55	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2021-11-08-56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is true that fuel prices are increasing, inflation is higher, the price of other products is also in Hungary, but this is also true of other countries. This is not a Hungarian specialty, it is the result of the international economic process after the crisis. I know that, of course, that you or you do not have to take note of this, because in opposition there is nothing to be taken into account that is responsible for this country, only to say what it has planned. To say that people cry back the Gyurcsány period, I think that's a brave statement. It is a courageous statement, since it was also a crisis at the time, people's incomes have fallen. His income was reduced: the 13th month's salary was withdrawn, pensioners were reduced, they were able to buy less of everything, so they could buy less fuel. It's different now. The fact is that, with the rise in income since 2013, it is clearly increasing in real value, salaries and pensions are increasing in real value. It is true that petrol is now more expensive, but almost double the amount of fuel you can buy from an average income or pension compared to 2004. Honourable Congressman, The government is investigating the high fuel prices due to what can be done. It examines international examples, such as the Romanian, Croatian example, where the freezing was chosen. Here, however, when fuel prices are frozen, it should be known that this is a temporary period and then released and market prices will return. It's not worth the freeze if it gets much higher after the freeze, the fuel price. The government is looking at the possibility of reducing VAT, but there are rather serious EU rules and barriers here, as the VAT system itself is the European Union's way of saying how and how it is possible. The government is also investigating the reduction in excise duty. [[Dr. László György Lukács: It is not necessary to examine, but to reduce!]] Here, too, the European Union should be allowed to further reduce the rate of excise duty. Otherwise, the rate of excise duty is the lowest in Hungary for EU countries. Hungary is the only country where, under certain conditions, the rate of excise duty is reduced. No other country has done that. [[15.00]] Honourable Congressman, Furthermore, the possibility of reducing the trade margin is also examined by the government. Of these four options, the government will decide in the near future on the basis of thorough study and arguments, arguments, interests of the country, economic interests and a comparison of people's interests. One thing is certain that, based on what Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for the eternal Prime Minister, said that price regulation is a communist idea, the government will not decide, but will decide on its own arguments and their experiences. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-57	I'll give the floor back to the congressman in return.
u2021-11-08-58	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I tried to decode your response in four minutes, but I have to admit, it didn't work. He probably said it in a language that is only understandable to the members of the government, but not to honest Hungarian people. I don't know when you last went to the gas station, but it's worth going out there and asking people how they feel about the Fidesz government and the price of gas. It is quite disastrous to hear opinions there, and I must add that there are not only opponents gasping, but also pro-government voters. Secretary of State, what are you talking about? What are you investigating? Tell me. Mr. Secretary, your head has been fried by the sun. We don't know when this might be from the summer. What's there to look at? We simply need to reduce taxes. You're not trying to be a slug, you're trying to pin everything on the EU for a change. You're responsible for this situation, you steal money from people's pockets, you don't cut taxes on fuel, and because of you, it's... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] inflation is extremely high. I don't accept the answer.
u2021-11-08-59	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman didn't accept the answer. Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2021-11-08-60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, According to last year's data, there are more than 38 thousand apartments currently owned by the municipality in Budapest, most of which are III., VIII. and IX. is located in a district. Most of them have one or two bedrooms, and their average surface area is 49,3 square meters. Most of these are all comfortable or comfortable, but more than 20 percent are still in a low comfort category. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Of the 38,000 properties, due to their extremely poor physical condition, 3700 apartments are currently empty. This means that nearly 10 percent of all municipal-owned apartments are not in use at the moment. Most of the empty apartments are VIII. It is in the district, where it accounts for 20% of all apartments, the IX. And that's 17 percent in the district. Many families, so many children live in moldy, water-walled or crumbling plastered flats, and in several places the bathroom is also on the gang, which is in common use. I think, and I hope, that there is no debate between us in this regard, that in Hungary, the 21st edition of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the first century, families cannot live in such conditions. Immediate action is needed because in many cases the children of these families are at risk of health because of the circumstances. This problem is not limited to a district of Budapest or to the capital itself, but, of course, we are talking about a national problem, which needs a national solution. The joint opposition programme clearly commits itself to the need to build rent homes and to the substantial, high-quality renovation of existing municipal dwellings. Of course, central budgetary resources must be provided for this. With the aid of one and a half billion forints of state aid in the two districts of Budapest, this objective would be achieved by 2022, as according to the bill that I am submitting, with the support of one and a half billion dollars from next year's budget, local government rentals could be refurbished in a way that the municipality would distribute the aid to the residents, who would undertake the renovation of these apartments. This subsidy would amount to HUF 3 million per family, and the detailed rules would be laid down by the body of representatives of the municipality. This could also encourage people to include both their personal resources and their own work in the renovation of these apartments. Thus, in a very, very short period of time, the quality and comfort of these apartments can be improved. Based on preliminary calculations, in four years, the entire Budapest tenement would be renewable. So the problem is pressing, we have to act until any other program is in place. My question is that the bill that I am presenting on this issue will be supported by the government and will be supported by the Members. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-11-08-61	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. Mr. Deputy Minister, please.
u2021-11-08-62	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If I may, I would like to begin with a brief reflection on what happened during your ally, the Socialist Government, in the matter of family support and home creation. Firstly, the socialist governments tightened the conditions for housing support from 2003 onwards, limited the tax relief for housing loans and even withdrawn the preferential interest rate on housing loans, and completely abolished in 2007. In 2009, the Socpol and interest rate subsidies were completely abolished, essentially bleeding out the housing support system at that time. You know what they did instead? Well, you know, people were led to a foreign exchange loan, because that was in the interest of the Gyurcsány government at the time. Two million people were forced to take on foreign exchange loans, bringing the country into a serious social and economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What did the Fidesz government start with? He started by eliminating the foreign currency credit system you introduced. As long as the country is in the foreign exchange credit system, a large part of the family cannot look forward, as with the significant rise in the exchange rate, families are in a situation that, not only did not allow for planning, but also threatened their daily livelihood. When this happened, and for several years we stopped lending foreign currency and led it out, we could then start planning how to help families. The first was the introduction of a family home-building discount on 1 July 2015. This has already been used by 195 thousand families in the amount of HUF 621 billion. The family support system was then developed year after year, and something was always added. For example, the village discount of people living in small settlements, which was already spent at HUF 110 billion until the end of September 2021. But this is the tax refund subsidy, which was used for HUF 15 billion. Such is the repayment discount and support, which was also used for billions of HUF. On 1 January 2021, the government extended its support for home creation with a reduced tax rate or the possibility for families with children to buy a new apartment free of charge. And by granting a tax exemption to families requiring a CSOK. There is a long list of other aid extensions, such as the home renovation programme on 1 January 2021, which has already been requested for HUF 105 billion. After that, to say that the government has not done everything in Budapest or in the countryside to enable families to live in their own homes, to build, buy or renovate a family home, I do not think it is true. I suggest that you monitor and support the government's home-building support programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-63	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the answer. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-64	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Secretary, I cannot accept your answer because you have not answered my specific question. What you said, on a scale ranging from inaccuracies to lies, was very much, from the fact that it was the Orbán government that introduced foreign currency loans, obviously you remember that. You were talking about what happened, and I wanted to talk about what was going to happen. I am very sorry that you have not given an answer to the families who live under the conditions I mentioned in my speech. [[15.10]] What are we gonna do from 2022? We will keep the existing good family subsidies and housing subsidies, we will expand them, we will also reduce the rent prices, we will launch a substantial rental renovation and construction programme, the municipalities will also receive back the funds they have taken in this regard, and yes, although the fate of my bill is, I think you can see that you are [[The president's ringing the bell.]] No response, but we're going to launch that program...
u2021-11-08-65	Congresswoman...
u2021-11-08-66	...that allows families to renovate their homes immediately.
u2021-11-08-67	... I'd like your answer, please.
u2021-11-08-68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-08-69	Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. Political pressure on the banking sector? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-70	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Looks like the Treasury Department is acting like a mob, blackmailing and threatening. Júlia Király, former Vice-President of the National Bank, former economic policy expert at Fidesz, member of the Board of Directors of a Hungarian banking group, claims that he received a threatening message from the government from the banking group where he worked, and one of the heads of the Ministry threatened the banking group just because Júlia Király spoke at a opposition event. The government has not refuted this information, so that means that the threat, blackmail, is real; or to put it in legal language: abuse of office, manipulation of influence, suspicion of coercion, all of which may arise here, in this case. It seems to you that now it is not only the wiretap, the surveillance, but also the blackmail and the threat that, when it comes to an opposition figure, it is someone who does not agree with the government's policy. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is what will be next, so after that there has been observation, threat, spreading lies about the various public actors, what will be the next retaliation of opposition public figures, which will affect those who do not agree with the government's policy. Of course, they don't just do it in the business sector and do it to the public, because they make a lot of people impossible, directors, actors or even successful entrepreneurs. On this basis, Mr Secretary of State, please tell me who is behind the pressure just detailed by the Ministry of Finance, who has instructed us to do so, how common it is for the Ministry of Finance to act against Hungarian companies in political interest, blackmail them, threaten them, and in recent months let us talk about, say, 2021, these are current, perhaps remember how many of these recommendations have been made. So, when you didn't like a person in a company, how many of these cases have you dealt with such a recommendation and threat? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-11-08-71	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-11-08-72	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Well, Congressman, you're full of shit. I don't think you know what you're saying or what you're accusing me of, who you're accusing me of. By the way, it's amazing that you're using Parliament to hurt a non-public figure, to violate labour law, which you've decided on your own, to bring here, and you're putting it on a political level, and that's what you're trying to enforce. Because here is the statement: a person, if I may, will not say his name, because he is not a public figure, he says:... he has announced that he wishes to resign from the director's post for personal reasons. It is not that he was removed, fired, removed by his employer; he himself chose. And why he decided to do that, ask him. It's likely that after his actions, he read this bank's ethical code. It is included in the Code of Ethics that, in the position in which he is and in others, he must be neutral, it must not be essentially political declaration. And whether he did or didn't do it, you know that's how he or others decided to do it. This personal labour law decision has nothing to do with the Ministry of Finance. The Treasury Department never blackmails anyone, and doesn't ask a single bank, a legal entity, for any such case. However, I can tell you that someone else with whom you are in league, or your boss, or I don't know, is your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who has done this before; he has done this in public, blackmailing, hurting, threatening people who have made public appearances, or other allies who have done such things as have been prone to threats. The thing is, it's not the style of the government, and it's certainly not the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance's cooperation with banks, banking associations is good, excellent, we always discuss decisions that concern them, and, of course, there are conflicts of interest, but we only make it so that the parties concerned know about it. The relationship between the Ministry of Finance and the bank in Hungary is particularly excellent, and the Minister of Finance has just met with the bank's CEO this weekend and has had warm negotiations. But it's true for the other banks, too. The fact is that we have had a difficult time when the banking sector has made extraordinary contributions, for example, to health protection, to the control of the epidemic, or to the use of online transfers of funds, credit claims, mortgage systems, and decisions could be taken on a negotiated basis. And the same is true of the introduction of the credit moratorium, where the bank agreed. So it is not true that the government either the Ministry of Finance is blackmailing or demanding or not; it cooperates with the banking sector [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] and decisions concerning the economy are taken jointly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-73	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-74	Thank you for the floor. Well, Mr. Secretary, I don't know where you've been these last few days. That's exactly the public figure I told you about, telling you what happened here specifically, round pretzels, threatening the bank, and that's why he had to resign to protect his own bank. I'm happy if you deny it. There's been a report in the case, so let's hope we find out. Let's just say, I'd like to know if one of the people, let's say, had spoken at the peace procession, the Treasury Department would have done the same thing, but we'll find out. Secretary of State, they are not the tough ones who threaten power and abuse power, and they are using it to enforce interests. They're tougher, they're much tougher, they're resistant to this pressure, and they're much tougher than you are. I don't accept your answer.
u2021-11-08-75	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Member therefore did not accept the reply of the Deputy Minister. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the families:. By what decisions does the Government help the Hungarian pensioners to make a living? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]]
u2021-11-08-76	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! In 2010, Fidesz and its ally, KDNP, promised that during the Orbán government, the purchasing value of pensions would not decrease, and we even said that we would preserve its value and help them if we could. That's what we've done. In addition to the fact that we have raised pensions twice a year, this is enshrined in the law, right, for the first time in line with expected inflation, then for the second time in a year plus, because expected inflation does not always coincide with actual inflation, so for many years we have been able to protect the integrity of pensions. [[15.20]] But not only are we protecting and protecting pensioners and pensions by raising pensions, but also, for example, the reduction of rent, which is particularly useful for all families, including pensioners, of course. We are particularly proud of the reduction in electricity, because before 2010, during the Gyurcsány governments, the price of gas was tripled and the electricity doubled. The strengthening of families also affects pensioners, because we not only think in one person but also have a family policy, so the reduction of taxes, the CSOK, the freedom of young people under the age of 25, are all designed to strengthen families. It is also interesting that, meanwhile, the opposition is constantly attacking these measures. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, what measures are being taken to improve the standard of living of pensioners today, in these weeks. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-77	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary Secretary Róbert Zsigó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, thank you for bringing up this important issue here in Parliament, because it is our duty to respect and respect the elderly, to appreciate the work that has been done in the past decades for the sake of our country. We all remember that this was not always the case, because in the years before 2010, in the period of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, older people were not valued. They significantly reduced the purchasing value of their pensions, took away their 13th month pension overnight, and thus pushed them into financial uncertainty, and, as you said, they skyrocketed the overhead, putting the elderly in a difficult position and poverty. We do not make sound promises, but we help older people with concrete measures. Today, a Hungarian pensioner can feel respected not only because, after his hard working years, he is not fooled by hundreds of tricks, but also because he receives real living and appreciation. Hungary has been restarted by working together in recent months, the economic downturn experienced worldwide has been smaller and shorter in Hungary, and GDP is also rising as a result of economic policy measures, resulting in a faster return to normal economic life, and Hungary became one of the nine EU countries where economic performance exceeded the level before the Crown Virus crisis in early September. As a result, this week in November, each of our elderly countrymen will receive a pension premium of HUF 80,000 in addition to the pension correction, and we are working to return the 13th month pension taken by the left at the beginning of 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With the pensioners, as you mentioned, we concluded an agreement in 2010, in which we promised that, as long as Hungary has a national government, the purchasing value of their pension will remain. In recent years, we have also demonstrated that we stand by the fact that the purchasing value of pensions has increased by more than 10 percent since 2010 and has increased by about 1.5 times in nominal terms. Over the past four years, pensioners have received HUF 220 billion in extra payments, and pensioners have also benefited from economic success in 2017-18 and 19 respectively. In 2016, the elderly received Erzsébet's voucher in 17 and 18, and in September 2019 all Hungarian pensioners received a voucher worth nine thousand forints. By today, more than 320,000 women could retire after 40 years of entitlement, and we have left money for the elderly with multiple reductions. The public burdens of retired workers are more favourable than ever before. If the self-employed pensioner does work in any legal relationship, as of 1 July 2020 his income from the work will be charged only 15 per cent of personal income tax, he will not have to pay any individual contributions. In addition, we are punishing crimes against the elderly more severely. Dear Parliament, It is clear from what I have said that it is important for us to appreciate and protect older people, and as I have said, [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] the payment of the pension premium, which is higher than ever, begins this week. The pensioners can still count on us. Thank you very much for your attention and patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-79	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We agree that the appreciation of the elderly, our parents and our grandparents is extremely important, which is why it is important that we talk about it as often as possible here in Parliament, in plenary. Fortunately, and in line with our work, the Secretary of State was able to give a long list of measures to help pensioners. Such is the preservation of the value of pensions with annual increases in pensions, such as the reduction of the rent, such as the pension premium that the Secretary of State spoke about, which the Orbán government can give first in accordance with the circumstances. Under the circumstances, I mean that while the Crown Virus has been a major problem in many countries of the developed West, we can still support the elderly in Hungary. I accept the answer, thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-81	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-08-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The real and credible environmental protection of the Hungarian government has concrete steps and tangible results: we first adopted the Paris climate agreement, we committed ourselves to achieving climate neutrality by 2050, and we reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 percent by 2030. We can be proud of the climate and nature conservation action plan, which summarised in eight points what steps are needed, among other things, to ensure that by 2030 the energy produced in Hungary is 90% carbon-free. However, the above results can only be achieved if the costs are borne not by the Hungarian families, but by the large polluters, but by Brussels' unthinkable energy and climate policy would lead to a tax increase. Protect our environment and the results of the reduction of the rent so far! In Glasgow, a week ago, the UN Climate Conference COP26 was launched, where world leaders discuss how to return to the target of Paris in 2015 and keep global warming below one and a half degrees Celsius. As President János Áder said on the opening day of the conference, there is a need for a sincere reckoning of the results of each country and action must be taken instead of public relations. As he stressed, Glasgow is not only about increasing ambition, but also about regaining credibility, action and the results as soon as possible. In addition to the EU climate neutrality targets planned for 2050, the reduction of energy prices for the population and the issue of energy security must be kept in mind when deciding on the development of an energy policy for a sovereign country. For this reason, we stand firmly over and over again in favour of the financial cover needed to achieve climate targets, not for families, but for climate destroyers, as they are the ones who are making a profit on this. We have also been confirmed by the Hungarian people, as we have asked their opinion in the context of a national consultation, and 99 percent of the fillers have agreed with this government position. Brussels is preparing to tax people with a complex system that would increase the costs of Hungarian families, and we want Hungarian families not to have to pay extra costs for this. Therefore, Hungary, together with the Visegrád countries, does not accept Brussels' initiative, as these, we are well aware, would lead to a further increase in energy prices. Europe has been facing high energy prices that have not been experienced for a long time, and there has been an increase in overhead prices in all European countries outside Hungary. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State how the Hungarian Government protects the results of the reduction of the rent. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.30]]
u2021-11-08-83	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State, Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The national civilian government continues to defend the interests of the Hungarian people, thus protecting the results of the reduction of rent, of course. This government is, in fact, the government's government for reducing the costs of gas, electricity and district heating by 25 percent in 13 and 14 respectively. For this reason, people pay the lowest gas and lowest electricity prices in Budapest, looking at all the capitals in the European Union today. And we can all remember, honourable Member, the left is irresponsible and the country is on the verge of bankruptcy, their governance. The left never cared about the interests of the Hungarian people, they played the Hungarian utility companies in foreign hands and allowed these companies to profit from the Hungarian families. The price of gas was tripled by left-wing politicians, and the electricity doubled. That's what they did, that's what they did. During the governance of the left, there were 15 increases in overhead, and the Hungarian people paid the most for gas and electricity in the European Union, not the least now. Moreover, we cannot even say that these left-wing politicians would have changed, because we can see that their Prime Minister-designate, Péter Márki-Zay, is now violently attacking the reduction of the rent. I'm just saying, I'm quoting the cost reduction was a stupid thing to do. He's cynically saying things, saying things like people would rather use less water, less gas, less electricity. It's a real, virtigli left-wing policy that this Prime Minister candidate is running. But it supports Brussels' energy price raising plans and constantly does nothing but demand market price regulation, which would mean that energy prices would rise again in Hungary, including electricity and electricity, of course. According to the Left Prime Minister's candidate, maximizing the overhead costs is a real communist idea. That's what they say on the left! That's what they say here, the parliamentary representatives of the Parliament, are saying to the left. They have chosen such a candidate for Prime Minister, who clearly admits that the reduction of the rent must be abolished, and the Hungarian people must again pay dearly for electricity and gas. That is why we have a task and responsibility, because it is clear that the left would continue to follow the same Gyurcsányist policy as they did during their pre-2010 governance. We must have no doubt that the results of the reduction in the costs would be abolished. On the other hand, our position is clear and clear: we do not want Hungarian people to have to pay for the damage caused by climate destroyers. And we are well aware that, in addition to the attacks on the left, the results of the reduction of the rent are constantly being attacked from Brussels. Brussels, referring to climate change, as you said, wants to impose more and more taxes on us; it wants to add taxes on families who have either an apartment or a car. This is also the way in which the results of the reduction in overhead costs are attacked. They do this because they have pursued and pursued an unthinkable energy policy. But we're not gonna let that happen, we're gonna protect the results of the reduction of the rent. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] from both the left and Brussels. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-85	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll take the answer.
u2021-11-08-86	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. We have three tasks ahead of us. On the one hand, the carbon neutrality of the energy sector cannot be achieved without nuclear power, so it is extremely important to protect Paks developments and, on the other hand, to recognise and recognise nuclear energy with the European Union. The V4 countries are our allies in this. And indeed: to protect the achievement of the reduction of the rent, because the stability of the overhead and energy supply means security for the Hungarian population. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-87	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman accepted the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Hungarian Zoltán, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Did they give up on domestic livestock farming? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-08-88	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Well, you're doing everything you can to report the success of field crops. Whether it is the Minister's annual hearing before the committee meeting or the Parliament's replies, if we think about it, we have the same experience. Let's face it, there are really positive figures here that can be reported, although the good world is about to end, and you know very well that last year's inputs prices were able to produce arable crops this year, and they have already received practically the increased price for their crops. Let's just think that fertilizer has increased three to four times, and we are not even talking about the price of gas oil, because today this has been said several times between Parliament's walls, and we are also very well aware of the increase in pesticides that has already been made. But now let's move on to more current problems. Let's talk livestock. Due to the surge in feed prices, animal diseases and market anomalies caused by the Covid epidemic, the pig sector is virtually devastated, and I am not only claiming it, but also the farmers claim it, but for example the Association of Hungarian Zookeepers has made a call for help to the government. What have you done? I am thinking of concrete steps towards the profession here. On the one hand, the sector's potential for support was increased by a quarter, payments had been made in advance, partly and interest-free loans were offered. Well, there was a lot more to the keepers than that when the grocery store blew in that he was preparing for a series of steps. Adding these three steps together, it was not enough to at least recover the losses they had suffered so far. It is not that their situation has stabilized in substance. And you know very well that they can now sell pork at a loss of over 100 forints, and I'm telling you now for a kilo-by-pound projection. This is clearly not sustainable, and it is not expected at all for any producer to do so in the long term. Well, the question arises, then, that you can understand the whole sector being served to two players here in Hungary, two close-to-government actors. The question is whether you will understand the cooperative model, which could be substantially supported within the EU framework, with the intention of keeping it away from producers. What series of steps are they planning to take in order to eat more, to consume more Hungarian pork, and to keep these families on their feet? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-08-89	Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-11-08-90	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, As a result of the global crisis caused by the corona virus, as well as the specific weather and international agricultural market effects, a significant increase in feed prices has been and is taking place all over the world. The increase in energy and oil is also driven by global economic processes, which are a challenge for all farmers around the world. Hungary has indicated several times, but the European Commission does not see time to take market measures to alleviate the crisis of livestock farmers, including pig farmers, despite the growing crisis. In view of the situation, we do not have time to delay, so the government has raised the planned HUF 16.8 billion framework for animal welfare measures by an additional HUF 4.4 billion, and we have decided to increase the amount of temporary support for animal welfare support for pigs, which again amounts to HUF 2 billion. The payment of this item and animal welfare aid for breeding sows will start this year, which will provide a great deal of assistance to livestock farmers. Hungary has introduced the agricultural crisis insurance system, which provides effective assistance in the event of unforeseen reductions in producer incomes. The system is used to eliminate animal and plant diseases, market prices, market loss and loss of exchange rate. Animal keepers are currently supported by a number of credit schemes, but we have started to develop a new loan scheme for the pig sector that can help manage losses caused by drastic increases in feed prices and the need to deal with increased working capital financing. [[15.40]] Up to now, some HUF 475 billion has been allocated to measures directly affecting livestock farmers. The Agricultural Ministry contributes to mitigating the effects of international market processes through complex agricultural policy instruments, income replacement aids, preferential loans, efficient and modern risk management systems and investment aid to improve the financial situation of livestock owners. I would particularly like to point out that, as a result of the developments, the competitiveness of producers will continue to increase, and we hope that Hungarian livestock production will return to growth, beyond the present challenging situation. Honourable Congressman, In response to the thoughts you have raised, the government will do its utmost not only to the thoughts raised by you, but also to the requests made by farmers. Therefore, these forms of support, these opportunities, are true, let us be honest, for a farmer, a sow or a fattening farm, these are all serious challenges, but the agricultural government will help them in all things. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-08-91	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the reply of the Deputy Minister.
u2021-11-08-92	Thank you for the floor. Well, it's hard for me to accept it, but it would have taken a lot more than that. On the one hand, to blame this story on the European Commission, I beg you, if the Hungarian government had a better international view in the European Union, it might be able to lobby for livestock keepers. And now you're going to start working on some kind of package to save them? Well, the problems have already started in the summer, and these signals have been felt, and they have come to you, if nothing else, on my part. And why don't you really think about a kind of Western model now, where the zookeepers can work together in an alliance, they own the processing plant, the sale? Such systems are much more resilient to such market crises, we all know that. Unfortunately, it also explains why they are not helped in this alliance. Because, as I have already mentioned, the entire sector has been specifically allocated to two operators. So I can't accept it. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-08-93	Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. If there is still contact research that is not available, then we should start with journalists, because I went to Munich after that, so I saw journalists in Hungary with the title. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, commissioned the Minister of Human Resources. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If there is no contact research, then we should start with journalists, because then I went to Munich, so I last saw the journalists in Hungary. The quote above comes from Gergely Gulyás, who, at the time of his declaration to the RTL News, said the words quoted above in the light of his own coronal virus infection. With this statement, Minister, he admitted that today one of Hungary's most basic administrative steps to control the epidemic, contact research, is not being carried out despite the alarming development of the daily infected. However, the situation of contact research was far from rosy. At the end of 2020, my colleague Tamás Harangozó submitted a request for data in the public interest to the Prime Minister's Office, in which he wanted to find out how many people do contact research in Hungary, since contact research was organised with the Budapest and county government offices, the minister of which is Gergely Gulyás. In the first instance, the Prime Minister's Office denied even that it would be a controller at all in relation to the activities of its own government agencies, and then, under pressure from NAIH, admitted that they did not have any data on the number of contacts conducted in Hungary. This shows a complete lack of central organization, and it is an eloquent proof that where there was meaningful contact research, it really depended on the ability and professionalism of local employees. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, and I am very sorry that he does not answer my question at a conference which was on 23 March 2021 entitled "Quality of Hungarian Legislation," he acknowledged that the Government does not put too much effort into preparing decisions, but rather prefers to try their ideas in practice. This, on the other hand, Minister of State, can be measured in human lives in Hungary today. That is why I am asking you, Mr Secretary of State: how many people have been involved in contact research in Hungary on 1 September 2020 broken down by district? Why don't you do contact research with an infected number of over 4,000 a day? Was the method described by Balázs Orbán used to control the epidemic? Instead of designing merit, the emphasis was on practical attempts, Mr. Secretary of State. Secretary of State, I said that today we can measure in human lives in Hungary how the Orbán government handles the epidemic situation. I think it would have been good for the Minister himself to be here or at least one of his State Secretarys, but I hope that I will get a meaningful answer from you now. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-08-95	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2021-11-08-96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We also see on the news that there is another fourth wave of the coronal virus epidemic in many countries around us. We saw what this caused in Romania a few weeks ago, but we also saw in the last few days that the sad record was broken in Germany, as the largest number of infected people per 100,000 inhabitants was 197, and a few days ago, unfortunately, another higher number was shown by the statistics office there, the Robert Koch Institute, with 201. Thus, even in Germany, the daily number of infected people is higher than in any wave of the epidemic, so it is important to act as effectively as possible, since every person's life, every person's health, must be protected and protected. We can see young people, old people, people living in small towns, people living in large settlements, and we can see in other countries, east of us, and west of us, that many countries in this wave are more infected than before. What is our best chance of protecting as many people as possible? What is our best means of reducing the consequences of the coronal virus epidemic? That is, if as many people are protected as possible, they are vaccinated. On the other hand, you still maintain your proposal for a decision, and anyone on Parliament's website can see that there is no Chinese vaccine in Hungary, honourable Member; your group leader, Bertalan Tóth, said that we should not hope for vaccines falling from trucks, but that we should give people safety. In fact, István Ujhelyi, your MEP, instead of making sure that the processes in Brussels are faster and that all European countries have more of them, he talked about the fact that there are never-extinct crimes for which those affected will be responsible sooner or later, but in any case, such are separate procurements of devices and vaccines during a coronal virus epidemic. During the time of the outbreak, you were busy attacking and attacking the various areas of protection, but that Hungary bought self-injected hand sanitizer, self-built masks, self-buying protective equipment or medicine or vaccine, you attacked this and considered it a sin that we had more protective equipment than we could have received in any distribution mechanism in Brussels. Especially the ventilators, which would have been delivered by a deadline of 12 months, we tried to get the much larger amount in weeks than we could have expected from Brussels. But also in the purchase of vaccines, if anyone had listened to you, it would have been in human lives, because thanks to the Eastern acquisition, we could have vaccinated people more quickly. And you have talked about nurses and doctors who really work superhumanly in the coronal virus epidemic that there is no health care in Hungary today, and that healthcare is not working. [[15.50]] We could see that it worked better than it did in Italy, where patients were breathed in the corridors of hospitals and in the parking lot of hospitals; it worked better than in many other countries, from which patients had to be transferred to another country; for example, the medical chamber in Switzerland asked people to predestinate. Compared to this, every patient in Hungary had a ventilator, every patient had a hospital bed, every patient had a medicine and a doctor and nurse to care for them. What did you do? They were producing fake news, they were running anti-vaccination campaigns, they referred to Athina Németh, the fake paramedic here in Parliament, they were shooting kamuvideos with her, they were producing fake statistics and they put it on Facebook; they didn't vote for protection laws; and if it were up to you, there would be fewer ventilators, fewer hospital beds, even fewer hospitals, and the rest of hospitals would have had to pay visits and hospital allowances, and we wouldn't have achieved 25 and 50 percent grafts at this rate. We didn't get to be among the first [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] according to the various statements in the rapid control of the epidemic. Please, Congresswoman, consider withdrawing this decision. [[The president's ringing again.]] and not an anti-vaccination campaign, but a pro-vaccination campaign. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-97	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-98	Of course, Mr. President, I don't accept it. You know, Mr. Secretary of State, that Hungarian people do not care or actually comfort us with the epidemic situation in the neighbouring countries. Several people may have been infected in Germany and Austria, but a lot less people died in proportion to the population, Mr. Secretary of State. You know, Mr. Secretary, tell the family members of the 31,000 people we've already lost, and how many we're going to lose because of your helpless disease management. The rate of reproduction is highest in Hungary, Mr. Secretary of State. Why aren't you talking about that? Let's not talk about the situation in Austria, let's talk about the situation in Germany. Let's talk about what's here. You know, Mr. Secretary? ! Are you talking about grafting? His prime minister admitted this weekend, Friday, that he couldn't do anything because they couldn't get people to do their job. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Because you dissuade them!]] Why is that? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You talk them down!]] Well, Viktor Orbán himself said he didn't want to take the third shot. All opposition politicians, I told them on TV that I wanted everyone to... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In fact, I was the one who told you on TV that there was any vaccine. Stop lying to me. [[The president's ringing again.]] , but admit it...
u2021-11-08-99	Congresswoman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-11-08-100	...that they can't handle this epidemic all the time. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-08-101	Dear Parliament, If I have understood correctly, Congresswoman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Vadai, representative of DK and László Szakács, MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology, which was asked to be addressed by the leader of the Group of the Democratic Coalition. It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2021-11-08-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On November 1, the news was that the foundation behind the Chinese Communist University, the Foundation for the University of Fudan Hungary, already has a director general. For someone who does not currently have a campus in Budapest, you say that a referendum will decide on this, and it is not certain that there will be such a university in Hungary, this university has everything. This university already has a large plot in Budapest, which we managed to get away with at a tithe price from the victims of Quaestor, where they wanted to build the Student City, and they promised it to the people of Budapest. You have 600 million forints, you know, this 600 million forints is beyond the state property. He has a curatorium, he has a curatorium president, and now he has a director general, who, by the way, has the same powers as Minister László Palkovics. So, compared to the fact that there is nothing to maintain yet, and it is certainly not certain that there will still be something to be maintained, because there will be a referendum to decide on, expenditure is quite serious, as if someone was building a gas station or a truck stop, that there is no decision that there will be a freeway. For some reason, you already know how this question will be decided. So, Mr Secretary of State, my question is why we need the foundation behind Fudan to have a Director General now. What does Dr. Krisztina Bényi even do for a living? And what are his duties as appointed Director General? Not least how much money do you carry out these tasks? And what other cadaver cemetery do you want to make of these foundations? How many more fidesz cadres are gonna be there, and how much is this gonna cost us in the end? And last but not least, of course, we see that you are not rushing things in these matters, so as far as you know, you are slowing down the referendum, obviously you are going to want to make a campaign issue out of this, but sooner or later, it will end up exactly, and what if people decide that I want to see Student City in Budapest? Who will repay these costs then? After all, this plot will be spent on 600 million forints; because this property would still be for the victims, who were taken away from, and especially the Hungarian state was the buyer. They just spend, spend, spend, and end up spending. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Turns out it doesn't even happen. I would like to ask you when the referendum will take place and who will be responsible. Thank you for your attention and patience.
u2021-11-08-103	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State, Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-104	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, it's kind of repulsive when you're asking us to take account of the public money, the responsibility for managing public goods. I would like to remind you that it was just the left-wing governments, just you, who wasted our common national wealth without any sense of shame or bad feeling. Just a few examples as an illustration. I'm not going to list it, don't worry, Congressman, because it wouldn't take four minutes to name a company, but 10-12 minutes to name a company. The sale of MOL shares, the sale of Liszt Ferenc International Airport, the sale of the Savings Mortgage Bank, and all of this could be classified for a long time. [[György Szilágyi: When was this?]] As regards the very amazing left-wing hysteria around the University of Fudan, honourable Member, the civil national government is working to make Hungarian higher education more competitive and internationally recognised. Shanghai-based university is one of the best universities in the world. We do not say this, honourable Member, but the best rankings in the world show that this university, which you are attacking because you are against knowledge, you are anti-university, you do not want Hungarian higher education to be better, this appearance of Hungarian higher education is a great opportunity. It also allows cooperation between the different economic operators in the two countries. The infrastructure of the development, and the connection system that forms here, also allows foreign and Chinese investors and corporate research and development centres to come to Hungary. And this has a serious economic recovery effect, even if you, MSZP or I are no longer able to follow, an average person can no longer follow what kind of party you are now in the benches of the MSZP, if you do not want to support these developments and the strengthening of the Hungarian economy. That's what the curatorium's working on. Congressman, if you'll listen to me... [[Dr. László Kács: I'm totally listening.]] I'll tell you the answers to your questions. The professional apparatus is working on it every day. And unlike you and the slides on the left, we also want to build Student City. This is a priority state task that the Parliament has decided, and you have not voted that this investment is necessary, by the way. It is pointless, with common sense, why they want Student City, where students live, and to confront each other, while these two functions complement each other, Fudan campus does not take away from Student City, but enriches the project. [[16.00]] The university investment, together with the development of the student city, would make the wasteland, neglected, ruined capital area that I think we could all be proud of if this development were to be implemented. You do not want this, but are constantly and exclusively interested in political hysteria. In addition, you know perfectly well that the government has a legal obligation to report to Parliament on the preparation work until the end of December 22, after which it makes sense to ask people in Budapest about the need for investment. With the staff of the Director General [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] carry out these preparatory tasks. You know, we make investments here, unlike under your left-wing governance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-105	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I don't accept the answer, especially because since you've been preparing investments, these things are going to cost twice, three times, four times. I know, of course, you have to pay for the slepp, that's just the way it is with you guys, that's how it is. But again, in this case, I didn't have much expectations, to be honest, you've been personal and talking backwards and doing everything else. What does Dr. Krisztina Bényi do for a living? That was the question. [[Tamás János Schanda: I answered, but you weren't listening.]] That was the question of how he spends his day, how much money he does it for, and who will be responsible if it doesn't happen. Just to repeat it again, he talked for four minutes about nothing, I understand, but after that, he could have really added who would be responsible if it didn't happen, and also how the Director-General spent her days, why it was necessary. I couldn't answer, so I can't accept it. Thank you.
u2021-11-08-107	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Can we protect the reduction of the rent? It's an address. Mr László Böröcz has the floor.
u2021-11-08-108	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The responsibility of Brussels in today's European electricity and energy crisis is clear, and the European Commission, with Commissioner Timmermans, wants to tax car and housing owners in the lead, disguised as climate protection, to raise the costs. They want to extend the so-called EU emissions trading system to road transport, i.e. cars and buildings, including family houses and apartments. They don't want the polluting multinationals, they want the families to pay the price of climate protection. They think people should get in less cars and heat less. The new left-wing attitude of Gyurcsány-Márki-Zay in the most recent Brussels rhetoric is amazing. While it is an easy-to-predicting fact that without the reduction of the rent, we would have to pay a Hungarian family HUF 380-400,000 more a year, according to Péter Márki-Zay, the reduction of the rent is irresponsible and unsustainable. According to his statement a few days ago, the reduction of energy prices results in excess of consumption. What's the best recipe he's got? Let's just raise prices and then encourage energy savings. To quote him, "What a fool it was to cut a cracker like that back in the day." You can reduce overhead, you can drink less water, you have to use water, you have to use less electricity, you have to use less gas. , said Péter Márki-Zay. Bleeding the population at this level may already be familiar to us from before 2010. Ferenc Gyurcsány didn't stop himself after the change of government, when in 2014, for example, in a journalistic question, he said that the reduction in rent was stupid. Dear Secretary of State, Within Europe, Hungary is one of the two Member States where the prices of residential gas and electricity have decreased over the last two years. This is due to the fact that we have implemented a reduction in the cost of electricity and fixed the public's energy prices in a timely manner. We should not have illusions, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Péter Márki-Zay's puppet theatre would not only abolish the reduction of the rent, but also all other support for families. We can remember brutal numbers from before 2010, with a 97 percent increase in electricity prices, 206 percent increase in gas, and, overall, 15 increases in overhead during their chaos steering. Now, when Brussels plans to take another step against Hungarian achievements and the entire European middle class with the title climate protection, the left-wing prominents are eager to join Commissioner Timmermans' team. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that the Government of Hungary can defend the reduction of the rent in such a counterwind. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-109	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Péter Márki-Zay's incompetence is well illustrated by his opinion on the reduction of rent. Warning, a shocking quote follows:, The problem with these irresponsible steps, such as the reduction of the rent, is that they are very easy to promise, give, and extremely difficult to eliminate. It seems, according to Ferenc Gyurcsány's accusation, the reduction of the rent would be exhausted by using less electricity, water and gas in our daily lives. Let the facts speak for us. The reduction of the rent is one of the government's most successful steps, which has been an appropriate response to a very serious social problem. If we look at exactly what happened between 2002 and 2010, we realize that the left-wing government represented the same energy policy that Péter Márki-Zay proposes today. We remember well that left-wing leadership privatized the energy sector for multinationals, so the state lost its remaining margin of manoeuvre. Subsequently, the market, the official safety nets that could have helped households were simply abolished. During the 2008 crisis, energy prices were unleashed, which multinationals fully passed on to consumers, did not give up their profits, increased their prices, so domestic energy was the most expensive in the European Union by 2010. On the other hand, after 2010, we announced a price moratorium and brought back official pricing and started systematically reducing household energy costs and increasing the share of public ownership in energy supply. Low prices have been officially fixed, so there are no unexpected price increases for the Hungarian people. Let's just imagine it's simple mathematics: if Hungarians were to pay market prices, then on average every year, as Congressman said, more than 380,000 forints would have to be paid to an average family. Gas and electricity prices are still the lowest across Europe, electricity prices are now more than 10 cents per kilowatt, and gas prices are 2.87 cents less per kilowatt. It is an excellent benchmark that the electricity and gas prices are two to three times higher in Vienna or Berlin than in Budapest. The Swedes pay eight times the gas price in Budapest. Moreover, Brussels is pushing for the reduction of traditional European energy production on the basis of climate protection, and the wind of the crisis was felt last year, as the level of storage was low, demand was increasing, supply was reduced, long-term gas contracts were running out, but Brussels was sitting on its laurels and was not using any meaningful means of reconciliation. Hans Timmermans is associated with the climate package, without an impact study, which would actually serve to increase further price increases, thereby endangering the already weak-legged European middle class. Brussels bureaucrats want to tax house owners and homeowners under the cover of climate protection, and they want to increase their prices. We remain in a clear position: the price of pollution must be paid by large companies destroying the environment, not by Hungarian families. We must not forget that the priority of the reduction was to prevent further increases in energy prices, which led to the failure of Hungarians to provide foreign energy suppliers, while the standard of living of the population improved, while the left-wing people gave permission to increase electricity and gas prices fifteen times before 2010. The facts speak for themselves, and we continue to work for the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-111	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. [[16.10]]
u2021-11-08-112	Yes, thank you very much, Mr President, I accept the answer. I'd like to add that the facts do speak. While Hungary had one of the highest prices of electricity and gas in the European Union before 2010, today Hungary has one of the lowest prices of electricity in the European Union. It would be good for left-wing representatives to take this into account when they attack the premium, since before 2010, wages fell, the 13th month pension was taken away, and, moreover, the bills were skyrocketed. Today, wages are rising, real wages are rising, we are re-establishing the 13th month pension, while keeping the rents at the lowest level throughout Europe. I think there's a tangible difference between the two governments. But to draw the electorate's attention, they tried to deceive them several times: in 2002, they said that the housing support system would be maintained if they won and said: [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They're not going to raise gas prices, they've abolished the housing support system, and they've increased the price of gas. Thank you. [[Róbert Szigó applauds.]]
u2021-11-08-113	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 4:11 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-11-08-114	Thank you very much, Mr President, we will wait for Prime Minister to come to Parliament.
u2021-11-08-115	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What is the situation now, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Károly Kontra was entitled to reply, undersecretary of State, Deputy Minister. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[György Szilágyi: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-116	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr Secretary, all the country knows is that you bought an Israeli spy software, Pegasus, and over a hundred people have been observed in Hungary, mainly opposition, journalists, media owners, economic operators, opposition and pro-government politicians, an officer of the National Security Service and former Deputy Director General of the TEK. We knew this, and that you did this illegally in this country, there was nothing else to know, since your Minister of the Interior, Sándor Pintér, said that he could not comment on it, because then he would be in breach of state secrecy. But let's just say that Sándor Pintér went to the National Security Committee meeting, where he was likely to give answers to certain questions, but these answers were quickly encrypted for 30 years, and no one can know what happened to this Pegasus software use until 2050. That's all the country's known until the famous Lajos Kósa came forward with his strong statements. I suppose you'll remember his Hussi-Tussy statement or his expressions about caps, or even if we could forget his statement in 2010 that almost bankrupted the country in one day and knocked down the forint and caused this country huge economic damage. And Lajos Kósa said that yes, the Ministry of Interior bought this spy software. If the Minister of Interior says that he is committing a state secret offence, who will say anything about it, then Lajos Kósa has in all likelihood committed a misuse of classified information, which could be punished by three years of imprisonment in the Btk. 256. § (1). The answer is simple, Mr Secretary: willing to act [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Against Lajos Kósa, and there will be consequences?
u2021-11-08-117	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where the constitutional functioning of national security services is governed by a fundamental law in order to protect the country's independence and legal order. The activities of public bodies authorised to use concealed assets are regularly monitored by government and non-governmental institutions. The National Assembly shall carry out parliamentary control of national security services with the assistance of the National Security Committee. Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, briefed the National Security Committee at its closed session on 20 September 2021 on the issues referred to by you. He stated that since May 29, 2010, therefore, since May 29, 2010, the Hungarian national security services have not conducted or conducted illegal surveillance. Mr. Minister, at the closed meeting of the Defence and Police Committee on 4 November 2021, he also replied to the questions within the framework of the law. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you that you are now in an alliance with those who had been listening to opposition politicians before 2010, have been carrying out illegal surveillance and the Russians have been allowed into the Hungarian secret service's workshops. Honourable Congressman, I'm asking you to abide by the law. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-11-08-119	I thank you, Mr Miniszer, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman at a moment's notice.
u2021-11-08-120	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State was very sweet of you to read all this. You see, Lajos Kósa has put your Minister of the Interior in a very awkward position. There's only one other person who's made him more uncomfortable: you're using this answer. That wasn't the question, you should understand. The question was: Has Lajos Kósa committed a state secret offence? Lajos Kósa was supposed to release data that he shouldn't. Do they go to Louis Kósa or not? And here you are, reading the things that have been written to you. [[Károly Kontra: I wrote it.]] I'll tell you the facts. It is a fact that you bought an Israeli spy software; it is a fact that it has been used unlawfully; it is a fact that opposition has been observed; it is a fact that it has been denied; it is a fact that this has been encrypted; and it is now a fact that Lajos Kósa has committed a state secret offence. Are you willing to act against Lajos Kósa, who published data that he could not have brought? I'll tell you one more time, the Btk. 256. Paragraph 1 states that you would otherwise be obliged to act. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But the reports were made (the president bell rings. ), I hope they will still walk away from Lajos Kósa by sitting in the benches of Fidesz.
u2021-11-08-121	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In fact, you're very nervous about my answer. [[Defiance from opposition ranks. György Szilágyi: Because this is not an answer!]] You were very nervous about that answer that wasn't written for me, but I wrote it, and I answered your question. That made him very nervous. That's what made him nervous. [[György Szilágyi: You did not answer the question!]] That I confronted you with who you are in an alliance with, with whom you are in an alliance, and that these facts seem to have made you uncomfortable. Once again, I stress that Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where Hungarian bodies comply with the laws in force for everyone and act according to the laws in force. I repeat the statement by Minister that since 2010, since May 29, 2010, there has never been any illegal secret service operation in Hungary. [[György Szilágyi: What about Kósa?]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that the tools used to collect classified information are always used in the world. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] all its democratic countries give priority to protection. [[The president's ringing the bell. György Szilágyi: Long live the party!]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] all its democratic countries give priority to protection. (The president's ringing. György Szilágyi: Long live the party!) The government that informs the public about the activities of national security services is a threat to the security of its citizens and the nation. (The president's ringing. ) I ask you once again to comply with the law. [[György Szilágyi: Long live the party! Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-11-08-123	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "How long will they win? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[György Szilágyi: Secretary of State for Hatred, please.]]
u2021-11-08-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The state is profiting from higher fuel prices. According to Fidesz, either the excise duty should be drastically reduced by 20% or the VAT on petrol. Minister, do you know where this quote came from? There is little to guess from Viktor Orbán, who said this in 2004 as a opposition politician when the price of fuel rose to 236 forints. [[16.20]] What does the Prime Minister and Fidesz do with this question now? It's obviously different than what they said in opposition. The VAT on petrol was 25 percent in 2004, today 27 percent. The excise duty on petrol in 2004 was 103 HUF, today 120 HUF/litre. I ask the Minister that, in addition to the high fuel prices, the 27 percent VAT does not mean the safari at gas stations in relation to Hungarian families and Hungarian citizens. Why is it that in opposition they demanded a reduction in excise duty or a reduction in VAT, and they do not do so on government? Minister, fuel prices have never been this high, which affects not only car owners, but also Hungarian families and everyone, as this is also seen in food prices, pharmaceutical prices and price increases in clothing products, i.e. all Hungarian families. In the meantime, what does the government do? He sees that the fuel price is high, they collect a lot of excise duties and VAT, which is unacceptable, as it leads to the loss of Hungarian families. Please put an end to the era of 27 percent VAT on Hungarian families at a fuel price above 500 HUF! Take seriously the proposal that excise duty can be reduced and VAT reduced. How long do they profit, how long will the Hungarian families be sabotaged? That's my question. Thank you very much for the answer in advance. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-11-08-125	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-11-08-126	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Who wins is a complicated question, because I would like to use my two minutes to tell you how you profited at the time of the left-wing governments. The ectant example of this was when you voted for it, you too, Congressman, sitting here in Parliament, taking away the 13th month's pension and taking away the 13th month's salary. So you've been profiting hard, and then let's not even go into how many times you've raised, let's say, energy prices, 13 times in your time of government. As far as fuel prices are concerned, Mr President, a little to say, it has gone into a time dimension, a different dimension, because its calendar still shows 2004 when the situation has changed significantly since then. I'll tell you why. On the one hand, it has changed because we have become a Member State of the European Union, and the European Union's directives, especially its tax directives, set quite strict limits for all countries. On the question of VAT, it has already been said here before the agenda that any changes to VAT are subject to prior authorisation and, on the other hand, the same is the case with excise duty. It is in Hungary today, otherwise in breach of European Union legislation, the lowest rate of excise duty. So, if you are looking for a responsible person in this regard, then it is safe to turn to the European Union, Brussels. The other front you're ignoring is a rise in net earnings. I would like to recall to Mr President that in 2010, at the time of the change of government, 400 liters of petrol could be purchased from an average salary. Now, in 2021 you can buy 670 litres. We see from traffic data that these have increased significantly compared to the previous year. In October alone, petrol consumption increased by 7.1 percent compared to the previous year and diesel consumption by 10,6 percent. So I have to say that it is worth watching both things together, the accession of the European Union and the rise in net earnings. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-127	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2021-11-08-128	Thank you for the answer, Minister, but we have not become smarter. Although, surprisingly, he did not say that Gyurcsány was to blame, he essentially blamed the European Union. I would like to say that the European Union directive has remained unchanged on this issue since 2003 and that the minimum tax is 42 cents. I therefore find it unacceptable that you have nothing to say but to place this responsibility on the former left-wing governments and, above all, on the European Union. Obviously, they have room for manoeuvre. Some countries, such as Croatia, have used the possibility of freezing. And here, I would like to say, Minister, that you do nothing but regularly get out of a meaningful response, because I have not received any relevant information as to why you do not take advantage of any of these options, since you consider the fuel price above HUF 500 to be in order. This conclusion can be drawn from this. The conclusion that others draw from this will be revealed next spring. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-11-08-129	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-11-08-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, We do not consider such a rapid increase in fuel prices to be in order. In essence, the retail price of fuel increased by more than 100 HUF in eight months. The government is also planning concrete steps to halt and possibly reduce such price increases. There may be several elements in this, including what you suggest, the possibility of freezing. This is being investigated by the government. On the other hand, I feel that it is more important to look at the trade margins for these fuel distributors at both wholesale and retail levels. And the third element could be what I was talking about. Yes, in this situation, Brussels must be allowed a minimum rate of either VAT or excise duty, and if this happens, we will not only be able to stop, but also significantly reduce, the price of fuels. Please accept my answer, Congressman. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-131	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Do you really think that the people of Budapest are secondary citizens? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2021-11-08-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, Mr. Secretary, over the last two years, we've seen you put the capital and municipal districts at a disadvantage and endanger the daily safety of many people. It is true that in the autumn of 2019 in the municipal elections, the citizens of Budapest told you that they did not ask for your corrupt and hypocritical mayors, and that they did not ask for any more of Viktor Orbán's corrupt system, since then you have been trying to make life easier for the people of Budapest than to help. You want the subway and the tram to stop. What you're trying to do is make the city as trashy as possible. You want there to be no wage increases at the BKV. Last week it was found that you, unlike the previous agreement, did not even pay a targeted grant of HUF 12 billion under this year's agreement. With their anti-Budapest practice, the everyday life of the capitals is increasingly disturbed. There is no other government in Europe that would be so wickedly and party-stately involved with its own citizens simply because they have different political views. Everywhere we look in Europe, we see governments taking part in helping the capital to finance public service tasks. This is particularly the case in the case of an epidemic. On the other hand, you have been constantly hurting Budapest over the past few years. Dear Secretary of State, I only have two questions left. Why don't you stop getting revenge, ignoring your obligations, and when will you finally help finance public transport? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-11-08-133	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-08-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, We are not only helping the capital, I am trying to help you, because the fact is that you have sent a question to the wrong place at the wrong time, and you have left out four fifths of the country next to Budapest, because you were State Secretary under Ferenc Gyurcsány, as you are now a great henchman and arms bearer. Between 2002-2010, you withdrew HUF 1,400 billion from the municipalities. Please take notes so it's easier to ask questions next time. During the Gyurcsány-Demszky's, the city was otherwise ruined, dirty, neglected, and showed such a picture, although they said that they lied in the campaigns that we were building a city of the world, so this failed. Under you was one of the biggest corruption scandals in the European Union, the M4 metro scandal. On the other hand, how we helped the country and, of course, the capital between 2011 and 2015, we have released and replaced the missing amount that you have taken away from the municipalities, such as the rescue of the capital from 375 billion debts. [[16.30]] In 11 years, 2300 billion HUF has been developed for the metropolitan population, and this served the country as well. As a result of the strengthening of economic policy, the so-called tax power of people in the capital has increased by more than 43 percent. And I would add that we also helped the transport of Budapesters to a large extent, of course, including those living in the agglomeration, with vehicle purchases, renovations, missed investments, and so, for example, we finished the M4 metro, which you were unable to steal. Thank you very much for asking. Once again, I'm trying to help you, but if you can't, there's nothing we can do. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-08-135	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-136	It is difficult to decide, Mr Secretary, that you are now more arrogance or incompetence. I suggest you take a pencil and take notes. At the time when the municipalities were deliberately indebted to you at the request of Viktor Orbán in Kaposvár, local governments and large cities with county rights were deliberately indebted, after which you had an explicit obligation to settle your debt, even if you stole this money during this debt. Many cities led by the mayor and mayor of Fidesz were the leaders of this, from Hódmezővásárhely to the V. district to Kaposvár, we know that. On the other hand, you are currently taking revenge on Budapest. I suggest that you try to settle your debt and help the capital to function properly. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-137	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-08-138	I'm sorry, he didn't say anything. By the way, the fact that for months Gergely Christmas, who was the mayor of the city, did not spend his time on the campaign, not on the city leadership; it was interesting to hear this weekend's speech that he had now learned that he wanted to sell City Hall. Either that's true, or you, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who invaded City Hall, are doing all this. [[Bence Tordai and László Varju keep interrupting.]] I'm glad the party's involved in this debate here. It is also a bit ridiculous that this man quit the campaign and then took a week's leave to turn it into a campaign, while there is dirt and chaos in Budapest, investing more expensively; the same period returned as before 2010. Honourable Congressman, If you didn't like my answer, feel free to slip on the rails, go after the first security guard you see coming, believe me, this looks better on you. Don't drive a city, don't drive a country [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 'Cause that's gonna be trouble. Thank you for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-08-139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for an answer in person.
u2021-11-08-140	We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-11-08-141	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who pays in Hungary? It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-11-08-142	I'm honored by the response.
u2021-11-08-143	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-144	Thank you very much. About the year I was born, there was a couple who, after their evolution, said that we wanted to live in a country where the law doesn't just protect the Coke. It has recently been discovered that Coca-Cola is now winning the fourth recognition of the largest plastic pollution, which is not actually a recognition, and this contributes partly to pollution and climate change. With regard to COP26, there is a lot of talk about who pays for the costs of combating climate change, and the government always says that the polluters have to pay for it. We heard that at the National Assembly a few minutes ago. With Coca-Cola, the government has a strategic partnership agreement, so the Hungarian taxpayers support Coca-Coca's profit in Hungary. I have two questions for Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. The first is how many multinational companies have paid for their pollution costs since 2010. Compare this, if possible, with the amount with which these multinational companies, including ExxonMobil, Samsung, Waberer S, Audit and Suzuki, were supported by taxpayers' money. And the other is that now that the Coca-Cola has been repeatedly found to be one of the largest climate criminals, which makes a significant contribution to climate change and to the environment becoming increasingly unlivable, how much will be paid to Coca-Cola in addition to the various, medium-interested interpretations of Balázs Orbán about Scruton, perhaps on the podcasts of János Áder? As a principle, how does the "pollutor pays" apply in material reality through HUF amounts? That would be my question, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, hopefully, in answering this question, there are amounts involved, and I think that the Hungarian Parliament has knowledge of Mihal Varga, so if it does not repeat it, we will save time. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2021-11-08-145	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2021-11-08-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I was worried that he was about to give me the speech I had to give you in response. [[Defiance.]] So allow me to express the government's answer freely, which, by the way, is nothing new for you. We really want the damage caused by a multinational company to the environment, to the environment around us, to be paid in the future on the basis of the polluter-pays principle. But I have to add that this doesn't have to be done the way you think it is, that we are suddenly changing consumer habits and banning, say, Coca-Cola. I do not think that these communistic principles are worthy of Article XXI. I'd like to recall it in the first century. There were regimes that tried to change people's consumption and habits on this basis. I don't think that's the way to do it. It is essential to make consumers aware of costs in this respect, so it should also be made clear to them that if there is such use of pollutants, the product they buy can only come to them in a more expensive way, because the polluter, the multinational company, has to pay. And then there is a realistic opportunity for the consumer himself to decide, to consider, what kind of product he would like to choose. A ban isn't the answer here. What the government represents is unchanged on this issue, since the governance strategy on climate change has long been announced, exactly in June 2020. Based on this, the Hungarian government made commitments, and János Áder, President of Hungary repeated this, confirmed it at the Glasgow Climate Summit. I will not tell you anything new, and we will also support the fact that there will be higher public, national and even EU support in the period up to 2050 for carbon leakage, deforestation, the transition to electric vehicles, investment in renewable energy sources in the coming years. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-08-147	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-148	Thank you very much for your answer. We've heard a lot of things. The amount of money that we have not heard since 2010, since they have been in government, which of the polluting multinationals has paid into the Hungarian budget. So the polluter pays the principle seems to be a very good principle, but we didn't actually see who paid and how much. The other is that the fact that Coca-Cola has to be banned, I don't think it has been said as a question. We said that you would have to pay for it because it is polluting, because it is a multinational company, and you believe that the principle of the polluter pays must prevail. The fact is that you not only don't pay for these pollutants, but support them with Hungarian taxpayers' money, strategic partnerships. They have concluded strategic partnerships with several climate criminals and support them, but they do not collect the money they would collect in connection with the polluter-pays principle. And I'd like to give you a piece of data that you can't argue with at the end, because here's the thing: since 2013 you've been ruling, every year there's been an increase in CO2 emissions until the coronal virus epidemic, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's gone down in the world. It's a data.
u2021-11-08-149	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor. [[16.40]]
u2021-11-08-150	Honourable Congressman, Once again, in your mind, things get mixed up that are worth separating. One is that there really are human activities that pollute the environment, but we have to live with them, and we have to use them. For example, transport. If I were to accept your logic, the automotive industry should not receive a single penny of support in Hungary. On this basis, the Hungarian Government should not have argued for BMW's investment to Hungary, but, on the contrary, should have rejected this kind of investment. I'm sorry, but I can't accept this line of thought. The same is true of soda companies. Why should we face the fact that such a refreshing company is investing and developing in Hungary? This will bring jobs to Hungary, the company will pay taxes directly into the budget, and will provide people with income. I ask you to separate these from each other, because if you think that way about the world, then the Hungarian economy will not grow, but just as in the Gyurcsány era, to go down. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-151	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2021-11-08-152	I don't accept the identity of the responder. Thank you.
u2021-11-08-153	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister of National Policy, Church Affairs and Nationalities without a wallet:. What's going on? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Árpád Potápi gave the right to reply to Mr. Secretary of State János Potápi. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-11-08-154	I'll take it. Thank you.
u2021-11-08-155	You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-156	Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Mr. Secretary. Besides many of László Fatvér's mistakes, he is regarded as a fidesz politician who will be involved in a corruption scandal among the last. This has happened now, and logically it follows that every Fidesz and obviously KDNP Member already has a corruption scandal. But the first thing that happened, what is happening around László Kövér, sounds good, is about supporting Hungarians across the border. One of the president's co-workers set up a foundation. Kálmán Visontai created the Unlimited Foundation for Hungarian Talent, which aims to support young people who learn Hungarian anywhere in Hungary, in the Carpathian Basin or in the world, who want to train themselves in Hungarian, to deepen their knowledge of Hungarian culture and science, and so on. They also supported such young people and supported four individuals out of HUF 2.4 million. That sounds good, compared to that, it's sad that the foundation has no website, no e-mail address, no activity reports, no news. But what's a little less beautiful is that László Kövér's chief of staff lives in an apartment from this foundation, or at least his family lives there. For 240 million forints, they bought a luxury apartment in Buda with the money of the foundation. So instead of supporting talented young people, László Kövér's chief of staff and his family use this apartment, and their other co-worker, László Visontai, also uses an A6 luxury car with the money of the foundation, but he also managed to support his relatives. The question, Mr Secretary of State, is that, after a number of complaints and announcements have been made on this subject, you in the Ministry of State, at the State Secretary's Office, how do you think it is okay to use the money given to support talented young people across the border to finance the luxury lifestyle of László Kövér's employees. I'm curious to hear your answer.
u2021-11-08-157	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Potápi. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-11-08-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I understand that the Foundation concerned was established in 2019 and operates exclusively from private donations, and that its members are private individuals, who have not managed or managed any kind of public money. The affairs of the foundation which does not manage public funds do not concern government powers, so I ask the Member to contact the institutions for the legal supervision of the foundations.
u2021-11-08-159	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-11-08-160	Then how did you buy Fat's coworkers a luxury apartment and a luxury car? 322 million forints of foreign funding. This foreign aid is supposed to come from Frank Liu's support from his company. Frank Liu is also the richest Hungarian citizen, László Kövér personally initiated him to become a Hungarian citizen, and he also arranged for his medal, the Hungarian gold cross I don't know. Do you think that if a businessman launches a 70 billion-dollar joint venture with a Hungarian state bank, then suddenly, as Taiwanese, he grants hundreds of millions of forints to support talented young Hungarians across the border in the environment of László Kövér, for whom he also saved the Pope's Meat Plant, that raises suspicions of potential conflicts of interest or that he should not give suspicions of crimes? To the greater glory of Christian democracy, let us add that a prized porn producer is Kálmán Visontai who handles László Kövér's affairs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]]
u2021-11-08-161	Congressman, your time limit is up, I'm sorry.
u2021-11-08-162	I wonder how he puts the Speaker in this company. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-11-08-163	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-164	Thank you very much. In short, my answer is that you don't think there's been any corruption. It's a private foundation, he took private money, the foundation didn't have any public money. Neither László Veress, Chief of Staff, nor his family live in the Buda villa we're talking about. You practically confuse this situation with the support of Hungarians from abroad. It's not like that here. Thank you very much. By the way, so far, you have not been interested in the 11-year achievements of national policy, but I would also like to respond to that. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-165	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2021-11-08-166	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2021-11-08-167	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-168	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, there are suspicious transactions in the capital's house, which, of course, the mayor has no idea. For all of us, it is well known that Gergely Christmas has had better ideas than any other regarding the exploitation of the Town Hall building than the homeless detachment, but the case that has just occurred may be the most absurd. These days news of the sale of the City Hall building appeared in the press, according to which the business circles linked to the metropolitan leadership have already taken the necessary steps to this end. The patina complex of the City Hall is protected by monuments, situated in a frequented World Heritage Zone, not to mention this building is one of the most valuable buildings in the capital. According to the Mayor, no decision was taken on the sale of the property, but a document was published stating that a real estate agency was charged with selling one of the most expensive buildings in the municipality. But perhaps this is not so surprising in view of the left's past, as they are famous for it. The airport, Hungarian-owned financial institutions, Postabank, Antenna Hungaria, MOL Zrt. shares, Gyula Meat Combinat, Metropolitan Waterworks have already been sold, and unfortunately, there is a long way to mention what has been lost under their government, while the government is currently working to get these back into the property of the Hungarian people. You have even sold the Book Publisher to foreign owners to decide from abroad what kind of history books are actually being created in Hungary. It's a good thing they couldn't sell the House of the Country. Could there be a case where someone without the Mayor's knowledge starts negotiations on the sale of the City Hall building? With respect to what has been said, Mr Secretary of State, have you allowed the sale of a building protected from monuments to enrich the capital and the business circles linked to the left?
u2021-11-08-169	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2021-11-08-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, in their mentality, obviously, it's permissible. I can't get inside their heads, but let me tell the socialist remnants here, because they're the ones who yelled at your question or raise your question. [[Dr. László Kács: Again! Again, what are we?!]] There are no two lefts, no two lefts, there is the same scenario that you represented here, sitting here, left-wingers. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] You're the ones who played the public fortune, squandered it through privatization and otherwise. [[Attila Mesterházy: Lőrinc Ripper?]] Although 750 billion forints were collected between 2002 and 2010, during which the state ownership ratio of 190 companies was sold either fully and sold, as you said, most of the energy suppliers, most of the utility companies, the airport [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] You're the ones who played the public fortune, squandered it through privatization and otherwise. (Attila Mesterházy: Lőrinc Mészáros?) Although 750 billion forints were collected between 2002 and 2010, the state ownership ratio of 190 companies was sold either fully and sold, as you said, most of the energy suppliers, most of the utility companies, the airport (Dr. László Szakács intervenes) Financial service providers, and you can hear it, Congressman, the truth hurts them because they're yelling and yelling right now. (Attila Mesterházy interrupts.) On the other hand, the recovery of national wealth has started since 2010, and since 2010, national wealth has increased by HUF 6093 billion, which is 52 percent growth in vain, honourable Members. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] By 25 percent for real estate, state assets increased by 143 percent for corporate participation, 81 percent for machinery and equipment and 846 billion for other assets. The Hungarian National Bank, which has been attacked so much, has increased its gold reserve from 3.1 tonnes to 94.5 tonnes, i.e. by 30 times higher. It means they sell everything, privatize everything, steal everything from the state, get used to it. That's what they've been doing in the capital in the past, that's probably what they want right now. It's typical that the mayor who said all kinds of nice things during his candidacy has no idea whether he's being sold over his head or if he's not telling the truth and he's lying. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But we'll figure this out for the next time.
u2021-11-08-171	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-172	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, If I were my fellow left-wing Members, I would remain silent now, because there is a beautiful story you have done here between 2002 and 2010, and it was done by Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is your leader to this day. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] Your boss, and think about it, you sold the headquarters of the MTV so that before Christmas Gergő there is a good example, and I understand what you're saying, you sold the headquarters of MTV for about HUF 4.5 billion, and then you rented it from the same company for HUF 2 billion a year. What if it's not net theft, Congressman? Then the Bojár street plot... (Dr. László Szakács intervenes.) The Bojár street site was sold in 2006 to the company with which the new building of the MTV headquarters was built, and it was also a horror sale. You... [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] Of course, I understand that there are excellent examples in front of the Christmas Gregories, and this may be what they were drawing this idea from. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, go ahead.
u2021-11-08-173	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-11-08-174	Honourable Congressman, Indeed, while stealing and selling everything and stealing and selling everything, besides being bad owners of the city, they are bad owners of the country, beyond being indebted before 2010. Let's say they're doing the same thing to the capital now, and anyone who looks around the capital today, who wants to travel today, sees how much chaos they cause, how much filth and filth they leave behind. That's the biggest problem, that while they're yelling wolf, they're yelling wolf [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] With the biggest cheating of all! They came to power, Ferenc Gyurcsány kept his power with the greatest lie, and they want to come back to power with the greatest deception. The capital has succeeded, but most of the metropolitan people now see what is happening in the capital city, on the streets, on the public property, and how helpless the entire city's leadership is, by the way, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Thank you very much for asking.
u2021-11-08-175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach and Attila Móring József, representatives of KDNP, want to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question: Why does Brussels not contribute to border protection costs? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr István Szilárd Németh, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2021-11-08-176	Yeah.
u2021-11-08-177	Yeah. You have the floor.
u2021-11-08-178	Dear Secretary of State, Europe is facing various threats, including terrorism or a pandemic, and these two meet in illegal migration, so it is clear that Europe's borders must be protected. Hungary protects the southern borders in various ways, including by building a fence, and in this we have followers to mention some countries: Greece, Spain, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, and we see that, as the situation in Afghanistan changes, millions of people are waiting to move west. This year the Hungarian authorities captured 100,000 border offenders and launched proceedings against more than a thousand smugglers. We understand that this defence has cost about 600 billion forints so far, the Secretary of State will clearly clarify this amount, and we are now turning to Brussels for their part in Europe's defence. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, in addition to the government's efforts, we find that the left-wing opposition does not support this activity, as their leader has repeatedly said that it does not support border protection, and that when EU participation occurred in 19 years, the DK MEP Klára Dobrev rejected it. We, the representatives of KDNP, naturally support the prevention of immigration in order to preserve our sovereignty. I ask the Secretary of State how the exact costs of border protection have evolved and how he feels [[The president's ringing the bell.]] why Brussels does not wish to participate in this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-179	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary István Németh Szilárd, Deputy Minister. Mr. Deputy Minister, please.
u2021-11-08-180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Your question is very timely and very serious. I can answer with one sentence: Brussels does not support Hungarian border protection because it does not want to stop the migrants, but rather to organise their travels, and in this, as you have said, honourable Member, can always rely on the Hungarian left. It's a big problem. In view of the fact that until 7 November, last night, 112 259 migrants were dealt with by Hungarian soldiers and police officers, this number was 31 778 last year during the same period; 1035 criminals were caught dealing with human trafficking, which was 349 last year. And there is also a very important change here, at the southern border of the country, that not only the number of migrants has changed quantitatively, but also the methods qualitatively; it is clear that they arrive organized and grouped, and perhaps I could say, rather than organized, that they are trained, because they are all young men arriving at the border and they are committing acts of violence that are increasingly and now characterising their crossing several times a day. It is only the fence, or the technical and legal border closure assigned to it, and the conscientious work of the Hungarian soldiers and police officers, that has enabled us to guarantee the security of both Hungary and Europe, and I would like to stress once again that our commitment to the Schengen Treaty has been fulfilled should in any way contribute to Brussels. But there is no will in Brussels, because they have a pro-migrant policy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-181	Thank you for the Deputy Minister's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-182	Dear Secretary of State, We clearly support the Prime Minister's letter to the Commission on this subject last week to recognise the protection of the external borders and to contribute to the costs. We also support the possibility of restoring transit zones, which would ensure that refugee status is decided outside the borders. [[17.00]] I would like to make one more comment: many wish that Christian democrats should take action to protect individual people. We'll do it, we'll say we need help on the spot. At home, however, we must exercise our responsibility towards society, i.e. to protect against illegal immigration, because, as Mr State Secretary said, these immigrants are not specifically in need of help, but people coming here for other purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-184	Thank you very much. In agreement with everything that the Member has said, let us state that the real danger here is the domestic left on immigration. It is clear that they want to implement the Soros plan in Hungary, if you like, and that if they come to government, they will do so. They made it clear to everyone that they were going to tear down the fence. They made it clear to everyone that they were going to let everyone in on the southern border. They have also made it clear that the mandatory distribution mechanism will also be met. With this, the circle was closed in its entirety. In fact, to quote Ferenc Gyurcsány's newest puppet, his newest Prime Minister's candidate, Péter Márki-Zay, he said that we Hungarians will have to live together in joint households and mixed marriages with migrants. I think that sentence speaks for itself. We cannot let this happen, we must stop the left running amok, we must protect the safety of Hungary and Europe, and we will do so. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-185	Thank you for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas has given him the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Hungarian Zoltán:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2021-11-08-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Potato, fresh vegetables, poultry, flour and flour could continue the line for a long time, the increase in the price of which is hard on the majority of the Hungarian population from month to month. It is now not only the modest earners, but indeed the vast majority of society can sense this situation. And then we didn't talk about the price of food oil, which has risen by 30 percent, or even fresh fruit, which has risen by 40 percent in recent years. But obviously, it also drags with it the prices of the restaurant, the price of the food ordered, and the food at the cafeteria. Food prices are clearly rising everywhere in Europe, and we have already had time today in a previous speech, and we have the opportunity to have an exchange of views. Both increases in gas oil prices, pesticides, fertilisers, factors or even the market impact of the Covid epidemic that generate this process. At the same time, this does not explain how it is possible that the most serious food price increase in Europe, in Hungary, is double the European average. So in our country, when we look at the average EU food price rise, food prices have increased by exactly double. Obviously, this cannot be explained solely by international processes. Rather, the world record VAT is involved in this brutal imbalance, which still affects basic food for many products, but it is also clearly contributing to this process that the system and structure of domestic food production is such that some large profit-oriented businesses have a major part of food production, rather than a truly rural-friendly food production based on the association of farmers, giving its backbone to the domestic food industry, in keeping with their earlier promises. I look forward to your substantive response to what you intend to do to stop this brutal price increase. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2021-11-08-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2021-11-08-188	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You have raised quite a number of questions, to which it is very difficult to answer in two minutes. But still, I think the most important question is that there is a sufficient amount of safe food on the shelves of stores in Hungary. A significant part of this, nearly 70 percent of it was placed on the shelf as a product of Hungarian producers. (Dr. Adam Steinmetz in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) Now you're asking why food prices have risen. I could ask you, although you don't have a lot of options to answer whether producer prices, buying-in prices have risen. The answer to that is very simple, I'll give it to you instead: no, or to a minimum, which is almost undetectable economically. So where's the price increase? Not for raw materials producers, but clearly for trade. We need to regulate trade, I think, to a certain extent, in terms of ensuring that these prices do not really escape. But I would argue with you about that, and if you go to a shop, shop, grocery store, there are indeed higher prices, but the price of fruit and vegetables, especially the price of basic vegetables, has not increased to such an extent, I dare say this calmly, firmly, if you look at the shops. But it is clear to me that not in the production of raw materials, partly in processing, there may be a certain price increase, but specifically the price increase in the commercial sector places the extra on the products produced by the Hungarian agricultural economy, the agricultural producers. You raised the same issue, and I didn't have a chance to answer that. Assemblies are created if they are voluntary, they must not be introduced again by force in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-189	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-11-08-190	Mr. Secretary. If the traders were to take this extra profit now, as you said, then the regulation of this would indeed be timely. Just what are you waiting for? However, this problem has been going on for many months, and we feel it on our skin. Moreover, since this issue has already been mentioned, food self-determination is a concept that has now, at least in committee, been lined up by our pro-government fellow Members, so that they can finally resume a fight for freedom that really makes sense and could have an impact on the everyday lives of Hungarian people. In such cases, allies must be found in Europe, and in such cases we must fight our self-determination, which is truly useful and truly felt for everyone. So, unfortunately, we couldn't know all of this from his reply, so I think it is absolutely justified, for example, to have a demonstration on Wednesday at 5 p.m. to draw attention, among other things, to the untenable situation of food prices. We're waiting for you all with love. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2021-11-08-191	Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-192	Honourable Congressman, That's the difference between you and me: you want to show off, create a mood, and we want to deal with it. This is typical of you, just as you live with your partymates, your future partners, in this world. So I strongly reject that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-193	Thank you for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Vargha has given him the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Attila Mesterházy:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-194	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Minister Péter Szijjártó said on 19 July that he was unaware of this type of data collection, and this is a government position, he stressed when he was asked questions about Pegasus software. Then he said that he asked the Director General of the Information Office, who reassured him that they did not use such software, that they had not entered into an agreement with him, and that he accepted this claim. We now know that the Minister lied, because Lajos Kósa admitted that the Hungarian government has such software. So I would ask the Secretary of State why Minister Szijjártó lied or was not informed of this, or he is simply left out of these questions. But when he said that as a government position, he could say that there was no such data collection, it became clear today that it was a lie. The other thing is that the Minister may have lied in his second statement, because after the last committee meeting, Congresswoman Valai said that Lajos Kósa did not say exactly, not the Ministry of Interior, but that even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs might have something to do with this procurement, or even with the Information Office. That is why I would ask the Secretary of State whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Information Office was involved in this acquisition of software, or whether they were involved in any form in that process. Or I can ask you very specifically: József Czukor had a role in the fact that one of the Hungarian government's organs bought this software from someone, whether it is Pegasus software or other software called Candiru, which is also used for similar wiretapping. [[17.10]] Another such question was that János Lázár or Péter Szijjártó gave any instruction that the Information Office would observe a target for which he had to use this type of software for the specific specialist service. So in Hungarian: [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Did the Information Office collect data using these tools? Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-11-08-195	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-11-08-196	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Minister Péter Szijjártó said well when he said that there is no such data collection, because Hungary is a rule of law, and it is quite natural and it is obvious to us that it is not for you that, in the case of any government, state case, event, measure that affects individuals, bodies or organisations, the state is acting in accordance with the laws in force. If it involves the use of concealed assets, they will do so under the control of authorised public bodies and institutions independent of government. This has always been the case since May 29, 2010. The Hungarian national security services, whether they work under the control of the Ministry of Interior or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, have not carried out or conducted illegal surveillance. But whenever the National Security Committee found it necessary to ask questions in this matter, and it is necessary to convene the committee, then, of course, we were available every time, both Minister and myself, and the heads of the Information Office were there and will be there. Of course, in accordance with the legislation, national security services can use the technical means and methods of collecting classified information in order to perform their tasks effectively. Thank you very much, and I ask for my answer to be accepted.
u2021-11-08-197	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-198	I am very sorry, Mr. Secretary, that you have not answered one question. So did the Information Office have a role in the acquisition of these softwares? Was József Czukor involved in this? Did the State Department have any role to play in this process? I'm gonna need you to look into this. For my part, as I thought I would not receive a worthy answer, I initiated a meeting with the Director-General of the Information Office today, and I will also initiate a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this subject to look at these questions, a little more precisely than you have been delirious here. You weren't listening, Mr. Secretary. I didn't say it was illegal, I said that the Secretary of State denied that this was the type of data collection. I think it's a lie, let's stick to that word, so it's more obvious. I have two more questions, see if I can get an answer. How is the investigation conducted by the Minister at the Information Office on this matter, which was about how this information could have been leaked? This was announced by the Minister himself. To be fair, the claim that John Lazarus or his immediate surroundings could have been observed [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and was aware of this observation by the Information Office, because it was about the minister supervising him. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-08-199	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-08-200	We have heard a number of statements that seem like questions, which, of course, are not in the context of reality. If you think, Mr President, that you can get answers at a closed meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, then, of course, at a closed meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as did the closed session of the National Security Committee and the closed session of the Committee on Defence and Police, the members of the committee will be given answers, but I think, Mr President, that you should not be looking in the post-2010 period, but in the period before 2010, between 2002 and 2010, when your government led Hungary and then the secret services were used for internal policy purposes. It was then that Russian spies in Bulgaria were infiltrating and working in the Hungarian secret services. I suggest you consider this period, Congressman. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-201	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Today's last immediate question. Tamás Herczeg, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What doesn't Márki-Zay say about migration? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I will start by saying this with a quote, which was said at a debate evening of the Gyurcsány-show:. Whoever is Hungary's Prime Minister's candidate will implement a joint programme in which the left-wing programme elements are also present. There is no such thing as a conservative government in Hungary. The two sentences came from Péter Márki-Zay, who became the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left after a long stretch. It can be seen from these two sentences that there was only a role change, because the faces of the left, which were previously believed to be popular, became very rapidly amortised, so a new one had to be obtained. Márki-Zay said what could be suspected: there is no change, he pursues the same policy as Ferenc Gyurcsány's former men. What can you expect from the left of Gyurcsány-Márki-Zay? I would summarize this as a surrender to foreign interests: if the European Union so requests, they will eliminate the reduction of the rent, see, the reduction of the rent is a stupid thing, said the former Prime Minister, raising taxes on labour or letting economic immigrants in. We have already heard from Ferenc Gyurcsány that Hungary would benefit specifically from accepting migrants, and Márki-Zay has recently given faith in an English-language television interview to support immigration. Obviously, he talks less to the Hungarian press organ, but there is no surprise in that, because he took the baton from Gergely Christmas, who in his interview with the German liberal Die Zeit stated that the guarantee of the rights of asylum seekers is a moral obligation, and it is part of their program, but they do not put it on the posters, because there is no choice. We see the numbers, we see the trends, there are more and more people trying to cross the border illegally. I therefore respectfully ask Mr State Secretary what the left-wing migration policy of Gyurcsány-Márki-Zay would do. How many economic migrants and where have they flowed into Europe so far, and who and how many others are still on the road, who should be accepted according to a left-wing scenario?
u2021-11-08-203	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-204	[[Without sound, the clock won't start.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman,
u2021-11-08-205	My apologies, Mr. Secretary. Be kind enough to check the microphone, make sure it's okay. [[Charles Kontra inserts his card into the machine.]] Yes, thank you very much. It'll be all right now. Reset the clock, please.
u2021-11-08-206	Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President, and thank you to the Parliament for your patience. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Illegal immigrants have surrounded Europe, migrants are arriving on the Spanish, Italian and Balkan routes, and are becoming more aggressive. Many of them are organized to commit border violations, attack border protection equipment, technical equipment, police and soldiers. In 2021, 102 259 have been illegally trying to enter Hungary and the European Union. The number of smugglers subject to the measure has also increased significantly: compared to 2020 they have already reached 1035 people. Due to migratory pressure, the southern border of our country needs to be strengthened, and thousands of people are currently protecting the borders. Hungary and Serbia have expanded their cooperation against illegal migration. Hungary, together with other Member States, is successfully protecting the EU's external borders, and we have organised a joint patrol with the Serbs and the Slovenians. Hungary has been at the forefront of the fence building, and today it has fenced the border of Bulgaria, Macedonia and is building a fence at the moment in Poland and Lithuania. Border protection workers have received new personal protective equipment due to an increasingly aggressive migrant action. I would also like to thank, in this House, the police and soldiers who protect our borders. The Hungarian government, as opposed to the left from Brussels, and here I would respond to what the migration policy of Gyurcsány-Márki-Zay would mean for Hungary: it could also result in tragedy and loss of the country, it continues to pursue an open and clear policy: maintaining the border fence, ensuring border protection, protecting Hungarian people.
u2021-11-08-207	Thank you, Mr State Secretary, Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Congressman! [[17.20]]
u2021-11-08-208	Secretary of State, thank you very much. Over the past few years, we know that hundreds of thousands of immigrants have entered Europe, most of them by illegal means, their goal was in the vast majority of cases one of Western European countries. These countries are now struggling with deteriorating public security and a high burden on their social systems, so it is reasonable to think again and again about the idea of distributing illegal immigrants to EU Member States. In my opinion, it would be a violation of the sovereignty of our country if Brussels were to force compulsory resettlement into Hungary by means of open or concealed means. The left-wing voice or conscious resolution shows that it would choose to introduce migrants, even though Hungary has already decided to reject this in the context of the national consultation. I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State that you believe that the forced reception of migrants is compatible with the sovereignty of the Member States. What has the government done so far to defend the Hungarian position? How much money have we spent so far to protect against migration? Thank you very much for your reply.
u2021-11-08-209	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-210	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary has so far spent nearly 600 billion forints on border protection to protect Hungary and the European Union. In order not to escalate illegal migration from Afghanistan, we have published a declaration together with the European Union, and we are now seeking to implement the content of this declaration. Hungary was one of the first to accept this declaration, and I am sure that it will be the best performer of this declaration. What is good for Hungary, who can enter the country, who we want to live with, is decided by the Hungarian people, and we insisted on this earlier. We stop illegal migration, protect Hungary's borders, protect Hungarian people. I would ask the honourable Member, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, to support the government in Parliament, so that we can continue to fulfil this service, the interests of Hungary and the protection of Hungarian borders in the future. Thank you for asking. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-11-08-211	Good evening. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2019 LXXI on Hungary's central budget for 2020. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the implementation of the Act. The government referral is T/17188. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as a minority and EU agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the views expressed on minorities will be presented in a total time frame of 60 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please.
u2021-11-08-212	Your Honour, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. The general debate on the closure of the 2020 central budget took place on 20 October. The Committee on Budgets, as a designated committee, has discussed the proposal as well as the other standing committees of Parliament, as provided for by the House Rule. All of the negotiating committees found that the bill complied with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) of the Law, so it complies with the requirements of the Fundamental Law. And now a sentence that we have not been able to say in the last 30 years: neither representatives nor a Commission amendment have been submitted to the bill. The following are the opinions of the negotiating committees. First, the majority opinion expressed in the Committee on Budgets. The year 2020 was clearly about the pandemic caused by the corona virus, so the constantly changing conditions required, of course, the budget to be adjusted. Thanks to the government's disciplined fiscal policy for 2012-2019, the Crown Virus epidemic hit a well-founded, balanced economy last March. Three funds have been created to address the crisis. The establishment of the Anti-CDC Fund guaranteed that health protection should not be a financial obstacle. The Fund's appropriations were open from above, of which a total of HUF 945 billion was paid, mainly for the purchase of medical equipment for protection. The establishment of the Economic Protection Fund was a measure to avoid the negative effects of the epidemic on the economy. By the end of 2020 the fund had significant source insurance, worth more than HUF 4000 billion in total. The main sources of funding were investments to underpin economic growth in 2021-2022. The regulation on the European Union Anti-CDC Fund has created the possibility of receiving and using new aid that may come from the EU. However, the fund did not receive any support from Hungary last year. In 2020, a total of nearly HUF 1100 billion less cash-flow tax and contribution revenues were received than planned. This is partly linked to transitional tax measures and, to a large extent, to the economic recession. Despite the loss of revenue, the government has raised the necessary resources to finance increased expenditure, thus maintaining the country's viability. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade took its part in the first line of defense against the Crown Virus. The task of the wallet was to obtain the necessary protective equipment in a very difficult market, for which nearly 560 billion forints were available. Under the national export protection programme to counter the economic impact of the epidemic, 130 companies received a total of HUF 74 billion in foreign market access and foreign market growth support, resulting in a total investment of HUF 139 billion in 19 countries. Meanwhile, Magyar Export-Import Bank has paid HUF 295 billion of loans with a favourable interest rate to domestic businesses. The majority opinion expressed in the Committee on Sustainable Development. Environmental spending in 2020 was more than HUF 90 billion higher than in the previous year. The increase in the sector's expenditure was mainly influenced by the increase in expenditure under the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency. Hungary is gradually moving to a low-carbon economy thanks to thought-out strategic planning. On the sustainability side, the implementation of related national strategies is supported by national greening programmes. Through the climate and nature conservation action plan, the forestry programme was launched in 2020 with more than one million trees planted in the last year in cooperation with the Agricultural Ministry on 164 hectares and more than 650 hectares of new forest under the entire forestry programme, representing more than 3 million woodlings. In 2020, the government will support the emergence of cheap electric passenger cars and electric powered bicycles by an increased subsidy amount. As of 2022, only electric buses can be put into service in settlements with a population of more than 25 thousand people. As a result, within ten years, every second bus in large cities will be environmentally friendly. In the year 2020 the government measures that lead to the well-being of Hungarian people, families, the preservation of the natural values of our country and a more environmentally friendly social arrangement continued. [[17 .30]] Opinion of the Economic Committee. Hungary's economic performance exceeded the EU average in 2020. On the basis of unadjusted data, the total national product decreased by 4.7 percent, while the EU economy also shrinked. According to Eurostat, Member States' economies decreased by 5.9 percent on average last year. Due to the volatile situation caused by epidemics and the minimising risk of infection, the purchase of non-essential articles has typically been delayed. This slightly drew back the economy, as explained by the decline in the purchase of services and durable consumer goods. The investment rate reached 26,8 per cent in 2020. Ongoing large-scale capacity increases and the attractive corporate tax environment are the basis for further expansion of investment performance and an increase in competitiveness. State investments increased nominally by 4.5 percent in an annual comparison, with government development worth more than HUF 3000 billion in the economy. Thus, last year the share of public investment compared to the total national product increased to 6.4 per cent. In particular, developments linked to inpatient care increased the volume of investment in health care by 15 percent and investment activity in the education sector increased by 7 percent. The National Security Committee, the Defence and Police Committee, the People's Welfare Committee, the Cultural Committee, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, and the Justice Committee have not given a separate opinion, in addition to finding compliance with the law's decision-making house rule. Opinion delivered in the Committee on Agriculture. The year 2020 showed the crisis resistance of Hungarian agriculture. The primary objective of Hungarian economic policy is to maintain the results achieved so far and the outstanding growth momentum at European level. In the past year, Hungarian farmers had to endure exceptional circumstances, as besides the coronal virus, agriculture faced several other challenges, including spring droughts and frosts, avian influenza, swine fever, falling pig production prices and extremely high feed prices. In times like these, we must help society to recover from this difficult situation. The government has developed an economic protection programme that will enable the economy to recover and continue to grow. The performance of the food industry showed a strong wave in 2020, which is mainly linked to the economic effects of the corona virus and the panic buying-up of the first wave. The sector's sales increased overall at the same price and year-on-year, which is due to foreign market sales. It is important to mention the outstanding fact that the sector has provided the Hungarian population with a high-quality, safe food supply, while the output, profitability and foreign trade surplus have also increased. The value of agricultural emissions continued to rise in 2020, due to an increase in producer prices, which in turn decreased in volume. The number of people employed in the food industry decreased in 2020, with 147 thousand people, which is 1.6 percent less than in the previous year. The sector's share of employment in the national economy was 3.2 percent. In sum, the Hungarian agricultural sector has been on an ever-growing track since 2010, thanks to the persistent and hard work of farmers and the government's policy to support the countryside, which significantly contributes to the country's economic performance. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. The 2020 epidemiological measures also affected the implementation of our national policy tasks. Unfortunately, our long-standing networking activities, such as the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, the Unlimited!-program, but many sibling visits across borders could not have been carried out either. Thus, the excursions of the Unlimited! programme will continue from the 2020 framework; the deadline for the implementation of some two thousand excursions was extended until 31 August 2022. Economic development programmes continued in Vojvodina, Transylvania, Transylvania, Transylvania, Dravag and Muravidék. The total grant of HUF 54 billion provided by the portfolio enabled HUF 127 billion to be developed. Thanks to Hungary's central budget in the year of national cohesion, the Commissioner's funds were able to provide a secure background as far as possible to carry forward our national policy goals that started in 2010. Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. Hungary had stable public finances thanks to a consistent economic policy in recent years, so the 2020 epidemic hit a resilient, balanced economy last March. The budget deficit has been achieved for years under 3 per cent, the government debt has been on a downward path, the balance of payments has been in a steady state and the risks arising from foreign exchange debt have been eliminated. As a result, the economy was in a strong growth momentum. Due to measures preventing the spread of the virus, the disruption of supply chains and the decline in demand, emissions have dropped in many sectors of the economy, which fundamentally revised the growth projections. In the spring of 2020, the economic protection action plan was launched, which significantly undermined the negative effects of the crisis caused by the coronal virus. In the framework of the economic protection action plan, significant resources have flown to the economy, which have helped businesses, households and workers alike. In order to safeguard jobs and the survival of businesses, the government also helped economic operators through the tax system. In the months concerned, businesses received tax relief and were assisted through social contribution tax, vocational training contribution, rehabilitation contribution and small business tax. The Committee on European Affairs has also submitted no opinion other than compliance with the decision-making house rule. Dear House, Your Honour, Mr. President. Before we close the majority opinion, I can tell you that in the last 20 years we have not been able to submit a bill such as this closing report, we have not been very much here. For just 20 years, I have been involved with Mr Tállai State Secretary in the discussion of closing accounting laws, but we have not yet met with such a slick, simple closing statement. I would also like to congratulate all the colleagues of the Ministry of Finance from here, because at a very difficult time they have done a very difficult job and well. It is therefore clear that 2020 was not a simple year. Most economists agree that this crisis was much more serious than the financial crisis in 2008-2009, but I think that we have all done a lot to ensure that Hungary survives the pandemic with as little financial and human loss as possible. In view of all this, I ask this House to support the bill with its vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-213	Thank you very much. Minority opinions are now being presented in a period of one and a maximum of 30 minutes. Congressman László Varju, please. [[17.40]]
u2021-11-08-214	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Yes, it is necessary to nuance the picture from which it follows from both the author's and the majority's opinion that everything is perfectly fine and that we have managed to spend HUF 28 000 billion without finding any error in it. Not a mistake, but differences in the fundamental process; I would like to provide information on their assessment on the basis of opinions expressed in several committees. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Attila Gelencsér.) Let us perhaps begin with the minority opinion expressed in the Committee on Budgets, which basically draws attention to growth and budgetary processes which differ significantly from appropriations. In 2020, Hungarian macroeconomic data typically deviated sharply from projected developments. Only by highlighting the growth and general government deficits, GDP decreased by 4.7 percent in 2020 instead of the projected growth of 4 percent, and the cash flow deficit was 13 times that of HUF 4716 billion instead of HUF 359 billion. It is not surprising that, in times of crisis, the number of legislative proposals adopted some three quarters of a year earlier in the early summer of 2019 was swept away by the crisis. Although they could have thought of this at the time, and it was an awareness-raising call that the budget adopted at the time was actually a blank cheque, and nothing more than that, because after that, the government will completely rewrite the budget by means of night decisions, and essentially deprive Parliament of the right to control and the possibility of it. This was clearly practiced by both the Ministry of Finance and the Government in 2020. The difference is significant, therefore, what has happened, although it is true that there is not the greatest difference in revenue, but in expenditure. In this way, we must say that, by the way, the budget's totals have not actually been changed during the process, but that internal transfers have been carried out which could make arbitrary decisions about everything. It is worth mentioning that, while the Ministry of Finance gradually projected a greater decline from March 2020, it indicated a larger general government deficit, the Hungarian National Bank expected growth in autumn 2020 and September. The President of the Hungarian National Bank was unable to answer this question at today's Economic Committee meeting. So we should also say, on the example of this, that there was a great deal of confusion about how to deal with this, a solution to this situation. This disturbance has had serious consequences in the implementation of the budget, not only because the general government deficit exceeded 3 per cent, it is still acceptable in this respect, but in itself during the same period, when you managed to do so, the average budget in Europe was even suffractive. By the way, the huge surplus of the current account in 2017, compared to previous years, disappeared when you were spending. The forint has been steadily weakened during this period, and I must add that the impact of EU transfers is not mentioned in this report. Well, then, let's see how, in fact, the processes in comparison to the numbers envisaged, so in comparison to their design, the processes in themselves went down. In this respect, the decline in the Hungarian economy in 2020 was smaller than the EU average, and yet you have made much higher spending than the average of the European Union. I am still not saying that this is the extent of the problem, but, in addition to the size of the general government deficit, it is its internal structure that shows that you have actually used the resources not to deal with the epidemic, to save the economy. For example, the only example of this is that 40 percent of the year's deficit was spent in December, which certainly could not have been realised according to your intentions. So in that sense, it was a very serious irresponsible thing to do. Based on the analysis of the sources of the deficit, it is clear that it was not the revenue that was the problem. Indeed, the substantial cause of the large deficit was a significant increase in expenditure, the government mainly used redeployments and re-labellings in April 2020 and created an open-ended economic fund within the budget. More than HUF 3600 billion were gradually transferred from the fund, but only about a quarter of this money went directly to the real economic protection. The determination of this ratio is the determination of the Ministry of Finance, not even the minority position. They started throwing money around pretty soon, by the way. At the beginning of the year, 25 billion forints were directed to space exploration, 82 billion for the reconstruction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, another hundred billion for stadium development, museums or various ministerial programmes, and 300 billion forints were taken out of the fund for the relief of Crown Virus damage, otherwise Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. It was used to raise capital, and we could still list the facts that had nothing to do with what should have been done. 'Cause what was really necessary? A significant part of the expenditure directly related to the epidemic, has not been neglected, has not been kept and jobs thus preserved, and it is clear from the above that the budget has already been shown to have been completely separated from the budget law, the government has not substantially modified it with Parliament, so it has essentially implemented a shadow budget under its own authority and has prepared a shadow report on this. In reality, therefore, the 2020 budget was not suitable to combat the economic and social crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, it did not create balanced development conditions in the longer term, it was not able to mitigate the expected shock waves and at the same time maintain social peace. This may have led to the loss of many jobs, and you have not helped to preserve jobs, nor have you helped social groups and vulnerable people most affected by the crisis. A minority opinion was also formulated in the Committee on Enterprise Development, on the basis of which it can be said that there have already been several debates between us on public debt, since we see that in 2010 the country took over the budget by 80 percent in the order of magnitude after a crisis, which is how the government started its activities. They tried to carve it with years of work, but they have now achieved the same thing, exceeding the historical threshold as a result of the crisis, over 80 percent of the debt that has arisen. In the meantime, we also see that public debt has doubled in scale in nominal terms. Dear Secretary of State, When you took over the government, the government debt was HUF 21 000 billion, and now it exceeds HUF 40,000 billion. In the meantime, you have used EUR 50 billion of EU funds, confirmed pension savings worth HUF 3000 billion, spent all this, and the final result is a debt of HUF 40 000 billion. After all of this, I think it is no wonder that your closing account for this year, for 2020, as part of this process, is unacceptable, and in this sense the wording of the minority opinion, I think, is entirely justified. [[17.50]] In addition, you had to face the fact that you were trying to reduce the foreign exchange debt rate, which was said several times in political terms, and then, with one move, this is already part of 2021, practically half the size of the IMF loan, the country was immediately re-indebted this year. So we see that, as a result of the stalling of EU funds and other external effects, you needed extraordinary revenue with this borrowing, because as a result of your debate with the European Union, the current state budget can only be financed from external sources and therefore a foreign currency loan has been borrowed and the country has been in debt. With regard to the lack of wage support, the Committee on Enterprise Development reiterates in its minority opinion that 90 percent of the workers leaving Western Hungary to Austria receive their outstanding wages at home, and you did not create a chance for Hungarian workers to do so, but left it to the survival of the workers: if families had a few months' or perhaps even less savings, they expected them to live up to it and did not help the workers. After all, they tried some administratively over-complicated solutions, but did not help workers in 2020. The Economic Committee has also issued a minority opinion, in which I must say that the direction of the 2020 budget has been fundamentally defined by the emergence of a coronal virus epidemic in Hungary and by the control of the epidemic. Unfortunately, the failure of defence and economic policy is also reflected here in the accounts. For years, the amount allocated to the welfare function has been reduced: while in 2009 56.2 percent of public finances were spent for this purpose, in 2020 it fell to 54.4 percent. Thus, during the epidemic period, when people should have been helped most, they were reduced in that period and proud of the extraordinary increase in investment in this period. Thus, at the expense of the people, they have tried to support loyal companies and this is reflected in this form, i.e. in reducing the cost of welfare functions. The reduction appears to have occurred both in the area of education expenditure and in the area of pensions and social security in general. The only reason for this is the increase in health care alone, but the main reason for this is the additional costs of combating the epidemic, if the masking procedure of HUF 300 billion is included. And if they add up everything, it's gonna come up with a higher amount. However, it is regrettable that the closing account devotes only one page to the Anti-CDC Fund, while thousands of billions of forints were spent here, a large part of it is just about the conditions under which the fund was created and not about its operation in the opinion of the Economic Committee on Minorities. Finally, I would like to highlight one more point from a specific minority opinion of the Committee on Budgets, as we have just said, since the year 2020 was a budget for chaos, there has been a level of intransparency, inevitability and improvisation, and there has been almost total regulation in budgetary matters, as Parliament's role has been minimized. I wanted to underline, by the way, what was said earlier, even because, with many months' delay, what Parliament is doing is also coming out. It was quite amazing that two new funds were set up in the budget in the spring of 2020 without telling us what revenue and expenditure lines were included. The way the government financed measures for crisis management was opaque and corrupt, contrary to the country's real interests. Thousands of billions have been spent on alleged crisis management measures, but the most important expenditure has not been allocated. In conclusion, I would like to say that, in this form, in line with the opinions expressed by the minority, we cannot support the discharge law. I would ask the Secretary of State to try, in some way, to respond to these points. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-08-215	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect now. [[András Tállai says no.]] It says no. In this case, I will give the floor to Imre Ritter, a national representative, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-216	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Präsident des Staatlichen Rechnungshofs! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich meine Meinung, die gleichstimmig mit der Meinung des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten ist, bezüglich der Umsetzung des Gesetzes Nr. LXXI über den Zentralhaushalt Ungarns für Jahr 2020 mit Nr. It's 17188. Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Dear House, Allow me to express my opinion, which coincides with the position of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities at T/17188. LXXI of 2019 on Hungary's central budget for 2020 on the draft law on the implementation of the law. I respectfully inform you that the last meeting of our committee on 26 October 2021 is T/17188. The Committee therefore did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. As I said in the general debate of this bill on 20 October 2021, I would like to reiterate with regard to the final closing date of the cycle that, overall, it is objectively possible to say that we have been able to increase the support of Hungarian indigenous nationalities by less than HUF 4 billion in 2014 to more than HUF 22 billion, i.e. nearly six times, in the central fiscal law of 2022. If we add that between 2000 and 2014, in the 14 years prior to the parliamentary representation, there was almost no substantial increase in support, then I think it is fair to say that the parliamentary representation that took place in 2014 was the beginning of a new time calculation for the 13 indigenous Hungarian nationalities. At this point, as I have already done many times, I must stop and thank the Hungarian Government, the factions of government, without reservation, for the positive decisions that the 13 indigenous Hungarian ethnicities have received grants and opportunities that have not been experienced in Hungary in the last hundred years. At the same time, I thank the opposition fractions of the previous and current Parliament and all its independent representatives for almost always supporting the proposals of nationality. I would like to point out here that, in addition to increasing the size of the aid, we have also been able to achieve with legal guarantees that, under the legal supervision of the ministries responsible for nationalities, the 13 indigenous nationalities carry out the distribution of national funds, grants and applications. At the same time, in addition to the objective numbers for increasing minority support, I consider it at least equally important that with the continuous parliamentary presence Hungarian politicians, the Hungarian Parliament, have learned about the aims and problems of indigenous nationalities in Hungary, and has become a partner in solving them. At the same time, all these positive historical changes are not contradicted by the fact that we still have a lot of tension, problems, challenges and challenges to solve. [[18.00]] After the serious omissions of the last seven or eight decades, we have started from a depth which cannot be compensated by the marked positive changes of seven or eight years. We have set, set our goals, and we are determined to achieve them for the future of our children and grandchildren. Mr President, Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary shall be composed of the members of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, T/17188. LXXI of 2019 on Hungary's central budget for 2020 It agrees with the bill on the implementation of the law and proposes that it be adopted by the House. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2021-11-08-217	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The members' speeches will follow. I would like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible. The Democratic Coalition Congresswoman, Congressman Anett Bősz, has spoken. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I owe Mr Péter Benő Banai an apology that I had to leave the committee early, but I listened to his response to me, and I would like to respond to them, and in this way it is better that I did not speak in this debate with minority opinions. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State from a distance for always taking the professional debate seriously and on this basis treating the differences of opinion between us. [[András Tállai: I'll give it to him.]] It is very right for businesses and families to be able to prepare for next year's tax rules, as well as the provision of reserves, and I can agree with that, and if they recall our previous budgetary debates or our closing disputes, then I have never debated large-scale reserveing myself. Rather, I put the emphasis on the fact that Mr State Secretary and I have been primarily dealing with distribution disputes. In this sense, we do not argue with each other in many ways. I quoted Adam Smith at the committee meeting as saying that according to Adam Smith, a society whose broad layers live in poverty could not rise, he said so. Today we see three million Hungarians who live on or below the minimum living standards. I think that this is too much in a society of ten million people, and we can get this conclusion from Adam Smith to modern times on our current social challenges. On the other hand, Minister of State Banai stressed that not only Adam Smith had a place in our debate, but also John Maynard Keynes, which I was very pleased to hear because he quoted a liberal Member of Parliament. At the same time, I must say that when Adam Smith's name is said, there is no necessarily room for lassez-faire liberalism, mentioned by the Secretary of State, but rather, for example, where classic economists have agreed in many cases, no matter what political trend they have, and liberals were no exception. In particular, when it comes to eliminating the situation of those living in poverty, they argued, yes, for a state of action. Indeed, they argued that it was extremely important to have solidarity in them; it is extremely important that, in a legal and material sense, the current government wants to do something for those social groups who, by the way, cannot do it for themselves at the moment. I say, Mr. Secretary, that this is the challenge we are facing at the moment. I also said at this committee meeting that although I accept that in a crisis the current budget deficit and the public debt could run away, what my colleague László Varju said was that in December 2020 40% of the current year's deficit was a problem, yes, a problem. It's only a problem because he missed the first moment when he could have been helped by months. He missed the moment when, in the first wave of the epidemic, the opposition argued that we should choose a compromise solution to transform our budget. And speaking of compromises, I also have to mention with regard to closing accounts that we do find a series of government decisions behind budgetary amendments. This means that you, fellow pro-government Members, have eliminated the controlling role of legislative power in the same way as the monitoring role of the Committee on Budgets in the monitoring of the 2020 budget. I say that in an epidemic, when the whole world economy is unleashed by a crisis that we owe to an external shock, and from which we have to come out together, as you argue in favour of sharing a burden, we do need to look for solutions together and not sweep down proposals that have otherwise been entirely constructive on the part of the opposition, such as the extension of the job-seeking allowance to the SME sector, or, for example, the increase of home-care fees, which is an old debate, and I believe that there have been times when you agreed with them, only when you were sitting in the opposition benches. I also have to say that when we talk about this and we talk about how the authorities had to take their share of the burden together, well, they did. However, what was said in today's debate was that there was only 36 billion forints of vehicle tax deduction, which is dwarf and does not represent 1 percent of the first epidemic package of 1000 billion forints, I bow to this argument, but I respectfully ask you to bow down to the fact that in December 2020 cities with Fidesz-led county rights could enjoy a Christmas gift of 1.4 billion forints. These are the discretionary decisions, honourable Secretary of State, against which all the benches of the opposition have spoken in order, I think it would have been worth hearing our voices at that time. But anyway, it would have been worth hearing our voices when we asked you to allow the mayor of all county-righted cities to tell you here, in front of the Committee on Budgets, what situation you are facing. Indeed, it is true that the financial stability of the municipal system has been preserved, but this has resulted in a unique struggle in the situation of the opposition mayors that you, I think, cannot imagine, and which you have not helped, but expressly hindered these opposition mayors. In addition to the fact that I can agree with several statements made by Secretary of State Banai, I suspect that we are looking for the same thing in many respects. That's where all of our problems start. That's how we should have worked together in our country to find a solution to how we get out of such an epidemic. It is reflected in the 2020 budget, which is currently to be closed, that you are even taking the idea that this country is in common. And there's a great deal of this coming from, for example, the social organization offer in which you simply leave out complete social groups from the budget just as you do from a number of specialist ministries, so that I don't even talk about how you're gonna miss it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a large part of society's approach to our common budget and our common affairs. Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-08-219	Thank you very much. The representative requesting the next word is Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I will not comment so long, my fellow opposition Members have said many things, but I do think it is important that I also respond to the pro-government statements and, in recent times, the statements we have heard from the direction of the Fidesz and KDNP fractions. What we know is that last year should have been about dealing with the economic, health and social impacts of the crisis caused by the epidemic, compared to this we have seen a lot of bad and irresponsible decisions, a lot of problems that we have missed, a decision that should have been made, and basically what we said a year ago was that the government was practically continuing to live up to the future. We've seen severe system problems left untreated, brutal restrictions. Typically, these withdrawals affected the municipalities, as they were already heard by my fellow Members. We have seen that, even in times of severe crisis, a great deal of money has been spent on maintaining the enrichment of fidesz oligarchs, just as it has been for continuing investment serving foreign interests, rolling forward and related brutal borrowings. Unfortunately, we have also seen that the most difficult families have been left behind, and this has been the most serious manifestation of grossly irresponsible government behaviour. [[18.10]] It was visible, in a little more detail, that in the time of the crisis, when the municipalities were the number one bastions of defence and were responsible, as they are now, for maintaining the most important public services, they deprived these local authorities and cities of very, very many billion forints, thus making it difficult to defend against the epidemic and making it difficult to work in a situation where the municipalities were losing a lot of revenue anyway. It has been seen that opposition proposals have been swept down in relation to the extension of the time and amount of unemployment benefit, or, in view of various aids, say, to small enterprises in the most difficult situation, which would have been necessary to address the economic and social impact of the epidemic. Parallelly, such shameful decisions have been made, such as the time when Lőrinc Mészáros's hotel chain received nearly 18 billion dollars in support of a parallel dividend of more than 10 billion forints from its construction companies. So in this situation, too, they maintained the enrichment of their oligarchs. We often discuss these oligarchs you call national. It was evident that even when the country was in a very difficult situation, these oligarchs could not be expected. But the investments that cannot be carried out in terms of Hungarian national interests and the huge borrowing continued, we consider investments of basically Russian and Chinese interests, which were typically linked to a very serious interest that appeared at the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros. They could not deal with such fundamental problems as the development of the lower road network. We also had many, many debates about this. Mr. Secretary of State has just gone out, but it can be seen from recent data that, even in recent times, there has been an increase in the side road network and, in general, in the national road network, the proportion of sections that fall into the wrong and the wrong category. So rural infrastructure is getting worse, and examples can be long-lasting. We have also seen a series of measures that have been quite hair-crazy. For example, I'll just give you an example of spending more money on the World Hunting Exhibition than a year on the ambulance budget and work. This is completely hairy and incredibly irresponsible on your part. Green aspects and sustainability have been raised in the context of the Committee's opinions. We can say that we have not been able to deal with such an important system problem in the last budget year as support for the water utilities sector, which is on the brink of collapse. It is to ensure the medium-term maintenance of healthy drinking water supply and the protection of water bases that could not count on the Fidesz-KDNP association or the government again this year. That is why we have said that the budget for living the future has been put forward, and here, unfortunately, in the crisis situation, this has been continued, and this has been the result of the Fidesz-KDNP governance. We can also say that this government and the factions behind it have proved completely incapable of realizing what kind of fundamental change of mind is needed. They were not able to recognise that this type of economic policy could not go on, which in effect led to the severity of the crisis. Here we must build a crisis-resistant economy that builds on the economic policy of a real patriot, so that the most important needs can be met by local production and regional cooperation. Instead, you are investing the Hungarian people's money in the construction of an infrastructure that, if necessary, will, say, lead to the delivery of cheap Chinese mass products. Therefore, they are completely unable to build a government policy of a kind that would indeed serve national interests. In order to achieve this, we need a change of government, and then we can expect that Hungary will finally have a government that recognises the most important challenges of our time, such as the effects of climate change and environmental destruction, able to give a meaningful answer to them and be able to present a budget and then implement it with good governance that really meets these goals. Of course, the LMP fraction will vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-221	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'd like to ask if someone would like to speak out against the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State Tállai if you'd like to reflect. [[András Tállai: Yes.]] You have the floor, please.
u2021-11-08-222	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to briefly summarise what has been said from the point of view of budgetary policy as the end of the debate on the legislative closing act. The economic and budgetary policy merit of the last decade is particularly evident in the fact that the crisis behind us has affected a strong and resilient Hungarian economy. This is why the global pandemic was not about austerity and tax increases in Hungary, as we have seen in the 2008-2009 crisis management, but about subsidies, tax reductions and investment incentives for businesses and families to date. This could be done despite the fact that the economic shock caused by the corona virus epidemic was twice as great as during the 2008-2009 global economic crisis. GDP decline in the world was 3.6 percent in 2020 compared to 1.7 percent in 2009. Although the epidemic has overridden previous expectations of economic and budgetary developments worldwide, it has been a great advantage and it still means that the government has not wasted the last decade. In previous years, the performance of the Hungarian economy has surpassed most of the newly joined EU Member States, and it has also exceeded the European Union average, resulting in an accelerated catch-up compared to the more developed Member States. As a result, during the epidemic, we could rely on the results of steady-state growth, debt reduction and fiscal policy, and immediately provide the necessary financial resources for the epidemiological and economic protection measures, for the protection of families and pensioners, in the order of hundreds of billions. This can also be seen from the figures that show that Hungary finally came out of the crisis with a step advantage. The government regulation measures taken during an emergency were amended by the 2020 Budget Act. As has been said during the debate, the character of the amending budget has been defined by two separate funds along the lines of the key government objectives. The provisions of the Epidemiology Protection Fund guaranteed that there would be no financial obstacle to the control of the epidemic in 2020. A total of HUF 945 billion of funding from the Fund included one-off wage supplements for healthcare workers in 2020, as well as procurements and investments in anti-pest control equipment. The Economic Fund, which was also an important part of the National Employment Fund, ensured the protection of the economy, the preservation of jobs and the creation of new ones. We have provided some HUF 4031 billion of funding from the fund, among other things, to preserve jobs, create new jobs, strengthen priority sectors, ensure liquidity and finance for businesses, and support investments that underpin economic growth. The recovery was strongly supported by the government's launch of the economic protection action plan in spring 2020 in parallel with the emergence of the corona virus in Hungary. In this context, the government has taken and provided measures that have never been seen for these purposes, amounting to around 30% of GDP in 2020. These measures included tax reductions, wage subsidies, a moratorium on repayments, subsidies to encourage development, and the extension of state guarantee schemes. All these economic protection measures have prevented a two-figure decline in our economy. [[18.20]] Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the accounts point out that the crisis was not mitigated by austerity, but by a comprehensive programme of protection of government, jobs and businesses, support for families, and by ensuring the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. A faster vaccination programme compared to the EU's Member States has basically created the opportunity to return to dynamic growth again this year, which can be followed by further strong growth. Let me also briefly summarise the results of the government measures taken in terms of economic developments. Although in the second quarter of 2020, the epidemic has reduced economic activity to an unprecedented extent, a rapid correction has been made from the third quarter and recovery has continued in the fourth quarter, despite the need to re-introduce measures to limit the spread of the epidemic. In the second quarter of 2021, the volume of gross domestic product increased by almost 18 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. During the same period, the volume of developments increased by 10.8 percent compared to the period one year earlier, most affected by the coronal virus epidemic. By the end of May 2021, more than 1 million 165 thousand people could receive the government's support for the labour market or training. In particular, in the framework of sectoral wage support, nearly 180 thousand people received these grants for catering, leisure, travel and accommodation, accommodation and certain businesses engaged in retail activities. The number of companies submitting the request exceeded 30,000. Thanks to these measures, the number of people employed exceeded 4.7 million by autumn this year. Dear House, In response to opposition speeches, I would also like to remind you that during the 2008-2009 crisis, the left-wing government conducted an immediate austerity fiscal policy. For example: the 13th month pension was taken away, the housing support system was abolished, personal income tax increased, corporate tax increased. So they did exactly the opposite of what the civilian government successfully did. The 2020 closure report confirms that the government's economic policy has created a stable basis for mitigating the negative effects of the outbreak of the Crown Virus pandemic last year. In fact, thanks to these, our country has not only survived a serious crisis, but it has also done well in comparison with the European Union. Neither the Members nor the committees tabled any amendments to the bill of discharge submitted by the Government, so the results of Parliament's work in recent weeks are entirely the same as those submitted by the Government. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the draft discharge law for 2020. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-223	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the status of the nuclear monitoring body and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/16224. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to hear the position of the Legislative Committee. The rapporteur for the committee is Mr Dávid Héyj. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-224	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16224 amending certain laws in the context of the status of the nuclear monitoring body. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 21 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, The aim of the bill before us is to ensure that the work of the National Atomic Energy Office is carried out more effectively by the OAH in such a way as to establish a regulation for the OAH as an independent regulatory body. As of 1 January 2022, the OAH will continue to act as a non-governmental administrative body, but will become a special legal entity of the nuclear power monitoring body as a separate regulatory authority with a change of status. According to the bill, the OAH is subject only to the law in the performance of its tasks, cannot be ordered in its function, it carries out its tasks separately from other bodies, without any influence. The amendment of the nuclear law also establishes provisions ensuring the independence of the OAH's management in order to ensure the independence of the OAH's independence. Following the entry into force of the amendment, the National Assembly shall ensure the highest level of supervision over the OAH. The OAH will become a central budgetary body with governing organ status, the budget of which will be a separate title within the budget chapter of the Parliament. The bill also ensures that the OAH has the necessary revenue and appropriate budgetary resources to carry out its duties. The draft before us includes, of course, provisions on conflicts of interest with regard to the President, Vice-President and civil servants of the OAH. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-225	Thank you very much. The minority opinion follows. Congressman László Keresztő Lóránt, please.
u2021-11-08-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that, first of all, it is justified to look at exactly what is going on, what is the significance of this bill; this could not be seen in my opinion from the TAB opinion. Basically, outsourcing and political governance are the two key words we need to say. The National Atomic Energy Office, i.e. the body with powers of authority in relation to nuclear energy, is being outsourced. This concerns the licensing and supervisory powers for investment in Paks II, but also concerns issues related to the current nuclear power plant, institutional or nuclear-related and other nuclear-related issues, the issue of radioactive waste management, where appropriate, authorisation issues related to the disposal of radioactive waste. Then the issue of authorisation for the construction of a nuclear cemetery should be listed. As a result of outsourcing, a mini-ministery is actually created from the Atomic Energy Office, but it will be completely independent of the next government. The Fidesz-KDNP is also paying attention to the fact that, in the event of a change of government, it is trying to cement the current political appointment into a two-thirds decision. The arguments we have heard in the press and in previous debates are not true, that there is some kind of expectation of international policy here that this transformation should be carried out with regard to the authority. The legal environment has not changed in this regard in the last decade. If the government wanted to make such an amendment and submit a law to it, they could have done so through appropriate professional and political consultations. Basically, the decision that has been made is related to the projects currently under way and to the upcoming parliamentary elections. In particular, the president of the National Atomic Energy Office is given significantly stronger powers than the original bill. It can provide for virtually everything in relation to radioactivity. This includes the holding, production, production, processing, processing, storage, use, conversion of radioactive materials, authorisation and authority powers related to transport and licensing tasks, as well as the establishment, installation, operation and operation of the related installation or equipment. There is a long list of all the powers that come into the hands of, in effect, an authority led by a political appointed authority, a quasi-ministerial authority, which, let us say, should be ensured at the level of a government decree or rather at the level of law. Basically, we can say that this decision is extremely dangerous and wrong, the direction is extremely wrong, but it is absolutely fitting into the government policy that is outsourced a lot of important government functions, obviously in addition to the outsourcing of public assets, which we have talked about a lot about. [[18.30]] I believe that the government is not aware that full transparency and transparency are the guiding principles for nuclear energy, for nuclear energy investments, for supervision, and that this should be ensured, and, similarly, the involvement of the public in the decisions on this subject, with as wide a range of information as possible to the general public. Compared to this, in recent years, we can say that in relation to the amendments to the nuclear law, they are increasingly taking away, let us say, the possibility of having a say in the local authorities in the given regions, and they are trying to centralise and centralize everything. So what we can say is that this is an extremely bad direction, an extremely dangerous direction, we basically see political intentions behind it. The LMP fraction will, of course, reject the entire bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-227	Thank you very much. Now I ask Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, as his author, he wishes to reflect now. [[For signal:]] No. Well, then, I can inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, so we are now going to have speeches from its representatives, and there is no opportunity for a two-minute comment. Speaking as a representative, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, please.
u2021-11-08-228	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Obviously, I would also like to give my group a more detailed opinion. We have said many times in recent years that we believe that nuclear energy is not green, it is not cheap and it is not safe. This is where there are very serious investments in Hungary that are indebted to generations, we are basically Paks II. We're thinking of your gigantic investment. We also said here that, basically, the government made the decision based on mistakes and lies, to give it to the Russians without a tender, and unfortunately, the situation will be confirmed. We obviously disagree fundamentally with the use of nuclear energy and enlargement, but it is visible and I think that no one can deny that there is a delay of many years here. It was not long ago that the Russian authorisation documentation of this gigantic investment was discarded, and this spring it was clear from the public hearing that the Hungarian Atomic Energy Agency, the licensing authority, discovered about five hundred problems of greater weight. Now, in comparison to this, we saw that Peter Szijjártó was immediately assigned to the centre of the Rosatom when the permit was discarded, and he said that the decisions on the timing of the investment would be made there. And we believe that this investment must be made, not in Moscow, but in Hungary, with the involvement of the Hungarian people. Here is the bigger problem, or we can say that it is a similar serious problem, that neither the government nor the Atomic Energy Office gave any meaningful information to the Hungarian public and Hungarian experts about the exact reason why the authorisation was rejected. But we do not know exactly why the National Atomic Energy Office has suddenly resigned as its former Director General this spring. We do not know the exact information about the criticisms that the government has not provided sufficient staff to carry out the screening of so many hundreds of thousands of pages of Russian documentation, so there may also be failed government decisions behind the fact that the Atomic Energy Agency is dealing with this documentation. I take advantage of the opportunity for the Secretary of State to be here and ask how the government sees it, how the Russian documentation will even be allowed to do so, taking into account domestic and European standards and the legislative environment, so it would be possible to do so. We can point out from Péter Szijjártó's statements that the government is aware of the exact reasons for rejecting the permit, but it is certainly alarming that in this process, in the process of authorising such a huge investment, the government has decided to transform the National Atomic Energy Agency, and in this way, as I have just said, it is practically outsourcing it, and intends to operate it as such an independent ministry, cemented in a two-thirds decision for the next nine years after a political appointment. I have a few more questions for the Secretary of State. You can see here that the majority of the Fidesz-KDNPs in Parliament have also adopted some extremely dangerous and harmful decisions, such as a bill on the government's proposal that it is possible to start working on land with Paks II. I don't have your main license yet. We consider this to be an extremely dangerous decision in two directions: firstly, in terms of economic risks, because here, in the absence of a permit, the risk at the beginning of the huge earthwork is not the Russian contractor, but Paks II. Zrt., the state-owned Paks II. Zrt. It is borne by Hungarian taxpayers; on the other hand, the issue of earthquake security was raised by Paks II. With regard to its site, and it can be seen that if the groundwork is started now, it will make it impossible to carry out further detailed geological tests, which is why we consider this to be extremely dangerous. I hope that we can get some kind of guidance from the Secretary of State on these issues. I can tell you that the LMP fraction does not, of course, contribute by voting to the outsourcing of the National Atomic Energy Office. We believe that Finland should not only be taken as an example, where a similar project is running in parallel, but the Hungarian government could have tracked or tracked the pattern that the Finnish government and governments are implementing. There, they provide complete information, full transparency, they take full account of the opinion of the population not only with regard to the nuclear or nuclear power plant project, but also, let us say, in the project of final disposal of nuclear waste, they started by examining where an area is accepted by the population, and where the project is not excluded from the social and economic point of view, unlike the Hungarian government and its predecessors. We are not naive, we know that the Hungarian government has not yet provided any meaningful information to the Hungarian public, and we still do not expect that this will be a huge mistake. In any case, in our own way, we use all means outside Parliament and parliament to provide the necessary information to the Hungarian public, Hungarian professionals and the Hungarian population. That is why I sent a letter today to the CEO of Rosatom, Alexei Lihachev, in which I informed him that we consider it necessary that, since the Hungarian Government does not give any substantive information on this investment, Mr Lihachev should take part in the meeting of the competent committee of the Parliament and give answers to opposition representatives, invited experts and representatives of the press. We're hoping to get more information from the CEO of Rosatom. And, I repeat, decisions on gigantic investment must not be made in Moscow, as the Hungarian government thinks, but in Hungary and, again, with the involvement of Hungarian people. Finally, I can say or confirm that this bill will be voted against by the LMP. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-229	Thank you. Congressman János Volner, an independent Member, would like to speak. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are several important tasks ahead of the new nuclear monitoring body to be set up in the near future. One of the important tasks will be to allow the Paks nuclear power plant investment and to finally start building it. Here I would like to remind my colleague László Lóránt Keresztes that your close allies in the Jobbik faction have supported this nuclear power plant expansion continuously since 2010, and in addition with Russian technology, this technology has also been selected and included in all electoral programmes as a betterie at the time. I am very sorry that there has been such a serious change of opinion in this area. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that when your allies, the socialists, ruled with the free democrats and then adopted a government decision on the need to expand the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, they still supported nuclear energy and now they no longer support it. Here, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that these are long-term investments, a nuclear power plant in itself being built for many years, and there is no confusion here, as you do. On a continuous basis, if we look back for a few years, they are already conflicting with themselves, for example, in terms of energy. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members here to the fact that we should no longer be talking about these two new blocks, but the other two new blocks, which have not yet been discussed, which will not be enough to cover Hungary's energy needs. The world is moving towards electric transport, we have to meet the energy needs of electric transport, the energy demand will increase in the near future, and I must say now that we can see how the dark green attitude strikes back in Germany or Austria. I would like to remind my fellow Members that Austrian disaster management is just showing pensioners how to drill flower pots, put candles under them, because there is probably no heat for Austria, there will also be no electricity, and this is how they will be warmed. The same is happening practically in Germany. The Austrians use the army to reassure the population that if the situation becomes critical, they will try to secure the energy supply of the most important facilities in this way. [[18.40]] I also think it is very important to say in this connection that when we talk about the fact that the government does not have the opportunity to direct control of a supervisory body, my fellow Members, this is a fundamental rule of law, that certain offices must operate independently from the current government, in order not to interfere with their operation. Therefore, if a new government comes, it will not be able to disrupt, for example, the ongoing nuclear power plant investment, which, where appropriate, consumes up to a thousand billion, but to carry out what is required by the legislation and the various security protocols. So don't let a political will destroy anything that you would otherwise like to destroy. I understand the wish, of course, that the Ferenc Gyurcsánys changed their minds; after several years they no longer support the introduction of nuclear power in Hungary or the expansion of it, but it is very important to see that this cannot be done in such a way that they suddenly start attacking this investment with every means. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-08-231	Thank you very much. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes in 18 seconds.
u2021-11-08-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Volner has once again come to the government's aid, as he has allowed us to get used to. I would just like to reassure you quickly that there is indeed a difference of opinion between opposition parties regarding the overall assessment of nuclear power, but there is no need to review the investment in Paks, which is bleeding from a thousand wounds. That's why after the change of government, that's how it's gonna be. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-233	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? That's okay. That's okay. That's okay. That's okay. [[No one's reporting.]] He doesn't want or can't, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the author, the Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Secretary Schanda has the floor, please.
u2021-11-08-234	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the comments and comments that have now been made in the debate and at the earlier stage of the adoption of the bill. The technical content of the bill was presented in detail by Mr Ádám Héjj, and I especially thank him for that. However, allow me to respond to what Mr Crusade Leader has said and to try to put the issue in a broader context for a few sentences. It is, after all, that we want to provide stable, predictable energy for the people of Hungary. This is what we call security of supply: electricity for all Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses who need it for their everyday lives. In addition, we want to do this in such a way that it is cheap, we want to do it in such a way that we can preserve the results of the reduction of the costs. We are talking a lot about this issue nowadays, absolutely rightly, because it is clear that the results of cheap electricity, the results of the reduction in overhead costs, are subject to countless attacks in the days and weeks. We can see these attacks from the direction of Brussels and we can also see these attacks from left-wing Members. The voice of the congressman is also fitting into this series. But we can see what the left-wing prime minister candidate says, who believes that maximizing the overhead costs is a communist idea, not the aim of the left is to stop the prices on the competition market at the border. The sentences of your left-wing Prime Minister's candidate, in which he constantly and consistently attacks the policy of reducing the rent, and wants to return to the failed Gyurcsányist policy, which resulted in the most expensive electricity prices being paid in Hungary by the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, in contrast to what is now, that we can provide them with the cheapest prizes. You are assisting in this policy, which is why you work every day, Mr. Head of the Cross, that is the case. That's pretty amazing. Moreover, if we are talking about climate protection, which would basically be expected to be an important issue for a pro-green politician, then the situation is clear and clear: the use of nuclear power, nuclear power, is a technology that is able to generate electricity without emissions, which is necessary for our daily lives. There are few such technologies, and technology that can provide this in a weather-independent manner is practically nuclear energy, which is available in Hungary, honourable Member. So the fact is that, if we take into account security of supply, the issue of cheap electricity, to be affordable, to protect the results of the reduction of electricity, to take into account climate protection, then it is clear and clear to all of us that nuclear energy is indeed needed in Hungary when creating the right energy mix. This is a matter of energy sovereignty and energy security. When you attack this directly or indirectly in your speech, you are against Hungary's energy sovereignty and energy security. That's the thing, Congressman. In order to use nuclear energy in Hungary, we need a strong office, because the issue of security must be the most important thing for all of us. We believe that the use of nuclear power is necessary under safe conditions, in a safe way, with safe supervision, because of the aspects that we have just said. Therefore, any proposal, any legislative amendment that strengthens this security and makes it possible to control nuclear power, is an important proposal. I am surprised, honourable Member, that you are attacking this, despite the fact that you can see that this is indeed necessary. We need a strong office, strong staff and strong organizational powers. In addition, in your speech, Honourable Group leader, you have presented countless false accusations, many of which have been refuted several times, partly here in Parliament, partly in other professional forums, and partly in the Hungarian public. But let me first draw attention to the absurdity that you're talking about outsourcing. How can we talk about outsourcing when during the National Assembly there is an office that is responsible for the National Assembly? To call the office under the Parliament outsourcing, therefore, honourable Member, it is nonsense and common sense that it is a political bluff; it is nothing more than what it does to bring political bluffs to Parliament. It is also clear and clear that the legislation clearly states what professional expectations the president of the OAH must meet. It is clear that there are serious requirements here, there are conflict of interest rules, all the rules that are necessary for such an office, and which, by the way, is already a well-established regulation at the energy office that has fulfilled its expectations. Moreover, not only do we say this, honourable Member, because there is a treaty, perhaps you have heard that we are part of the Euratom Treaty, and we are part of it in Europe, and so we have done so in the case of this legislation that we have announced it in advance to the European Commission, and the European Commission must take note of any such legislative changes. This happened. That is, not only do we say that this legislation is appropriate, but even the European Commission says so. Moreover, it is clear and clear that not only for this legislation, the European Commission says that this is appropriate, but also in the European Union, more and more countries recognise the need to achieve climate protection objectives only through the use of nuclear energy. This is happening all over Europe, Congressman. I think you're well-informed enough to see this exactly. Those who don't want to use nuclear power, they seem to have failed. Look at the Germans, what's going on. Look what's happening there. [[18.50]] They're buying nuclear power from France, and they're producing coal energy, and they're buying Polish electricity from coal power plants. Do you think this is a green solution? As a green politician, you want to generate electricity from coal power plants? This is absolutely unbelievable. So more and more countries acknowledge that Europe's energy security also requires nuclear energy, so that any such investment can only be supported. It also raised the question of why, in the case of technical specifications, the legislative opportunity of the OAH would appear. Here, allow me to draw your attention to two things. On the one hand, we are talking about technical details that require professionals, professionals of whom there are few in Hungary and who typically work at the office, so that is the right and the right way to do it, making it possible to legislate safely if these laws are created there. You don't want to go into politics against security, Mr. Congressman. It's not a good strategy. On the other hand, it should also be clear and clear that, in accordance with the Euratom Treaty, the regulations issued by the OAH should also be notified in advance, so that it goes through the approval process, like any other legislation. I do not assume that there is a serious mistake in the matter of professional incompetence, but rather of a little political malice, Member, that you are talking about the refusal of the OAH to grant the permit to set up. That's not true! Nothing like that happened. I have already told you this in a number of debates, and the Hungarian public has also shown that the office has ordered a replacement. We're talking about hundreds of thousands of pages here. Safety is the most important thing in nuclear power. It is clear that if there are any other issues, there must be a shortage, which is self-evident, because the aim of each of us is to have no other purpose than to have a secure facility, and if this is to be completed, then we need to fill in the gap, which is what the office has, by the way, used. And that is also the answer to what you said was that there will be, and there will be a permit when this is issued by the agency, because you find it appropriate to apply for the exact technical conditions of the licence up to the last technical parameter. I have already provided you with this information, not on one occasion, and the Office has also made it public, including on its website. Allow me, Congressman, to respond also to the sentences that have been asking questions about the number of people. Honourable Congressman, Here it is clear and clear what the government had to do earlier, when the OAH was still a government institution to ensure the necessary number of employees for the institution, and we have done so continuously: it has increased the number of colleagues working there by 76 people from 1 January to 1 July. It provided an opportunity to further employ retired workers; in 17 it allowed 40 full-time status, so it can be seen that in a few years there was an increase in the number of offices from the initial 79 to 180. That was all the staff needed, Mr President, so don't accuse us of not creating the necessary conditions for this, because we have done so, by the way, precisely because it is an important office which carries out important tasks. He also raised the question of earthwork, Congressman. Allow me to tell you that this is a preparatory activity. In fact, the European Commission has also approved the gap wall, so there is nothing here like what you have tried to suggest to do in order to carry out tasks that do not necessarily have the permits. It's not that! These are approved processes, which we do need, and which, at the current stage of the investment, must not only be done, but also done. With regard to transparency, your charges must be dismissed. You have asked a number of oral questions in writing, both in Paks II. to the Minister responsible for its development, and to the other Minister responsible for energy, to which, I believe, we have always been able to provide a professional, deep and clear answer to you. We have also given you clear answers, as we have already answered clearly and clearly in relation to the waste dumps, that without the approval of the Parliament, there will be no establishment of any kind on the basis of the legislation in force, nor will there be any such purpose. On the issue of earthquake security, you also mentioned a tops, Congressman. It should be clear here that the OAH examined this issue, qualified the area as appropriate. The mining department has also examined, external experts have been involved, and the recommendation of the International Atomic Energy Agency has, of course, been taken into account in all these processes. There have also been many debates about it, and we have also told you many times why a Russian solution is needed. Paks works, Paks I. works, made with Russian technology. An investment in a power plant alongside it would be unfortunate if it were to be done with any other technology, since it would raise security issues. I would also like to thank Mr Volner for his sentences in many respects, especially those by which he has highlighted the full impertinence of the left in this area as well. So I no longer have to repeat these sentences, but I must ask the Honourable Parliament, including the Head of the Cross Group, whom I hope I have managed to convince with my detailed answers to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-08-235	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The discussion of the Commission's report on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation follows. The government referral is H/17271. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Szilárd Németh, if he would like to speak. [[István Szilárd Németh: No, thank you.]] Well, clearly, it doesn't. Compared to that, honourable Members, what do you think? Would you care to comment? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee; no representative came forward. The debate is closed. I'm going to ask the clever question, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[István Szilárd Németh: No, thank you.]] I'm glad we understand each other, so you don't give a shit. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on measures to modernise individual procedures and further strengthen the security of citizens and the debate on the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17283. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to hear the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur for the Committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-236	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed measures T/17283 aimed at modernising certain procedures and further strengthening the security of citizens. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 21 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is, in fact, a package of proposals that brings together some amendments concerning very specific issues. On the one hand, it aims to broaden the framework for computer administration, which will allow easier, faster and safer administration in public administration, but also in the private sector. In particular, chat robot technology and speech and text recognition tools will be better exploited thanks to changes. [[19.00]] On the other hand, amendments to certain documents are included in the proposal, which will facilitate, inter alia, the use of e-signatures of the ID, in order to give a brief example. There are also major amendments to the legislation package, of which I would like to highlight the introduction of a so-called white card. The White Card aims to facilitate the stay of digital nomads in Hungary, but there are other foreign police proposals in the package that directly strengthen our protection against illegal migration. I am thinking of legislative changes aimed at ensuring public access to river passenger traffic data, amending the rules on removal or even more effective screening of asylum applications for persons fleeing from criminal liability. There are also a number of proposals in the draft which are of a legal nature and aimed at creating legislative coherence, as well as minor amendments that fall under the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior on their subject, but which would be disproportionate by reason of their scope, to negotiate them in a separate bill. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-237	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Pogácsás, Secretary of State, if he would like to speak now. [[On the sign of Tibor Scones:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. Members' speeches may follow. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. Obviously, Secretary of State Pogácsás did not reflect, but he can give an opinion. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-238	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the views of the Member who spoke in the debate and the Members who spoke in the previous debate. No amendments were tabled to the bill. The Ministry of Interior has 11 years of unbroken practice of seeking the opinion of the parliamentary parties in the event of fundamental provisions and of seeking to accept the proposals that are technically sound. Thank you, too, for the participation of Fidesz, KDNP, Jobbik and LMP, for their comments. The detailed discussion and the clarification of the language or legal technical nature required in the standard text were carried out in the context of the procedure of the Legislative Committee. With all this in mind, I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-239	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, An XCV of 2005 on the use of medicinal products for human use and other laws governing the pharmaceutical market follows. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/17275. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I'm going to ask the secretary of state, if you'd like to speak to me now. [[Dr. Ildikó Horváth:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth to give her an opinion. [[Dr. Ildikó Horváth:]] No, thank you very much. So I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the cross-border transformation, merger, division and other legislative amendments to the law for harmonisation of capital companies and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/17280. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the opinion of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Hey, Congressman David, the rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-240	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/17280 on the cross-border transformation, merger, division and other legislative amendments to the law on the merger of capital companies. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 3 against and 4 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the table of the House serves to fulfil Hungary's legal harmonisation obligation. The proposal transposes the Mobility Directive amending Directive 2017/1132 as regards cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions and the Digital Directive amending Directive 2017/1132 as regards the use of digital tools and processes in company law. Dear House, The most complex of the companies is the transformation, i.e. the change in company form, the merger and the division. These operations are even more complex if they are cross-border, since in this case the law of several States must operate in accordance. The Mobility Directive facilitates the free establishment of EU capital companies and the cross-border mobility of EU companies by allowing them to become companies under another law of the law of a Member State, to participate in cross-border mergers and divisions without having to terminate first by winding up. The Mobility Directive also allows the EU company to move more smoothly to Hungary. This could facilitate cheaper and more marketable operations for businesses. The Digital Directive regulates the process of setting up a limited liability company and a branch by electronic means and promotes the spread of online operations at both Member State and EU level. On the basis of the Digital Directive, it should be possible for limited liability companies to be registered online and for new branches to be created by the founders. The point of the directive is to ensure that a company is established without the obligation to have a physical presence before a public authority, which national law cannot regulate contrary to that objective, but at the same time the competence of a Member State to establish the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to ensure the functioning of the internal market, it is essential to have an adequate legal environment at EU level, including the establishment of national legislation, so that businesses' cross-border transactions can be carried out more smoothly, efficiently, quickly and safely, taking advantage of the digital acquis. This bill also seeks to comply with it, which is why it should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-241	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, if he would like to speak. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. Secretary of State Völner indicates that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain judicial and related laws and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/17282. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The first thing we can do is listen to the opinion of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-242	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws on judicial matters and related matters, T/17282. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 21 votes in favour, 10 against and 1 abstention. Dear House, The bill amending certain laws on judicial matters and related laws has been presented to the House in order to incorporate the related practical experience of the laws concerned into the laws, thus adapting them to changing social, organisational and technical conditions. The proposal proposes to amend a number of laws relating to the rules of law, taking into account practical experience and enforcement feedback. These include, for example, amendments to the law on the service relationship of judicial staff or to the law on legal assistance. The amendment of the Act on the right to self-determination of information and freedom of information is required by the case law and related questions relating to the general data protection regulation that has been directly applicable since 2018 due to the data protection reform in the European Union. [[19.10]] The amendments adopted by the Legislative Committee are justified in order to fulfil the obligations arising from EU law. The amendment of the patent protection law for inventions is also carried out along the lines of practical experience and feedback from professional organisations, on the basis of the proposal, with a view to fine-tuning the patent protection rules with regard to temporary measures that may be imposed in patent litigation. Dear Parliament, In this context, I would not go further on the content of the bill, but with regard to all proposals for amendments, it can be said that they serve to adapt to changing social and technical conditions, partly with technical clarifications and partly with substantive amendments. The proposal must be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-243	Thank you very much. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me now. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary? [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the amendment of the national referendum procedure follows. Presentation by Szabó Timea, Dialogue, and Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue, MEPs T/17004. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, who is present, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] You have the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-244	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal is clear and simple. The aim of the proposal is to hold a referendum on the day of the parliamentary election, on the day of the municipal elections, on the day of the European Parliament elections. This can be done by modifying the national referendum procedure, with a technical amendment, the. 41 days before it, then it cannot hold a referendum, it can be abolished. The Judicial Committee supported the proposal and no amendment was made, so the Legislative Committee did not discuss it. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-245	Thank you very much. I'll ask if someone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-08-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government supports the proposal.
u2021-11-08-247	Thank you. You've heard the government supports the proposal. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Members' speeches may follow. Anybody want to tell me? [[For signal:]] Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, please.
u2021-11-08-248	Thank you very much. Mr President, The LMP is the party for participation, of course we support all opportunities in which citizens can take part in decision-making, be directly involved, as through the referendum, and we also consider it appropriate to do so in national elections, so the LMP faction will support the proposal. Thank you.
u2021-11-08-249	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak, honourable Members? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. It is my duty first to ask the Secretary of State on behalf of the government that he wishes to speak again. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] You just made your opinion very clear. The rapporteur, Mr Kocsis, also indicates that he does not. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting, and I'll inform you. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain electoral laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. Member János Volner, independent, submitted by T/17265. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to hear the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-250	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/17265 amendment of certain electoral laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear House, According to the bill on the amendment of certain electoral laws, the restriction that national referendums may not be imposed on the day of the general election of Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament and Members of Local Government and Mayors, and within 41 days before and after that, would be abolished. In order for this to take place within the appropriate legal framework, it is necessary to ensure its practical and technical conditions. This is what the bill before us aims at, clarifying which of the two procedures should apply in such a case and laying down specific provisions for smooth operation. Ladies and gentlemen, Under the proposal, the concept of a common procedure will be introduced, the rules on joint notification, joint requests and the submission of ballot papers in the joint vote will be established, the rules of the electoral procedure law applicable in the case of a joint procedure in the referendum procedure will be laid down. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the House's table is necessary and reasonable both in terms of cost efficiency and in order to ensure the technical conditions for the conduct of elections and referendums, and I therefore call on this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-08-251	Thank you very much. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Volner, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] It says no. Government? (To be indicated:) Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-11-08-252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government supports him.
u2021-11-08-253	The government supports you, you've heard it. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Members' speeches may follow. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. It is my duty to ask Mr. Secretary of State if he would like to speak again. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] He indicated that he did not, for he had just made his opinion clear. Congressman Volner, as rapporteur, would you like to speak now? (To be indicated:) It says no. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, XCIX 2021 on emergency transitional arrangements follows. The Commission's reports on the entry into force of the Act and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/17279. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[A moment's pause. Dr. István György arrives in the Chamber.]] It was good for me, and for the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State entered at this moment, that I could take a minute's break here, and that the government would represent you properly. In the debate, the opinion of the Legislative Committee is the first. Mr Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-254	Thank you very much for the word again. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed XCIX of 2021 on emergency transitional arrangements. Act T/17279 on the entry into force of Act No. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I personally believe that in these times of trial it is essential to ensure the widest possible national cooperation and social solidarity. It has now become clear that it is the joint task of all of us to prevent, slow down the spread of the corona virus and to support the fight against infection, to protect human health and to restart the Hungarian economy. Responsible decisions must be taken by the Parliament and the government in times of crisis. The new variants of the coronal virus are spreading with unprecedented speed and consequences across Europe. [[19.20]] For this reason, I welcome the fact that the Government has turned to Parliament again, because it has declared an extraordinary legal order and has asked for its extension from the Hungarian Parliament until 1 January 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, It should be pointed out that we managed to manage the epidemic well because the country has joined forces. Of course, we needed excellent professionals, an excellent specialist in many areas, and we needed the discipline of our citizens. Our common goal is to put the plague behind us as soon as possible, including the next wave of the plague. Our chances are good, which is why it is very important that we continue to maintain discipline. We have a sufficient amount of vaccine available. Vaccinations are all effective and safe, the most important means of control against the epidemic. In Hungary, people who are vaccinated rarely get sick much less than those who are not vaccinated, so it is important that those who have not already done so should ask for vaccination. I would like to point out here that if the vaccination works, Hungary will work. Dear House, In view of the legal certainty and the legal requirements of the predictable regulatory environment, we have a bill before us, XCIX of 2021 on temporary emergency rules. It intends to bring into force, irrespective of the end of the emergency, at the dates laid down in this bill. It should be noted, however, that the draft also provides for certain provisions not to enter into force, since the transitional arrangements will be provided for in a separate law. For the sake of clarity, I would therefore like to draw up rules on the entry into force of the various provisions of the law, grouped together. 1. The bill on the House's table provides for the XCIX of 2021 on emergency transitional arrangements. the date of entry into force of the Act, which shall, in principle, be determined on 1 December 2021 in the light of the constitutional requirement of sufficient preparation time. 2. The proposal is made in accordance with Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. However, it contains a detailed list of the legal provisions which will not enter into force. As point 3, I would like to say that point 3. § 2 sets out the provisions of the law which, exceptionally, will enter into force on 1 January 2022. I would also like to add that the bill corrects the necessary corrections to the text in view of time. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, I consider the proposal to be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-255	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr István György, State Secretary, if he would like to speak as a rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Members' speeches may follow. Would anyone like to speak, honourable Members? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to give your opinion? [[Dr. István György: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2021-11-08-256	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There has been a lot of information from the TAB, so I would like to comment on just a few things, a little summary. The proposal therefore proposes that most of the provisions of the Act be put into effect without amendment before the end of the emergency, that some of the provisions of the Act be not put into effect, and that the other provisions of the Act be put into effect with a modified date. The review aspects described must be kept in mind, so the amendments to the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee have been made to this effect. According to this, it is not appropriate to bring into force the transitional rules contained in the implementing law relating to the status of aid in the current emergency situation or to local tax matters, from a codification point of view, from a legal point of view, at the present stage of the emergency, so it is not necessary to raise it to a statutory level, as the regulation remains sufficient to address the relevant period at the level of the emergency government decree. Dear Parliament, To sum up: the bill before this House creates legislative coherence with the amendment of the implementing law, which ensures that 27/2021 on the announcement of an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures The termination of an emergency situation under Government Decree No 1 and the expiry of emergency government regulations should not take place without the establishment of appropriate transitional provisions to deal with time loss. That is why I ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-257	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on public law and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17147. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The first thing we can do is listen to the opinion of the Legislative Committee. Mr Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-258	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/17147 amending certain laws on public law. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, The bill before us contains on the one hand a codification clarification of certain laws on public law and on the other hand clarifies the rules on the mandate of municipal representatives. To this end, the proposal would amend the law on the election of local government representatives and mayors and the law on the local governments of Hungary. According to the current rules of the municipal law, it only results in conflicts of interest for other municipal authorities if the representative simultaneously holds several municipal representatives' mandates. However, the relationship between the municipal mandate of the district and the municipal mandate of the metropolitan government is not regulated. In the light of the specific legal status of the Metropolitan Municipality, it is necessary to provide for rules of conflict of interest for the municipal representative elected in the metropolitan district and in the capital. By amending the Act on Electronic Communications, the method of public opinion polling, which is widely used in practice, as well as telephone calls initiated by random dialling, will also be legally regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the bill, the National Theatre History Museum and Institute will continue to operate within the framework of the Theatre and Film Art Foundation. This requires the transfer of property in the use of the Institute to the Foundation, which can make a significant contribution to the involvement of the National Museum of Theatre History and Institute in educational and scientific activities related to theatre history. The properties to be handed over continue to be used for the placement of the National Theatre History Museum and Institute, and the transfer of the Foundation's public service mission to operate the National Theatre History Museum and Institute to the property of the Foundation. Dear Parliament, The proposal also includes a number of forward-looking amendments and technical clarification, so I consider it justified and to be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-08-259	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr István György, that he would like to speak now. [[Dr. István György: Thank you, Mr. President, no.]] Thank you very much. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go. [[19.30]]
u2021-11-08-260	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs über 17147, force field. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/17147. on the proposal for a law amending certain laws governed by public law. This bill deals, among other things, with the amendment of Act L of 2010 on the Election of Local Representatives and Mayors. This law is important for indigenous nationalities in Hungary because, in several cases, in cases not directly regulated by the national authorities, the legislator refers to the regulations applicable to local local authorities. During the general debate, I explained in detail with reference to specific legal bases that, at the beginning of the year, certain government regulations in the context of an emergency, along with the laws on disaster management and Mötv., led to a conflicting situation. In particular, mayors and local government presidents may have taken decisions on behalf of the body of representatives, for example on the reorganisation, termination of the municipal institution, supply areas, if the service also concerns the municipality, but the exercise of the powers of resolution was not allowed by the mayor and the chairman of the local government in the event of an emergency. This has led to a conflicting situation in the case of national minority self-governments where, for example, the adoption of the rights of the maintenance rights of a nationality public education institution or the appointment of the head of a national minority public education institution has been made possible by the regulation to the President of one national minority self-government, but the regulation has not allowed the other President of the national minority self-government to exercise the legal right of opinion and the powers of resolution. There was legal uncertainty in the interpretation of the situation that, although the right to an opinion had responded to the request for an opinion within the time limit, but by indicating that it could not exercise its right of opinion under the restriction in Kat., the right to a decision may then be taken legally by the authority to take over the institution or appoint a head of the institution. This situation has caused significant problems and legal uncertainty in the event of an emergency. As the pandemic situation improved, the government regulations cited and Kat. This problem has now been resolved, fortunately, by resolving some of its provisions, by re-eligating minority self-government meetings. However, we would also like to draw the legislator's attention to the future avoidance of this anomaly insofar as the expected deterioration in the pandemic situation may require the re-introduction of stricter regulation. Unfortunately, there's a real chance of that. Overall and to sum it up, our committee has said that it is T/17147. It agreed with its amendment intentions, without expressing an independent intention to amend it. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary adopted the T/17147 on the amendment of certain laws on the subject of public law. It agrees with and supports its adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2021-11-08-261	Thank you very much. Members' speeches may follow. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no speeches were made, the debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, István György, if he would like to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2021-11-08-262	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The designated rapporteur for the TAB also spoke in more detail about the law, and I would not do that now, so I would like to conclude with just a few sentences my thoughts on the final debate on the proposal, the bill. The legislation contained in the proposed legislation will make the functioning of the public bodies concerned more efficient and thus better serve the needs of citizens and the further development of the country as a whole. In addition, the government is constantly developing Hungary's public procurement system, working to ensure competition and transparency, not only through legislation, but also through other measures. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-08-263	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the introduction of the data change management service and the amendment of certain laws relating to the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17277. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the Parliament is negotiating as a minority item. First, the position of the Legislative Committee: Mr Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-264	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the introduction of the data change management service and the amendment of certain laws relating to the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens T/17277. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In recent years, the government has initiated a number of measures to facilitate the administrative administration of citizens and simplify administrative procedures. In addition to simplifying procedures, this concept also includes the bill, which aims to reduce the bureaucratic burden on citizens as a result of the reporting of data changes, as a result of the revision of the current rules on utility transcription. Ladies and gentlemen, The important innovation of the bill on the House's table is the creation of a data change management service, hereinafter referred to as the AVSZ, which provides for the possibility of simple processing of changes in the data of natural persons and, on the other hand, the electronicisation and simplification of the utility transcription process. The law on the metropolitan and county government offices is a new 1. According to point 3 of Article 3 of the Act, an electronic communications service provider, a district heating service provider, a electricity service provider and a water utility service provider have been contracted to the AVSZ. The AVSZ may also be used as a customer by natural persons having a storage space for the use of an electronic identification service which the government is obliged to provide and for the related secure delivery service, after registration, in which they may determine which service providers they are in contractual relations with. The draft also specifies that the data change management service provider shall keep records of events related to the IT system and its records, the loss of data, and that it shall keep a uniform core record to ensure the identification of the client and the legality of the processing by means of the AVSZ. In compliance with the constitutional requirements of the legislation, the necessary provisions for data processing will also be laid down in law. The AVSZ itself is therefore a data transfer service provided between customers and connected service providers, within which two types of services are and can be distinguished. [[19.40]] The first is that during the data change reporting service, the customer may initiate the transmission of its changed data to the service providers via the AVSZ in a government window or electronically. In addition, the SAO shall transmit the data specified in the Act to the connected service providers, either automated or on the basis of a case-by-case authorisation, according to the customer's provision. The second part of the types of services: in the context of the user change reporting service, the customer may also provide a government window or electronic permission for the data change management service provider to notify the public utility service provider of any changes in the user's identity and of the necessary data. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is also intended to make the lives of citizens easier in administrative matters and to make the process of administration smoother and faster. It is also a priority that the convenience services provided by the government should be known and used by as wide a range of citizens as possible, and I therefore consider the proposed legislation to be supported. Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-08-265	Thank you very much. I will now ask the rapporteur, Mr István György, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now. [[Dr. István György: Thank you, Mr. President, no.]] Thank you very much. The designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur, I'll inform you. However, he has applied for a speech, so I give him the floor, Mr Félix Farkas, rapporteur for the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-266	Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is responsible for the implementation of Article 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution, house rules 44-45. T/17277 on the introduction of the data change management service and amending certain laws relating to the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee for the bill is the house rule 32. According to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the House Rules, by examining the provisions of the notification, i.e. the whole of the bill, it concluded that they were in conformity with the house rules. § (1) (a) to (d), i.e. they meet the requirements of content and form arising from the Fundamental Law, fit into the unity of the legal system, comply with obligations arising from international law and European Union law and the professional requirements of legislation. The Committee shall be composed of representatives of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. At its meeting on 26 October X, he started and conducted a detailed debate on the bill, and at the meeting he unanimously decided to close the detailed discussion of the bill by 13 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against. The Committee did not comment on the proposed amendments to the bill nor did it intend to make any further amendments. Even during the general debate, I pointed out that it is to be welcomed that the proposed amendment to 14 laws aims to expand the scope of electronic services that customers can use and to offer comfort services to customers in various official procedures. The pandemic has taught the world how to use electronic services, even our senior citizens who do not use the Internet every day, and it is therefore particularly welcome that the 1991 XLI on notaries is a 1991 XLI. In the future, the law also allows for the use by a customer of certain data processing services in the registration of the legal act on which the registration is based in the course of the registration of a notary document. In the same way, procedures will be made easier for the lawyer in the future in the registrar proceedings or in the probate proceedings. The government fully recognised the need to make improvements in the transfer of data from different life situations, which is why 1795/2020 decided. by decision of the Government on the introduction of the data change management service. XX of 1996 on identification methods replacing the identification mark and the use of identification codes The current amendment of Law 1 is intended to ensure compliance when it also places certain data to be transmitted to the data change management service provider as part of the regular reporting obligations of the Personal Data and Address Register. In addition to data protection and data security guarantees and the reduction of administrative burdens, natural persons may therefore be notified of changes in their name, address and document identification data in public registers by providers who have contractual relations with the natural person concerned. The fact that district heating service providers, electricity dealers, gas dealers and universal service providers and water utility providers are obliged to accept and manage the user's notification of changes in user data from 1 December 2021 and from 1 January 2022 will also be a great relief, not only because they will not have to take leave to enter into a public utility contract, but also because the data correctly provided will always be transmitted to service providers. Our fellow citizens with nationality names will also not have to carry a Calvary in order to correctly record their name or their mother's name or place of birth with each service provider. Taking into account the provisions of the bill, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary amended certain laws relating to the introduction of the data change management service and the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens T/17277. The amendment closing the in-depth debate is not submitted and the report on the in-depth debate is adopted. The committee agrees with the bill and proposes that it be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-267	Thank you very much. Members' speeches may follow. A representative requesting a normal word, Mr László Hajdu, has applied for a speech, a representative of DK. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm a member of the TAB, and I didn't speak to him there, but I think that the oral additions, which have shown very nicely what kind of service development we are facing, have succeeded a little too well compared to living practice, and I will basically put a question in my comment. At present, regarding the subscribers of utility service providers who are in contractual relations, the contract that the utility company knows in many cases and the person who uses the service is in chaos. So it's not the same people, those people are all over the place, there's a lot of people who've already passed away, and they have completely different family members and heirs in it, but they had no interest in transferring electricity bills or other accounts, and they've already paid for it. The introduction of such a rapid deadline as one of the issues is at risk that this system is able to clarify this. The other: when the contractual party lives in a rental, the transcription of these, when the tenant changes, the tenant moves on, changes or evicts, is in even worse condition at the moment, I think. So, in order for this to be introduced so quickly, and in one stroke, everything will work out nicely and well, I doubt it. The second part of the question is that the particular situation is where the contracting party is different from the municipal property or private property, but the contract is in the name of the owner, so whoever pays the public utility fee, the various charges for public utility services, resides in the apartment, but is not the owner of the apartment to filter them out. [[19.50]] And I have a third question in the context of this comment. This applies when the service provider comes to change watches, change meters, perform various services and clarifications, and it turns out that the watch is not in the name of the person to whom he has arrived. How are these cases going to be handled? I think that the clarification of these may take years, and I see so much chaos now, at the moment, in this state. The intention is good, and I think that if it can be implemented, we are making a big step forward. Perhaps one more page, I would like to mention a question. There's the purchase of so-called zero certificates. The purchase of zero certificates meant that you had to go to the public service companies, line up there and prove that your account was paid. That's when it became clear in many cases that he wasn't even the contractor. Can this electronic program also provide a zero certificate? so that it is not necessary to go to 14 utility companies for the future in order to be able to submit a tender, such as a flat application, to prove to each utility company that it is zero. And there's a series of things, starting with the bank, everyone's asking for these zero certificates. Does that make it easier? That's what I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-269	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to tell me? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has come forward for further debate, the debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Mr István György State Secretary, if he would like to reply and give an opinion. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2021-11-08-270	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Once again, I would like to point out that Tamás Herczeg, the designated speaker of the TAB, has said many things about the bill, and I would not like to repeat them. I would like to answer Mr László Hajdu's questions that this new regulation, which the AVSZ has set out, is, after all, a convenience service for those who are in contact with utility service providers, either with a view to facilitating the notification of changes in their data or of user change. Obviously, there are many living situations that Mr President has mentioned, whose regulation and facilitation will mean additional tasks for users. This proposal alone will obviously not solve any such problems, but it is also a huge thing that the announcement of the change of data does not have to happen to all public service providers, but only in one place, and here the additional tasks will be the task of the AVSZ, so they will forward it to all public service providers, not have to go through all public service providers. In the regulatory register, you can indicate to which utility service providers the customer, user, is asking for such information to be provided, and if you do so to all utility service providers with whom he is in a contractual relationship, you really do not have to do anything other than make this announcement online. It does not need to be accompanied by a large number of documents that are currently requested by a public utility from the contract to the certificate of title, but is based on a declaration principle, and can practically arrange for this transcription to be carried out by all public utility providers. He's transferring responsibility to individual responsibility. Obviously, here, if you like, everyone is speaking with their criminal responsibility, and if, at any time, it turns out that someone has provided false data, then the utility provider can terminate the contract with them with immediate effect. So, in fact, the facilitation also builds on civil responsibility. This is a change of approach, it does not need to provide virtually all kinds of certificates in advance, but the declaration principle further obliges utility service providers to accept this declaration. So let the change of data be the marriage, whatever name change this system can handle, or the change of user. Therefore, in the case of municipal property, for example, if there are other contracting parties, the contracting party itself can do here to announce this change of data, if he has a title, of course, for that apartment, and can indicate that in the future he will be the one applying to utility service providers as a payer or user. The issue of zero certificates is not yet known by the system, but it is a system under development, so, in addition to data change and user change, of course, our aim is to widen this service platform as much as possible, and obviously our aim is to provide the greatest possible convenience with this expansion. I think that this is still a paradigm shift compared to the previous one, because it saves customers a lot of inconvenience, and they are obviously able to continue to live on a voluntary basis. Anyone who does not wish to make use of this does not introduce in the regulatory register which utility companies he requests this transmission to, then, of course, in his case, the former order is valid. We sincerely hope that the 21st century In the 20th century, more and more of the elderly in the IT world are already Internet users and we hope to use the data change management service as widely as possible. We believe that this is a simple possibility of administration, which, as a new service to be introduced, can also count on one of the largest users in the future, and we sincerely hope that this will be the case. On this basis, we also ask that the Honourable Parliament support the bill before us, which reduces the administrative burden on citizens and points to the electronic administration of the whole circle, taking into account the benefits presented. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-271	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. For the first time, Fidesz's representative, Mr Horváth László, spoke after the agenda with the title "Gyöngyös" from road renovation. Here you go.
u2021-11-08-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As they say, a contractor is happy twice: once he comes when he goes. But when it comes to road renovation, many do not rejoice when it comes, because many people, based on bitter experiences, no longer believe that busy roads in use can be renovated quickly, in good quality, and rebuilt in such a way as not to paralyze the transport and life of a settlement, a city; so that it does not become a nightmare to achieve a long-awaited road development. In Gyöngyös, in the last 14 working weeks, the first stage of road 24 reconstruction proved the opposite of the above negative, pessimistic position. It has demonstrated that it can be done with thorough preparation, professional preparation, proper and regular information, good organisation of work, care and patience, and that this is the only way to rebuild the road quickly and in good quality. [[20.00]] The reconstruction and reconstruction of the urban crossing section of road 24 in Gyöngyös was the greatest challenge both professionally and socially in the renovation of the road stretch of 15 kilometers from the centre of Gyöngyös to Mátraháza, to which the Government of Hungary provided a source from the Hungarian framework. Thank you for that. The urban section of Route 24 is not only used by people living in the area of Gyöngyös and Gyöngyös, but also by visitors to Mátra. And the attraction of Mátra, thank God, has been greatly strengthened in recent years, as indicated by the doubling of the number of guest nights in Mátra. Thus, a modern and secure roadway and traffic technology had to be built that, tuned to a green wave, could quickly pass through the city significantly increased local and tourist traffic over the last decade. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) All along, the primary objective was to ensure not only the safety of the vehicle, but also the safety of public transport and pedestrians, including the installation of equipment for the transport of disabled people. All pedestrian crossings, old and new traffic hubs were insured with traffic lamps at the nearly two kilometers of work. Each bus stop has been rebuilt with a special basalt concrete process that will ensure load capacity and long service life. On the new road surface self-leveled roofs, leveled utility boards make transport comfortable, and at the points of the junctions, extra masphalt milling, foundation and special bonding will avoid the creasing of asphalt in the future. Blind and weak-sighted fellow citizens will be helped in future by tattile stones and special remote control technology in safe transport. It's not about statistics. Without the need for completeness, allow me some data to indicate the size of the company. In one month, a 3 000-meter edge was built with demolition, three new signal-lamp nodes were built, five existing nodes were rebuilt. Seven refurbished bus stops, 1,400 tons of concrete used, 1100 tons of asphalt, laid down and installed 3 thousand tons of asphalt, and at the same time grab hold, honourable fellows on this road passed by more than 4100 buses every week without any problems, because on this section there is also a bus station in the city. The goods reached the services and shops here, the workers' services were running, the city was working all the time, there were no unbearable plugs, no fists. What can I say now? Thank you. Thank you to everyone who has been involved in the success of this enterprise. I should like to thank the road operator, the contractor, who always performed his task in good quality before the deadline, the Volán company, the city, the city police, who helped enforce the rules, helped transport, and all his pearlers, who received the inevitable restrictions with patience and understanding, were attentive, careful, helpful in order to make this investment successful. Because every investment is a test of cooperation, and Gyöngyös has passed an A. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-273	Thank you. I welcome my fellow Members. Speaking after the next agenda is Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group: . Our city, Pécs 75. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-11-08-274	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the National Day of Grief, on November 4, we remembered the heroes and victims of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, and we bowed our heads to all those who fought bravely for freedom, for the country, against the brutal, vast outnumber. Allow me, as a Member of Pécs, to remember specifically those who continued the longest armed battle, who carried the flame of the revolution for the longest time. They were the Invisible Invisibles of Mecsek, the heroes of Pécs and its region, who continued armed resistance in the Mecsek for weeks after November 4. One day before the siege of the capital city, on November 3, 1956, because of the outnumber, the Soviet army could enter Pécs almost without fighting. On hearing the news, the password was given to the Mecsek in the morning. Some of the troops organized to protect the city went to the Mecsek to regroup there, and they went up to the mountains with the rest of the troops stationed there. Whole young people, Hungarian soldiers, students, young workers, all-enhanced civilians, often fought against the total Soviet outnumber with food and thirst for days and untimely handguns. Their leader was Dr. Géza Horváth, a medical doctor, a reserve officer who used the cover name "Gazda." On November 6, János Kubicza arrived with the team, who was inaugurated at the Ludovika, and ended World War II as a captain. He was a member of the team with the highest military experience, and he knew the Mecsek well, so he was asked to be the military leader of the team. On the afternoon of November 6th, they arrived at Vámotpuszta, the pre-selected headquarters. There must have been about 300 of them, some bullets, machine guns, rifles, but little ammo and a Csepel truck. On November 7th, the freedom fighters took an oath in Vámotpuszta. That's where they started their operations. In the knowledge of the great dominant position, the Soviets were initially presumptuous and suffered serious losses. Between 5 and 8 November, the Mecsek stopped several attacks, according to the narratives, the steep roads were filled with oil, so the trackers slipped and could not move forward. That's when they were able to surprise and disable the tanks. At the Mecsekgate, a tank was fired, more forced to retreat. The fights here were led by Antal Lux. On November 5-6 there were fierce fights on the high road and Tetty. The nearby houses were shot by the Soviets, knowing that the revolutionaries were hiding there. Well, they weren't wrong. Several people died at that time. On November 10th, it was suspected that the Soviets knew the location of the freedom fighters. Then they decided to relocate to Kisújbánya. On November 11th, the high-watcher detected strong armoured activity. They set off in the dusk and arrived at Kisújbánya through the Hidas Valley. In the evening, another unit arrived, who said that before their departure the Soviet and Vávos forces had launched an attack on Vápotpuszta. A total of about 200 people arrived at Kisújbánya. In East Mecs too, freedom fighters have touched on countless points, and many actions have been carried out. They got to the police station in Pécsvárad, where weapons were looted, and in several cases valley bridges were closed down. This was their last military operation. On November 15, they decided to return to Vávotpuszta, taking into account all the circumstances. On November 16, it became clear that the West is not helping Hungarian revolutionaries, it is not supporting the Hungarian revolution, it is not sending help. At that time, Captain Géza Horváth and Captain János Kubicza gathered the remaining warriors in Vámotpuszta, exonerated them from their oaths, and disbanded the Hungarian Freedom Fighter group. Nevertheless, until 22 November 58 people remained together and fled from Soviet troops after them to Yugoslavia. Several left the country, but some couldn't keep up, stayed behind, while others headed for the Somogy forests. With the intervention of the Soviets and later the Hungarian police, they slowly captured the Hiding Resistance and eliminated the Freedom Fighting Group. Their acts, their courageous opposition, will always be remembered. Respect for the heroes! Thank you.
u2021-11-08-275	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Member Tamás Herczeg, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post-scheduled speech with the title "Developments of MVP in Peace." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-276	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. After Pearly and Pécs, Békéscsaba. In my speech after the agenda, I would like to report on the various developments of the programme "Modern Cities" but I believe that due to the shortness of time, I can take on the development of transport infrastructure in the first place. Maybe there'll be another time when I can talk about other improvements. When Vice-President Alpár Gyopáros visited Békéscsaba last September, he informed us that Békéscsaba is one of the first three county seats in terms of the use of the sources of the programme and the speed of investment. As you said, Békéscsaba will be one of the winners of the MVP, and we of the county of Békés know that unfortunately our city was one of the biggest losers of the system change. After the change of regime, Baranya and Békés were the two counties that suffered the worst economic downturn. Industrial production per capita, retail turnover, GDP and average income were very low in peace at national level. [[20.10]] Unfortunately, the population in this county has also lost the highest rate. The local economy was basically built on agriculture and the food industry, and this sector suffered a dramatic crisis in the 1990s. So something had to be done to give Peaceful County a chance. For about two and a half decades after the end of socialism, the people at the storm pole found deaf ears in the case that the development of transport infrastructure would be necessary, which would provide a basis for the removal of the region's separation and isolation. Unfortunately, the European Union has not supported the implementation of the M44 route, because it is not a transit route linking the larger territorial units of the continent. In the last quarter of a century, the expected achievement of the M44 has been made with many promises, the most memorable lurking in 2022. I heard it from Péter Medgyessy campaigning in Békéscsaba as a candidate for the Socialists at the time, and he promised that the M44 expressway would be ready by 2006. Of course, nothing came of his promise, the construction had not even begun, let alone finished by then. In 2014, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán promised that the civilian government would build the long-awaited highway. In addition to many others, the government has announced road development and rail development on an unprecedented scale, worth nearly HUF 2400 billion within the .Modern Cities programme. One of the first developments was the construction of the M44 motorway, which became the largest investment in Békéscsaba's MVP programme and the national MVP programme. Thus, the largest-caliber development is implemented in peaceful service, and the largest-caliber development is still under way from nearly 400 billion forints. In addition, this is only the amount spent on the main expressway, the Hungarian village in the framework of the program, and in many places the lower roads are renewed, and they can be built in Békés county. The development of the Modern Cities programme in peaceful Csaba is organized around about three nodes. Many believe that improving the availability and accessibility of the city is the most important. There is no doubt that we have achieved significant results in this matter. So the section of the M44 road between Békéscsaba and Tiszakürt was completed. While we used to have to drive through five settlements to get to Kecskemét, it is now possible to travel for at least half an hour without touching the inhabited areas. In December of this year, another part of the two-track concrete strip will be handed over, so we can now use the new bridge over the Tisza and drive from Békéscsaba to Lakitelek at a speed of 110 km/h. Of course, the work has not yet been completed, and work is already being done on a shorter five-mile stretch, and soon, hopefully by the end of 2024 until 2025, I think it is certain that after another 32-mile contiguous phase has been completed, and this is very important for us in Békés County to finally stop narrowing the blood vessels at Kecskemét, and the M44 and M5. Also the city's availability is improved by the planned airport development but I can see that the five minutes have passed; I said that I can get to about this part. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll tell you again, in case I get a chance to talk about the rest. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-08-277	Thank you, Congressman. Our speaker after the next agenda is Mr Bence Tuzson, representative of Fidesz:. Cradle and kindergarten development in the 5th constituency of Pest county. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-08-278	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The 5th Constituencies of Pest County, Dunakeszi, Fot, God, Csomad, Csomör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház are one of the fastest developing regions of the country; it is a great pleasure for us, and it is thanks to the fact that there are people here who love to work and love the work and achieve a performance that makes this area the most developing region in the country. Many people are here, and the population of this area has also increased. There are now more than 125 thousand people living in this constituency, which means that on the one hand, many people move there, and many young people, and many children. The fact that there are many children there and many young people, of course, also imposes an obligation on us, on the one hand, to improve transport in the field of transport development, on the other hand, in the Parliament, in the field of health development and, of course, in the area of school development. I have already talked about the development of schools, the development of secondary schools and the development of primary schools here before the National Assembly. Dear Parliament, However, we must also remember the developments that have been made since 2014 to help the smallest, the smallest, that is to say, daycare and kindergarten. Indeed, we have made significant progress in kindergartens as well, since, together with the development of kindergartens and kindergartens, 25 of our facilities have been developed, which, on the one hand, represent enlargement, but also the construction of several new institutions. In terms of the number of seats, because if we are talking about kindergartens or crèches, it is worth remembering the seats in the first place, 978 978 in the case of kindergarten seats! We've created a new kindergarten space. This is a great help to those who live in the constituency, because those who work for me have five children, as a family father of five, I know exactly what help it is, that if there is a place to take the child, there is a place to take the child to kindergarten. We have also made significant progress in the area of cradle development, as 200 new seats have already been completed and 112 additional beds are being completed, as a new cradle is being built at the moment in Csömör, Foton and Dunakeszin, so many of these developments can be implemented. Perhaps the greatest development we can say that we can be the proudest in this area was achieved by expanding Treasurem Kindergarten, which is one of the largest kindergartens in the country, if not its largest kindergarten. There, 275 new seats were created, so this is one of the most serious developments no wonder, as Göd has a lot of young people and very many children. Here, however, it is regrettable that there was also a cradle development in progress, which meant HUF 480 million, so the municipality received this amount of money for the development, but unfortunately, the municipality gave up this development, and gave back HUF 480 million, so that four group rooms would have fewer cradles in Göd, which, I think, will be missing; the Gödians, the families in Göd, would miss it, because this would mean 56 seats in total. But overall, we also need to go further in the field of kindergarten development and kindergarten development, because our goal, our basic goal, is to help all those who have families and who start families. But it is important to note that any construction means nothing more than stacking bricks together than plastering paint, filling this with content, and thanking those kindergarten educators and those who look after our children in the crèches to do this work, because it is not a job in itself, this profession knows precisely who entrusts their child to someone. And finally, allow me to thank you, thank all those who follow me through the TikTok. Dear followers, thank you very much, and I would like to thank you again for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-08-279	Thank you. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, also applied for a statement after the agenda:. Order in building law! It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-08-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The challenges of the agglomeration settlements are growing, as we have heard from the solo before me, the large-scale population moving in must not only be provided with infrastructure, but also with institutions, crèches, kindergartens and schools, but I would like to devote this speech today not to this topic, but also to the fact that the support for home creation often does not allow young families to start their life together in Budapest, so they often buy real estate in the area of the capital, thus increasing the number of people living here. [[20.20]] This would basically not be a problem if we could find the right answers to the challenges that have often been mentioned and if government intentions provided sufficient resources to all municipalities and all municipalities in the region. It is important that both the legal environment and the resources from the budget allow sufficient P+R parking, sufficient nursery and nursery space, as well as adequate public transport, porter services, and long list. Today, however, this speech was inspired by a drama that we did not think would become such a bloody reality. The mess in the building law has resulted in the separation of regulatory and control powers, and the municipalities have no possibility to control, warn, and redeploy construction plans, which is a governmental power. In the rarest case, government agencies notice in time that if a condominium or any property that is being built at the moment does not comply with existing legislation or local construction regulations. This is an area where the principle of subsidiarity is of paramount importance, because it is almost never visible from the government office, which the local administration or local population even at first sight notice. The so-called condominiums, which do not comply with local regulations, create undivided common property that puts customers of these apartments in a bad position. By the way, I note that in many cases these young families are on a sort of forced orbit, coming from a social group or a material situation in which they can understandably make every effort to receive their children under orderly conditions so that they can start the nursery so that they can start the kindergarten. There's nothing wrong with this effort. At the same time, these construction contractors put them in a very bad position with the undivided common property, not to mention that the property owners who have long lived in the agglomeration and, if any, live in the family-married area, because, indeed, monstrums with 6-8 apartments are built in a suburban environment that destroy not only the settlement image, but also the well-being for which it is otherwise attractive to move to the agglomeration settlements. It is important to note that new homeowners of many apartments in the back streets of previously married agglomeration suburbs are often disappointed, because they longed for a quiet, airy home which, by the way, provides them with a greener environment than a lot of concrete in Budapest, rather than this overcrowding that they eventually received. But the fact is that now the mess in construction law has brought the following: the government office has condemned two of these condominiums to be demolished. Families with less financial status who bought these apartments, who moved here in the hope of such a peaceful life, thought that they could start raising their children by using the CSOK, because of the unorganized building powers, these families could now destroy all their wealth. I'm hoping there's a remedy, by the way. But this would never have been the case if regulatory and control powers had not been separated. This situation would never have been created if they had listened to the municipalities within the walls of Parliament who said that they could always tell what the real estates were [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] which shouldn't have been built, let alone eventually pissed off and deceived by these families. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-08-281	Thank you. MEP László Varju, representative of DK, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech. What is happening in Újpesten? He said that he had spoken after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-08-282	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. As a representative of Budapest's 11th constituency, I have recently drawn attention to the fact that the start of an independent life by acquisition of property because of the sky-high housing prices in Budapest has been almost impossible for young people in Újpest and Angelland. My inn class has dramatic experiences, where, in essence, new families who are hopeless are looking for housing, but there is no lasting solution for them. However, because of the resources taken from the municipalities, there is no new project, so there is virtually no possibility of accessing the apartment. Given the increasingly critical circumstances over the years, I think we can now see the situation as a social problem. Families, especially young families, can only pay rent monthly, but without parental help they have no chance of getting their own apartment. A further anomaly is caused by the fact that the so-called green loan launched by the government, which is good for the rich once again, will only increase prices. It is expected that in the case of new apartments, one million forints per square metre will be requested in the outer districts as well. But we can't stop here, because the program launched by the Hungarian National Bank creates a new wave of debt beyond some privileges, but it doesn't really help the large majority. I think that not only will they be able to take up 70 million HUF or may have the right to start a single life in Hungary, but we need a comprehensive home support system for all start-up family founders. In this system, there is a need for rent support through municipalities, a rental-building programme with the participation of municipalities, and a panel program involving the modernisation of existing apartments with the self-reliance of owners, which provide a solution immediately and within a reasonable period of time without the debt of the Újpest and the angelic families. Ladies and gentlemen, You pretend not to know that a significant proportion of young people, for example, cannot dream of their own apartments, because, in addition to the price of millions of square meters, collecting self-force is an impossible mission for them. Those who somehow insist on such a loan will not be left for the smallest holiday after the instalments or the known food prices and fuel prices. Because of the pressure and the overwhelming burden, many families may be in crisis, not just financially. This is more than a problem to be solved. You're on the wrong track with today's system, you need a new perspective. But I feel, ladies and gentlemen, that you here in the pro-government benches are no longer able to do so, nor do you want to do so, perhaps, I think that is the biggest problem that you do not want to change. There is no other option than a new coalition government creating the necessary means to reduce the burden, creating an opportunity for everyone to make decisions not only for the sake of a narrow elite, but also for the well-being of many families. Future families need rent support, rent building and a panel program to start a safe, independent life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-08-283	Thank you. At the same time, MEP László Hajdu, representative of DK, has applied for a speech after the agenda:, Merry Christmas to everyone! It's an address. I give you the floor. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-08-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Yes, Merry Christmas to everyone, this is the title I gave to my post-meeting comment. Although I have to add, the agendas before me, the Fidesz fraction had three fantastic results, which is not about poverty at all, either the renovation of Route 24 or the renovation of Route 44 or the 978 cribs or kindergarten seats in the territory of a representative. I have to add, there are 80,000 residents of the XV. District and 670 kindergarten seats, and here in a cycle they could build so many kindergarten places, that's fantastic. Obviously, everyone knows that nothing could be achieved elsewhere in terms of compensation, because this money did not go in a normative way, but on the basis of other individual decisions. [[20.30]] So he who is poor is the poorest, which was written by Attila József in his poem a hundred years ago. I think this is particularly true in my constituency. I speak because the Advent holidays are coming, Christmas is coming, the holiday of love, the holiday waiting, but many people don't have the problem with what I'm going to buy as a gift for my child, my grandson, but the fact that I can pay the electric bill is going to give me enough money to buy the medicine, these are my main problems, not to mention that I can pay the rent with the rent that belongs to it, or get an apartment, because at the moment I can't even pay rent. I was thinking about these poor people when I wish everyone a merry Christmas. I think that the address is for those who know that they can prepare for Christmas, that there will be something to celebrate Christmas, but let us not forget that those living in our environment are not sure that they will have Christmas. To help them, I think we need to work together. As there has been political cooperation on the opposition side, social cooperation is needed here. In Rákospalota, in Pestújhely, in Újpalota this constituency is currently 6,000 families, out of 34 500 6,000 families should receive regular support from the municipality, because otherwise there are problems with their daily livelihoods, and also 4,000 families will receive occasional, ad hoc grants. If we put this together, 10,000 of the 34 500 families. This is what the social situation in an external district of Budapest looks like today. The wealth that we have heard of does not even come to light, nor does it occur to us what we will build, since more than 3 billion is the amount that the XV. This year, this government took me away from the municipality of the district to the various references and figures. Annex XV is amended as follows: district is only a district, with a total of HUF 90 billion from Budapest and its districts this year. Under these circumstances, we have decided to call on the people and organise a fundraiser for Christmas so that everyone can have a nice Christmas. We were on the street for the first time on Friday. It was touching that the poor first moved to help the other poor man, but I think every Friday we go out on the street and literally beg the poor in the district. We think we can make a better Christmas for about 190 poor families. Thinking of these 190 families, I wish you all a blessed Christmas! Thank you very much.
u2021-11-08-285	Thank you. Our next speaker, Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, will give his speech at the end of the twenty-fourth hour, or the title of South Somogy, left on the side of the road. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-08-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I could've given you the address that you didn't leave South Somogy on the side of the road, but South Somogy kicked you in the ditch. On behalf of our fellow government representatives, we have heard such beautiful images of how certain districts are developing within Hungary, and how I sincerely say that I was envious of this view from South Somogy. Let me bring you some of the things from the shadowy side of our country that perhaps not all those in the pro-government benches are aware of. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, what Congressman Bence Tuzson has said is that people in his district love to work and like to work, and that is why there is such a recovery, it must be true at some level, and indeed true. On some level, however, it is offensive to look at people living in peripherals, to look at people who have been left on the side of the road, who have been erased from the map, and so does South Somogy. I dare say that people who live there also love the work and like or want to work, but there is a settlement in my constituency, Vízvár, where every day they commute to Zalaegerszeg, 110 kilometres away, so that they can live and support their families. That's the reality of South Somogy. From the pro-government side, we've been accused a lot of times of being better off by being such traitors. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010, as a member of the Somogy County Assembly, I was very pleased with the programme speech that Attila Gelencsér, the notary who had passed from the pulpit, gave. I was really happy for him, and with all my heart I longed for those words to be true, so to act, and not to be traitors. What did the notary say at that time as the chairman of the county assembly? It is true that small farms should be supported, because these family farms can support three to four times as many people in a more normal way than the big ones. Well, let's look at the strange allocation of resources that the Fidesz-KDNP government is making. Because they're big-time, big boobs about what they're gonna get. Let us say that my pro-government fellow Member from South Somogy on his Facebook page also regularly says that the 77 settlements have benefited from the Hungarian village programme. Forty-five million forints were awarded to the village playgrounds, seventy or a few million forints for the village cemeteries. But there's something they're not talking about, and even though I asked the Minister of Agriculture for the data, he wanted me to do a good job, and he wanted me to do a good search. Let us then look at these figures, how you have supported the largest landowner's family from abroad to Hungary from 2010 onwards. I added it up, I wasn't lazy: I reached 14 billion forints. Fourteen billion forints. It doesn't include the year 21, they were pushed by HUF 560 million until September 30. Then some figures for, say, this disproportionate distribution, which will result in Latin America in South Somogy, what demographic processes are involved. The facts, the numbers are stubborn things, my honourable pro-government fellow Members. Listen to me. 5619, this was the number of births between 2010 and 19 in the three districts that formed the core of the constituency, the districts of Csurgo, Nagyatádi and Barcsi. On the other hand, 10,224 of our countrymen died. The death loss is 4605. These trends, the situation, have not changed in 20 or this year. So we've lost more than 5,000 people just to do so. The emigration loss between 2010 and 19 was 3922 persons. Hundreds have also left the constituency since then. If we add everything up, we're talking about a $10,000 loss here. That leaves 60,000 people in these three walks. Now, if it weren't for this kind of relationship that I was trying to present through your strange allocation of resources, and it would really be a meaningful, well-paying job there in South Somogy, then perhaps not this exodus, not this destruction, and not that we would be at the end of 24 hours. We have to save South Somogy! Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-08-287	Thank you. At the same time, Mr. Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-scheduled speech: 'Stop hatred'! Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Here you go, notary. You have the floor. [[20.40]]
u2021-11-08-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My little boy and I took a bus the other day, and we sat behind the driver's seat. Then we saw the sticker on the back of the booth, with two words on it, "Stop everyone!" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And I was thinking of the Prime Minister's earlier sentences, which, if I may, I am quoting now. It's never the government's job to govern. Your job is to constantly attack the opposition. You have to build an enemy image, you have to make a threat, you have to draw a hoofed devil on the horizon, and then you have to accuse this enemy of the most absurd accusations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It does not matter whether you referred to the practices of other governments, Prime Minister, or if you have outlined your future plans, the point is that you have succeeded in implementing this method. What do we see the Fidesz government doing at the head of this country for 11 years? They want to stop anyone who doesn't ride their cart. Whether he is a critic government official, whether he is an entrepreneur who is not a member of the NER, be he a politician of the opposition, or now he is Péter Márki-Zay, a Christian family man with seven children. So the Fidesz government is basically showing a stop sign to all our countrymen who want to change, and accusing me of the most absurd accusations. Remember what they said about Gábor Vona three or four years ago? Well, for example, they said that he was a homosexual who was also a Allah worshipper, that he would tear down the fence and let the migrants in. Ladies and Gentlemen, It turned out that none of these words were true, but millions of our fellow Hungarians believed it and voted for Fidesz. Fidesz is therefore able to publicly support government press products that lie and incite certain targeted Hungarians who do not like the Fidesz government after hundreds of lying articles and consequently failed press trials. By the continuous incitement of hatred and intention, they dig a deep trench between Hungarian and Hungarian people, as far as Hungary's history hasn't been. And this hatred appeared in people's everyday lives. He appeared at the sports matches among the fans; he appeared among the neighbors; he appeared among old friends; and, yes, he is on social media, and he is on the mouth of the children when they call their classmates migrant because they had heard it on TV earlier. And if this goes on, unfortunately, it will also be there for Sunday lunch with family members who are otherwise accepting and unconditionally loving each other. And it hurts me unspeakably. As a Member of Parliament, my primary goal is to do my public life activities on a professional basis, giving a personal good example. That is why it frightens me that some people do not recognize the toxic and harmful effects of hate speech in our society. Do you not want our children to grow up in a country where hatred is not a course? This is what I would like, and that is why I thought it was important to sign the peaceful public speech launched by Gábor Gundel-Takács, András Kepes, András Hodász. And a petition, too. Well, I respectfully ask the Fidesz government not to drive a bigger wedge between Hungarian and Hungarian people as the elections approach, just because this is a proven campaign method. But no doubt, we are facing the most nasty and disgusting campaign of all time. However, the Hungarian people deserve more love and less hatred for the Hungarian nation. What about you? Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-08-289	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good rest.
