u2021-05-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I warmly welcome my fellow Members and all those who are monitoring our work today. The 19th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Ádám Steinmetz will be in charge of the meeting to help me. The speeches before the agenda will now take place. Mr Tamás Mellar has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, On Saturday, Gergely Christmas announced that she would be running for Prime Minister's primary. It's not a public matter, it's not one of the walls of this house. At the same time, he announced that he would launch a social movement, with 99 percent under the heading The aim of this movement is to try to represent 99 percent of Hungarian society, which has suffered losses over the last decade, as the Orbán government concentrated only on the 1 percent privileged layer, focused on its well-being, and received state orders, EU funds and state subsidies. And this is no longer just a matter of a party or of the opposition, but of public affairs. Is this really the case, as Gergely Christmas said, or is it not? Let us look at what the European Commission's analysis says about this matter, which is based on Eurostat data. In Hungary, the income of the top 1 percent increased in the period 2008-2018 by 35 percent, while the poorest layer, the lowest 5 percent, only increased by 10 percent. Between 2014 and 2017, the wealthiest 20 percent of their financial assets increased by 36 percent, while 80 percent of society's wealth increased by only 8 percent. It is therefore clear that the orthodox principle, which, in spite of unorthodox politics, was represented by the government, the so-called leaking theory, that the income of the rich will leak to the poorer layers, and therefore, in the first place, it is necessary to create the domestic bourgeoisie, the circle of Hungarian rich people, and then this prosperity will leak. Well, it didn't get leaked, something else leaked, but don't mention it now. Moreover, it can be concluded that in developed countries it is possible for the tax system and the system of State aid to dampen income differences in market conditions. The indicator of this inequality of income is also the so-called Gini coefficient, and the European Commission also concluded that, for example, in Bulgaria and Poland, this Gini coefficient decreased by 4 percent and 3 percent, respectively, as a result of the state's diminution of income differences. The same indicator has not decreased in this ten-year period, but has increased by 4 percent. This means that a perverted income redistribution system has been implemented in Hungary, it can be said that it is a reverse Robin Hood tax, so Viktor Orbán is a reverse Robin Hood, because what he takes from the poor he gives to the rich. I'm not saying this. You can read the European Commission's numbers. Then we can also learn from the Commission's analysis that the situation in Hungary is also very bad in terms of accountability and reduction of corruption. With regard to the three Visegráds, they are 88-89 per cent compared to the EU average, and Hungary has fallen to 75 per cent by 2018 with 95 per cent in 2008. In other words, there has been no improvement in this area, but a deterioration. So, overall, what can be established is that there is something to be done, so this social movement really has a foundation and a purpose, because Hungary needs a government that not only refers to the majority of society, but is political in order to do so, it considers their prosperity to be the main goal, so it is not the 1 per cent, but the 99 per cent. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-18-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You were talking about the situation of the poorest social group. I would like to stress to you that the government's aim is to eradicate poverty in Hungary, which has been declared for many years now. We think that work is the way out of poverty. In Hungary, more and more people live out of work instead of aid, so more and more people also have a chance to break out of poverty. We believe that this is an important change, and it is also important that this is the case despite the coronal virus epidemic with us. Between 2006 and 2010 the real income of the poorest 40 percent of households fell. On the other hand, real income from the poorest households increased to the greatest extent between 2011 and 2018. These are Eurostat data, so they are also suitable for international comparison. The real value of net average earnings, i.e. not only the poorest, but the average real value in Hungary has increased by more than one and a half times since 2010. Since 2010, we have doubled the minimum wage from HUF 73 500 to HUF 167 400, while the minimum wage for skilled workers has increased by more than 2.5 times. If it is important for you to support the smallest earners, then I think you are in favour of our objectives. Between 2010 and 2019, the number of people with significant difficulties in an unexpected expenditure has decreased by 4 million; there is also statistics on this. The number of people who cannot afford a one-week holiday a year has decreased by 2.5 million. The number of people at risk of poverty has again decreased by 1 million 280 thousand since 2010. The number of people in severe material deprivation has fallen from 23.4 percent in a decade to 8.7 percent, which has led us up from the sixth worst place to the ninth best place in the EU. Since 2010, unemployment has halved among Gypsies. As a result of the reduction in overhead costs, the prices of district heating, gas and electricity decreased by 25 per cent on average; the number of households unable to pay their bills by deadline fell by half. This is also a very serious form of poverty, and we must continue to fight it. We've been helping the Feds. It was the unsustainable and cruel system of foreign exchange lending that drove hundreds of thousands of families into poverty in Hungary. We've stopped this, we've run the foreign exchange credit system, we've managed to help hundreds of thousands of families. In 2021, there is more resources than ever, HUF 86 billion available for social meals. That's a 2.5-fold increase. In Hungary the textbook supply is fully free from 20-21 years. Under the Erzsébet programme, more than 500 000 children were able to relax, camp free of charge, and from February 2021 we gradually rebuild the 13th month pension. [[9.10]] Compared to this, before 2010 when it was also a crisis period, those left-wing governments with whom you are now running in an alliance in the next year's elections are the candidate of Ferenc Gyurcsány.Gergely Karácsony, these left-wing governments also dealt with a crisis by doubling the price of electricity, three times the price of residential gas; compared to salaries, Hungarian families in Europe had the most expensive price of electricity in the European Union. In violation of their earlier promise, the family tax relief was abolished, with the spread of foreign currency lending, Hungarian families were pushed into poverty, credit poverty, and under eight years of government, the minimum wage was raised by only HUF 23,500, while I mentioned our numbers. If I may, I would like to reiterate once again that it is employment for us, it is work that is a way out of poverty, the number of new jobs has increased by more than 20 percent since the change of government in 2010, by more than 800 thousand new jobs, and we have managed to keep them despite the difficult economic effects of the epidemic. I think that this is the policy that Hungary needs. This is a token of ascension and certainly not a copy of the American sample, completed by Ferenc Gyurcsány between 2002-2010 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] with its activities. The Hungarians don't want any of this. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the LMP Group, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet applied to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-18-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel more and more like I'm here at the National Assembly than I am in a kindergarten group, but I'm just in the small group. The opposition raises an important issue, asks the government for answers to questions that affect the people's present and future, but the answer is usually the most often and only that it is Gyurcsány. It's the only nine-letter word you're gonna be able to say. I was pleased and I wanted to commend Mr Orbán, Secretary of State, for leaving Gyurcsány out of his reply in the previous speech, but that did not work either. Honourable pro-government majority! I think we should stop doing that. People want a meaningful answer. With all due respect, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, who will answer me to answer the question, not in reply, but in substance. The governing party, out of deadline, submitted last week a recovery and resilience plan, which had previously been submitted to the social debate, but which was substantially modified compared to it, on the use of EU funds. At the last minute, the previously published plan, this HUF 5800 billion budget, was reduced by HUF 3300 billion, i.e. the government said that we would not take on this preferential loan, and now this plan is about HUF 2500 billion. I have to say that the LMP does not believe in borrowing, but the reason why you do not use this HUF 3300 billion loan is ridiculous. The justification sounds like they don't want to sell the country. The Budapest-Belgrád railway, the Fudan University of China and Paks II. They take up expensive Russian and Chinese loans for their completely pointless, thousand billion-dollar investments! The real reasons are obviously completely different: money spent on EU credit is much harder to steal. Perhaps the biggest loser of the modified version of the recovery plan is higher education. Obviously, the European Union does not want to finance the change of model. But this recovery plan will not put the Hungarian economy on a sustainable, crisis-resistant and climate-friendly path either. It does not improve people's well-being, nor can it compensate for the losses caused by the epidemic. It does not help Hungarian families, Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the unemployed. Economic measures should be sought with a magnifying glass in the plan. There is still the tightest job search allowance and wage support in the EU. Social measures are limited to the expansion of cradle seats, which is of course important and limited to providing basic public services for 300 of the most deprived settlements. And what would you spend it on? Just the usual: architectural investments, concrete and, of course, filling the buddies' pockets. I must point out that this recovery plan is hardly for climate change purposes, as is the case with the EU's expectations. We find it a problem that in the planned water management programmes the water retention in the area is cancelled, irrigation agricultural developments dominate, and I must say that this alone will not be extremely effective if we cannot improve the water retention capacity of the soil. They are missing, there are hardly any ecological aspects, even though we know that landscape management based on water retention has a thousand-year tradition in our country. Another very important deficiency is that the government is not planning on insulation the residential buildings. The design of household solar systems and electric heating without insulation will lead to waste, and the new equipment will heat the street. Another problem is that they want to continue installing solar farms on large soils or green surfaces, while there are plenty of roofs and brownfield areas. Finally, the aspects of biodiversity conservation are missing and there are no guarantees for achieving the conservation objectives. Overall, it can be concluded that the plan does not include the most necessary measures in terms of both emission reduction and adaptation in terms of climate change. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-18-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If I may, I'd like to begin with a general remark. I would like to explain to you a causal relationship as to why we bring up the name of Ferenc Gyurcsány every single time. [[Demercation and intervention in opposition benches.]] Since you've asked me that, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to shed some light on it for you. For the 2022 elections, the entire left is planning to start in an alliance from Jobbik to Dialogue, at least that is what I am reading in the Hungarian press. [[Noise. Erzsébet Schmuck: There is an election law! The president's ringing the bell.]] In this electoral alliance, the Democratic Coalition and its leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, play a prominent role, leading this alliance. And why is this related to our public policy debates here in this House? It relates because you, who are running in an alliance with Ferenc Gyurcsány, may have started as Politics in 2010, since then you have changed the tone a little bit; but now there can be no policy but politics before 2010. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: It can be green! Green!]] This pre-2010 policy was marked by the government activity of Ferenc Gyurcsány. It is therefore logical and rational to compare the two government cycles, because it shows what we want to do, what we do and why we do, and how this was before 2010, when, moreover, there was also a crisis period in the financial and economic crisis, so that the government's response to it and the government's response to the current crisis are comparable. [[9.20]] So the situation, Congresswoman, I hope this will not happen, but if the left is successful in the Hungarian elections in 22nd, then it is quite clear that not a new policy will be followed, but politics before 2010 will return to Hungary. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How do you know?]] And, unfortunately, it has the wrong working logic, and that's why we keep referring to Ferenc Gyurcsány. If you will allow me, you have a debate not with the Hungarian government on the RRF plan, but with the European Union. You misunderstand the way this plan works. You may think this plan is omnipotent and omnicompetent, but it's not. It's 2,500 billion forints. We call it a recovery and resilience plan because the European Union has created this project in order to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic with basically economic recovery and infrastructure development projects. Nevertheless, we have tried to link this with and comb it together with our otherwise existing government priorities. That's how ten components came together. I do not know which component the congresswoman disagrees with. Demography? Should we spend it on demography, public education? 2. Highly skilled competitive labour force. You don't think we should spend on that? Catch-up settlements, health care and country-specific recommendations. Which one's the problem? And if there's no problem with that, I'd recommend four more components to your attention. We have said that, despite the fact that the main aim is the economic fight against the coronal virus epidemic, it also supports our climate objectives: water management, sustainable green transport, energy and, in this context, greening and creating conditions for the circular economy. A total of 41 percent of the original framework will be used for these four components. We believe that this is significant, and we believe that this is important, and if you really consider yourself to be a representative of a green party, then this plan, which is one of the highest, this ratio and this plan, and this ratio, which is one of the highest of the plans submitted so far, because not all countries have yet submitted their plans, should support it. Apart from this, we are planning to invest heavily, because we believe that, in economic terms, protection against the epidemic depends on as many investments as possible, job creation, as many infrastructure developments as possible, green-infrastructural development, and that, of course, the rest of the project elements are planned to be financed by Hungarian budgetary resources or other sources of funding from the EU or other sources. So what I would like to ask, Congresswoman, is that you look at the state of the Hungarian budget, the RRF, the MFF and, by the way, the financing capacity of the Hungarian state, and you will see it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that there are resources to achieve our plans, and that should be welcomed rather than supported, I don't know who Ferenc Gyurcsány might be. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-18-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member László Varju of the DK Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-9	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. At the pleasure of State Secretary Orbán, in the context of cause and effect, I would like to point out what you are doing, you, whose international isolation has occurred. There are nearly 30,000 fatalities in the corona virus, we're talking tens of thousands of broken businesses, there's a lot of unemployment, inflation is fast-tracking, there's half as much to buy as in 2010. Which is why I suggest you don't destroy the country by robbing people and taking the roof from their heads. Their national capitalists already have a palace, a yacht, a castle, a forest, a land, but the people living in the apartment do not have it, and they expect the solidarity of Hungarian society instead of what you do. After all, under the leadership of their right-wing party alliance, Viktor Orbán, and with the support of the Fidesz faction, Fidesz László Böröcz, a member of the Fidesz faction, submitted a bill to the Parliament that obliges the municipalities to sell rent apartments for a fraction of the market price. Seeing that the Fidesz mayors are now protesting the proposal, the opinion is legitimate, you can't even agree with your own people if you want to get your friends to live for pennies, and thus damage the people of that city. This is an initiative that the mayor of the Fidesz district has called stupidity and demanded withdrawal. You all know that this idea makes impossible the basis and the possibility of responsible management of cities and districts with public wealth, evacuating one of the most important reforms of the regime change, the local government, so you will continue to build the party state. It's a fidescist act of violence terrified of a real election defeat, which unmaskedly shows the essence of NER: they make private property out of public property. It is a false justification of the law, which refers to the public interest. It can never be in the public interest for the few to benefit from the common national wealth at the expense of many. But even more is the problem that the needy or future thinkers will not have the chance to solve their housing in a municipal housing system. Instead, many families, young people who start their own lives, remain expensive apartments. Or is that what you want? Is that why they're filling construction contractors? One thing is certain, you are aggravating the existing housing crisis you have created in the hope of a few tens of thousands of votes. But let's just add, they also tricked people who bought tens of millions of forints in their apartments, indebted themselves, while selling them to others at a quarter price. However, we can say that the proposal does not even conform to your Fundamental Law, as you know that Article 32 (1) of the Fundamental Law does not. §a states that as regards municipal property, the municipality exercises the rights of the owner. This proposal, in principle, limits the right to dispose by establishing the right to buy the tenant. Dear Fidesz MPs, The flood after us? After them, the deluge? It is no coincidence that the DK mayors asked the Fidesz mayors in an open letter, not to let the residents of the settlements entrusted to them be robbed of their common property. You know perfectly well that the proposal does not benefit those who are referred to in the explanatory statement. You also know that if this draft becomes a law, no one will be able to provide an apartment for them, for the most deprived. This proposal takes away the air, the opportunity to create a home from low incomes, takes away the air from young people who want to do business, who want to start a company instead of investing in housing capital. Dear House, To sum up, Fidesz's party state has not built a single apartment yet, but now they are also making sure that the municipalities do not either. I am sure you know that this bill is deeply unfair and cynical. And yesterday it was only Monday, when there were Neppers in the cabbage county estate, that they would be happy to buy and lend credit to buy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's a life-long apartment. Dear members of the government, that's what you want to take care of for your pals. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-18-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Let me not comment on your comments on the party state: I was not the post-communist leader of the two of us, or perhaps the Communist leader was more accurate, and I did not participate in the questionable privatisation processes of the two of us, so I think your comments of this type should be respected, so you should be a little more careful, because, after such a prelude, these are steep claims. The specific case you raised, what is it about? The point is that those who rent their apartment from the municipalities would have the opportunity to buy it. So the point is, this apartment could cost its own property. This could affect tens of thousands of people, affect tens of thousands of families throughout the country, not in one district, not just in the capital, but across the country. [[9.30]] What is important in this matter is that everyone is free to decide. If you want to take advantage of this opportunity, you can buy it. By the way, there is also a possibility of payment, there is no need for the things you referred to; I do not know how you stand the test of reality. But if someone doesn't want to take advantage of that opportunity, they don't take advantage of it. The emphasis is that the apartment can be owned by itself. And we think, and here there is a huge difference of attitude between the left and the right, that the existence of own property is a fundamental condition of civic existence. This difference in attitude has clearly come out in recent years. This government has decided on the family home-building discount, the tax reduction, the housing renovation support, to say a very current measure. You've been attacking them all along. They've been attacking him all along! That is why we come to the conclusion that if it were up to you, practically everyone could live in a rented apartment in Hungary. We don't want that. We want our own property to strengthen not only the country, but also the families, because it guarantees them predictability and security and planning for the future. You guys have a negative record in this, by the way. When they were on the government, they abolished a well-functioning family support program. Ferenc Gyurcsány promised that he would not touch it, and then he was removed by a pen stroke. They'd be doing the same thing right now. They would do the same thing now: if we looked at their program fragments, because we have already seen them, they would send a very clear message that the family support system and the support for home creation would be abolished in this form. I'd ask you not to. This also means that we have a number of reasons to say no to your aspirations and say no to the past sneaking back. At the beginning of his speech, he had other comments on the poorer. I would add, however, that under your government, the minimum wage has barely increased by twenty-a-half thousand forints. This government has doubled it. When it came to crisis management, you increased the VAT. Not to mention the fact that foreign exchange loans have been released into the country. They didn't do anything so upped the rate of foreign exchange loans. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] It took me a long, long time... Mr President, I understand that you are tense, because if I had to join this band, which took such austerity measures when it was possible, I would be tense too if I had to join them. I'm talking facts, Congressman. They've increased electricity prices, allowed them to rise, including gas prices. It hit the poorest people the most. I was talking about family support, they were cut, and they didn't put anything in his place. I'm not even talking about the fact that there was no Erzsébet camp at the time, and now there's Camp Elizabeth. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That is not true!]] The textbooks weren't free then, and now the textbooks are free. And before you suggest that I refer to the past, we bring this here because if we look at their programming points, what we know about them, they'll do the same thing. Same ones. I would increase personal income tax, for example, by talking about 25-30 percent taxes, while young people have to pay zero-percent taxes, so they don't have to pay from next January. I'd raise the corporate tax from 9 to 19 percent. Then where are the undertakings to which you refer? Where's their interest in raising corporate tax by 10 percent? They've come up with the real estate tax proposal. So, while this government would like to confirm its own property, you would tax the property, tax it. They made it clear, it's in their proposals. They'd still tax me after the inheritance. That's what's in it. And I wouldn't normally be tied to work. So we could continue the line, but we have a thousand reasons to say that we don't want to go back to the past, and we won't. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-18-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-18-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I would like to talk about a very serious problem, which is very little mentioned here within the walls of Parliament. The pandemic, the coronal virus epidemic, has been in the world for more than a year, and we talk very little about the very serious impact of this: how it affects the millions of Hungarian children that they have been locked in homes for up to a year. The children's social and mental status is a very bad picture, with more complaints to the school psychologist, said the vice president of the Pedagogist Union in an interview. Insularity, lack of social relations, were conditions that increased the risk of mental illness in children. Allow me to read the results of the survey carried out by the SOS Children's Villages yesterday. The aim of the survey was to find out how young people endured months of isolation, and the respondents were parents whose children went to high school, and I will specifically address it. Based on the parents' responses, the following were the most common psychiatric symptoms among young people: unusual fatigue 67 percent, persistent sadness and emptiness 65 percent, and sleep disorders 53 percent. In addition, nearly one in two parents said that their child seemed hopeless and pessimistic in the last year, and the same number of parents indicated that their child had lost interest in previously interesting, enjoyable activities. During the pandemic, 41 percent of young people developed some sort of eating disorder. Forty-one percent! I know from experience what a serious situation it can lead to when children experience eating problems. What is one of the most terrible data and I don't know if you've read the survey, a bitter figure has been drawn from the survey: one in eight youths was concerned with the idea of death, suicide, and self-destruction. You are here expressing a great deal inside and outside the walls of this Parliament that you are conducting Christian-citizen family- and child-friendly governance. One of the groups who were the hardest in the pandemic is those who graduated last year and this year. I can say that yesterday, Minister of State, Bence Rétvári, said that they did everything they could to ensure that they could safely complete the graduation last year and this year, but we did not demand it from the opposition. [[Dr. Pál Völner: To avoid graduation!]] so that at least this year, once the vaccine is available, teachers and graduate students can receive the vaccine in particular before graduation, the students did not receive it. They were tense and hopeless in many cases about how they were going to graduate school. You know, when you say you're family and child-friendly, I'm asking you very much not to do this again. They went to school with a crowd of children knowing that they were infected in the family, and denied to fail this year's admissions, or there was a case where the child went to high school with an appendix the day before, and the next day, drugged, sat through graduation because he didn't want to fail this year's admissions. I will read this morning that Viktor Orbán graciously announced that students who have missed their graduation due to the risk of infection, infection or quarantine or some kind of illness may be eligible for a replacement. Two weeks after graduation, Viktor Orbán had the nerve to announce this! Why couldn't you give the children this opportunity not to have to go to graduation without having to sit through a written high school graduation, even freshly operated? Dear gentlemen, What kind of child-friendly people are you? ! And we haven't talked about the fact that we've had a crowd of students that, yes, they've announced that 16-18-year-olds can now receive vaccination after graduation, but what about the 18-year-old kids who go to five-year-old high school because they applied for language prep or two language schools? Aren't they in high school? Aren't they high school students? They've already turned 18. Why can't you say it's provided to kids in high school? Dear fellow Members, It is not two weeks after graduation that we should think about, but it should have been done and adopted the proposals that we tabled on behalf of the opposition in the interests of children. [[Dr. Pál Völner: To avoid graduation!]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[9.40]]
u2021-05-18-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It's always in the best interests of children and children. We also tried to take measures in the epidemic where children were as safe as possible in the epidemic, and children's parents were as safe as possible. You have not supported these measures here in Parliament, honourable Member, and have tried to create uncertainty about vaccination everywhere outside Parliament, and have tried to prevent the government from protecting children's health and their parents' health wherever possible. I add, honourable Member, when you were in the government, you couldn't even conduct your graduation without scandals in peacetime. We can also remember the graduation scandal of your government. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Leaked...]] Even though you're trying to forget this, it seems like you're trying to forget it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you have listened to the sentences of the WHO leader, who has also been to Hungary, he said that schools should be closed among the lasts during an epidemic and should be opened among the firsts, precisely because children, especially children with a difficult fate, have as little disadvantage as possible in the digital working order of schools or the closure of schools and kindergartens. Therefore, it is important to keep these open as long as possible, obviously under security measures, and then to open early. We tried to introduce everything we could to protect the safety of children. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] , body temperature measurement. Already in August, we sent out proposals to schools that transformed their own operation, their own policy. The end of the summer was to prepare for a safer way to start education. We can recall that one of your satellite organizations, a satellite union, also said that body temperature measurement is necessary in schools, and then when the government introduced it, they turned me to even more volume and said that it was a pretense measure to introduce body temperature measurement. How is it possible that one week you demand something on the left and the next week you say that this is a pretend measure, honourable Member? If anyone had listened to you in the last two years, you would have taken away the possibility of graduation and further education from students last year and this year. They would have pushed two years of young people into such uncertainty as they had never seen before, because you have always tried to stand up here in Parliament to keep your graduations, and last year you held your graduations, too. No epidemiological focal point has been formed in any of the places, none of which has become an infection focal point, because we have managed to organize graduations and thank all teachers and all educational workers with adequate distance, body temperature measurement, masks, hand sanitizers, all provided by the government through government offices to schools that they have not become infection focal points, honourable Member. If we had listened to you, this would have been a huge problem for 80,000 students. But you also know last year's figures, the average of last spring's graduation results is 3.61 which corresponds to the average of the previous five years, and last year's repetitions decreased by 40 percent. Thank you, everyone, who has done so, in addition to increased security measures, and we thank the students for their ability to prepare under more difficult circumstances; as we can say in almost every country in the world, unfortunately, these years, this year's school year and the second part of last year's school year, were harder in all schools in the world than in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government was able to decide to inoculate Hungarian teachers prior to the re-opening of schools because there was enough vaccine in Hungary to allow teachers to take part in... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély talks with Dr. Tamás Mellar.]] By the way, would you mind listening, Congresswoman? [[Interjection from the benches of the governing parties: He cannot hear!]] I've been talking for four minutes and I'm gonna answer you, would you look at me? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Why do you ask if you won't listen to the answer? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You are not talking about what you should be talking about, Mr. Secretary of State. You're not talking about what I asked you... loud noises, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Why do you ask if you won't listen to the answer? (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You are not talking about what you should be talking about, Mr Secretary of State. You're not talking about what I asked you... A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions. The president's ringing. I've been talking to you for four minutes, and you've been talking to your fellow benches... (The President rang.)
u2021-05-18-16	Mr. Secretary, this is not a question of dialogue. Congresswoman told me it's your turn now. Feel free to continue.
u2021-05-18-17	Thank you, I'll continue with the rest of the time. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We had the opportunity to inoculate Hungarian teachers because there were so many vaccines in Hungary, thanks to the Eastern acquisitions that we were able to inoculate teachers in the first place. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You are not talking about...]] The elderly as well as the educators in parallel. If you had been on the government, you would have spread your hands to teachers as well as to the elderly, that unfortunately you have not received enough vaccines from Brussels, you cannot reopen schools, you cannot guarantee the safety of the elderly, because there are not enough vaccines in Hungary. And precisely because of the fact that students returning to school [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It should be easier to process this difficult period, so it is important that we have doubled the number of school psychologists in the last ten years. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-18-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! From the Jobbik Group, Mr László György Lukács applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We are a year after Hungary has successfully overcome the first coronal virus epidemic wave, with a common force, and it is time to draw a little balance, as it seems that we are at the end of the third wave. First of all, we should thank those who have contributed to the successful defence and persistent defence over the last year, so that health workers, law enforcement workers, defence workers, but all those who have helped in the civil sphere to suffer as little damage as possible to our countrymen as possible, as few as possible to die in this terrible epidemic. Several people analysed the situation and came to similar conclusions, such as the Committee of Inquiry on the different waves and individual measures on the part of the government and on the part of society to control the epidemic. We can say, and I said this at the beginning, that the first wave of the epidemic was a relatively successful defense, because Hungary was closed quickly and at a good pace, and people defended themselves disciplinedly. If we go on to the second wave, which began sometime at the end of summer and the beginning of autumn, we must see that people, although they seem to be prepared, are prepared for it, but the government is not prepared for it. It has become common that health institutions, social institutions, have not been prepared, virtually renounced the strengthening of the public health body, which could have done contact research, as if we had forgotten or even started testing. As a result, Viktor Orbán allowed the virus to dictate the pace that Hungary couldn't take, and with the same technique, with the same conclusion or the same conclusion, we hit the third wave, which was more tragic than ever before. In this spring, the situation has basically escalated and deteriorated to the point that Hungary, and although this data is systematically denied, is being withheld, even though Viktor Orbán said in September that the number of deaths should be monitored, so Hungary was in the first place in the world this spring in the number of deaths per million people. Hungary has made huge sacrifices in human lives because Viktor Orbán has allowed the virus to dictate the pace. You have not properly prepared the institutions this spring. In fact, it's much worse than that: you've bludgeoned and even dissuaded people with your own communication about how dangerous the virus is. Let us remember the words of Gergely Gulyás, who said in front of journalists and the public that this virus is not dangerous, that everyone who is in that room could be infected, and that they will have an unpleasant flu at most. But remember, for example, Müller Cecilia, who said that those who are healthy do not have to wear masks and basically spoke against masking. But Müller Cecília said something steeper than that: he said that he had asked me at the top of the deaths to be infected by as many people as possible. There are also clear footage of this, and this was mentioned in a notice about a coronal virus. In fact, your favorite doctor, who also talks about vaccinations, János Szlávik said at the beginning of the coronal virus epidemic: the coronal virus alone is incompetent to cause a global epidemic. Well, fellow Members, you do not want or will never talk about death, and in Hungary, I say, we are world record players. We are now at the point that Viktor Orbán wants to divert attention from the number of people who died in our country and that most people died here in proportion to their population. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] They also want to divert attention from the fact that from the surrounding countries, the Austrian lab is not followed, we have not tested, we have not contacted. They want to distract attention from it, and this is perhaps the most important thing, because of the omissions of you and the Prime Minister, which, by the way, has given Hungary all the authority to take action, this is what Hungary has been able to achieve from the disease control. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the ruling parties.]] Dear fellow Members, That's what's behind us and what's in front of us, we can see it. Instead of allowing patients to go to the hospital, you have created a new paid health care system in modern times. You're asking for a PCR test from those who don't have a vaccination certificate, making access to the hospital and institutions pay. In fact, you are already planning, based on the latest letters, which department and which hospital should be shut down, and despite the Ministry's denial that this is not the case, we know exactly that you have made such commitments to the European Union. [[9.50]] Of course, the EPP Jobbik won't let that happen. Jobbik's position has always been to speed up patients' return to hospitals so that they can finally receive services, interventions and other diagnostic procedures that have been missing for a year and a half, and people can heal, and we ask or demand that people not have to go to paying health care so that they pay 19 thousand forints. Jobbik wants prosperity for all Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2021-05-18-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to the speaker's speech before the agenda will be given by Secretary-General Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is possible that you are concerned about health care, but I think you are concerned about Irish health care, because you have done more than you have done for Hungarian health care, because your family business has dealt with taking Hungarian medical workers and Hungarian doctors abroad, and you boasted that, in my memory, maybe 62 will correct me if I say the wrong number, what was in your statement! a doctor from Hungary to Ireland [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] in a relatively short time, honourable Member. [[The president's ringing the bell. András Tállai: Is it true or not?]] So you may have helped health care in other countries, but you've only destroyed it here. Honourable Congressman, Who is the Hungarian politician, who is the Hungarian MP who openly boasted that he had not yet registered for vaccination? Who is the only Hungarian politician I know, who boasted on a national television programme online that he had not even registered for vaccination? [[György Szilágyi: Viktor Orbán about his wife?]] You, honourable Member. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] You, who say that it is very important to protect against the epidemic, who is a health politician on the left, you proudly said on a national television show that you did not register for vaccination, honourable Member. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] And what did he say about the vaccines? After obviously, if a politician says I didn't register for vaccination, he encouraged people not to register for vaccination. [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's a lie!]] This is the message of this, honourable Member. In the middle of the epidemic, you say proudly and encourage people not to register for vaccination, and your job as a politician, especially as a health politician, is to convince people to defend themselves against the epidemic, to get vaccinated. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] And let alone attacking the vaccines, I'll bring you countless quotes. [[Zoltán Balczó: But you can't register for patients!]] He even tried to dissuade people from registering because of his own example. What did you say about the vaccines? That AliExpress and Wish are ordering the government vaccine [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's another lie! Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] After leaving Szijjártó on AliExpress by browsing for the Chinese vaccine, he quickly believed in Putin's vaccination. A responsible person who wants to protect the health of Hungarian people talks about a vaccine, honourable Member, which has been approved by the WHO, and for which the WHO has also said that it is capable of protecting people's lives and health? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame! György Szilágyi: What about the European Medicines Agency?!]] And on the other hand, you've spoken against it every possible time, and I'd be happy to quote another quote: that's probably how the Menczer guys like you talked about Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Menczer, that's what you were talking about. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Of course you can valet!]] Even now, somewhere in China or the Russians, they'd be scouting and tweaking. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] You called the purchase of vaccinations ringing the bells. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He's been using this other figure of speech for one shot or another: they've ordered stuff from AliExpress or Wish they've never arrived. So, for the vaccine with which your left-wing colleagues were vaccinated, you say that you will never receive a vaccine. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] He says it's an inefficient vaccine, while WHO says it's effective. [[Dr. László György Lukács: When were these announcements, Mr. Secretary of State?]] You say on a live TV show that you have not registered yourself for the vaccination, and you say that you will never arrive, while fortunately now our fellow countrymen are being protected by this vaccine in the millions. What you said, I could quote Ledia Lazeri, the head of the WHO office in Hungary, Hans Kluge, the WHO regional leader in Europe, all of what you said about testing. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] What you said about the vaccines, they're all disproved, honourable Member. If you believe only in EU procurement as a politician of Jobbik, once a flag for the EU [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] If we'd listened to you, we wouldn't be able to give people vaccines, we would only be able to say the contracts. [[György Szilágyi: Say something else.]] You've been spreading false news that you have to pay for your immunity card. You don't have to. You said you didn't automatically pay half a million forints to doctors and nurses. You're walking, Your Honour. And you're talking about a letter that we send every year to hospitals, in which we assess the needs through hospital managers, you say it's an extraordinary measure. Mr. Congressman, you haven't had a real word in the last few minutes when you spoke. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] And all he did was try to dissuade people. What else did you say about vaccinations in the middle of the epidemic? Hungary is not the Russian lab, Russian roulette [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] Hungarians should not be exposed to dangerous vaccination. You said that the vaccine, which was approved by the WHO, was a gamble with the lives of Hungarians; [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Who wants to be the first to inject the vaccine produced by the Russians? [[Dr. László György Lukács: There was so much information available!]] This is what you have been talking about, honourable Member. If people had listened to you, they would have put themselves in much greater danger, and the epidemic would have lasted a lot longer. Of course, that may actually be your goal, but we thank all those who have in recent years and over the past year and a year and a half [[The president's ringing the bell. György Szilágyi: Time! Time! Time!]] they have done such work that the graft rate in Hungary precedes even the rate in the USA. Thank you for your work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-18-22	Ladies and gentlemen, You don't have to yell out that it's time. You have to be careful whether I rang the bell or not, and when someone listens, they open their ears, they hear. István Simicskó, Head of the Group of the KDNP, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman, Mr. Group Leader, you have the floor.
u2021-05-18-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There have been many questions, opinions and opinions about the pandemic in recent years. One thing is certain: the greatest stake in this epidemic is the protection of human lives. This has been in the eyes of the Hungarian government all the time from the beginning of the epidemic until today, and let me record some facts and tell you in view of the experience of the past period! One thing is certain: the government has detected the outbreak in time and has taken action on time, since it has ordered vaccines, respirators, all available vaccines are being acquired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the moment, there are six types of vaccines that people can choose from. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian left was constantly critical of the government's defence and defence activities, and through this he was constantly holding back the defence in Brussels, we see there has been hesitation, but despite all criticism and hesitation, nearly five million of our countrymen have already been vaccinated. This is a huge success, a huge achievement, thanks to the government's work, thanks to well-organized health care, we are indeed at the forefront of the world in terms of vaccinated people. I think it is also a fact that there was no other option, because only the vaccine can be the solution, and the government clearly and clearly recognised that this is the way to go. Let me thank the people involved in the defence, especially those working in health care, for the sacrifice they do every day to save the lives of Hungarian people and also to carry out vaccinations. It has already been said here that the United States will also be prevented from vaccinationing in proportion to the population. Ladies and gentlemen, A few days ago, the World Health Organization, WHO, accepted the Chinese vaccine, confirmed the right decision that the Hungarian government had taken in time to obtain Eastern vaccines. We would have been able to inoculate a lot less people if the government hadn't gotten away with this. Obviously, he makes decisions about his own health in his individual life, and I myself, in confidence in the Eastern vaccines, have vaccinated myself with this vaccine, so I think it is important that we do have an example of increasing people's willingness to be vaccinated in this way. So we see that the Hungarian left is currently and continues to be anti-vaccination, this campaign continues, and is now arguing with the WHO, the World Health Organisation. I believe that in this debate, the left will clearly fall behind, and we can confidently rely on the wisdom and recommendation of the WHO. And this debate, I would like to stress at the outset: the stake of the epidemic is the protection of people's lives, the criticism of the left, and the unnecessary debate with the WHO, which now also exists, is a game of human lives on their part. This is irresponsible policy, and we regret to see and experience it. [[10.00]] In addition, Hungarian experts, Hungarian virologists and Hungarian doctors do not trust their opinions, as they also stood up for the vaccines that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs purchased. So, overall, what I can say is that the left has played a clear role in front of its own electorate with its criticism of the defense over the last year, with its disincentive work. They did not help to control the epidemic, they could not rise above their political power games, and they thereby hindered the willingness to inoculate and advance the vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, Among human inventions, we can see many things, including division of labour. Adam Smith, pioneer of modern economics, said that this is a huge invention, an important tool for the efficiency of production. He also added that people's abilities are different, that everyone does the part of the job they do best. It is a pity, honourable left, that you only know how to criticize, only to hinder, sabotage, while the government is doing its job, to protect Hungarian people, and will continue to do so in the coming period. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-18-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to the speech by the Head of the Group before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, For more than a year now, the world has faced an unprecedented challenge that has put the world's countries, economies, families and people under severe stress both from an economic and health point of view. The world's epidemic must be protected from both health and economic point of view. It is the government's responsibility and responsibility to protect the lives, health and jobs of Hungarian people. This was an unprecedented challenge, there were no benchmarks, there were no patterns, there were no examples of how to defend against it, so you had to choose a sure compass that would always be infallible and clear direction, and this is the national interest. In the last year and a half, the decisions of the Hungarian government were motivated by national interests, both from a health and economic point of view, and the interests of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy were the two aspects on which the defence decisions were taken. If we had not done so if we had listened to Brussels, the opposition, external or internal pressure, then many thousands more people would have died in Hungary, many tens of thousands more would have been infected and hundreds of thousands more would have lost their jobs. The key was that we were neither willing nor willing to consider vaccines as geopolitical or ideological issues. We have always considered vaccines as a means of saving human life. Therefore, from the outset, we have made it possible to use all vaccines in Hungary, which have been declared safe and effective, safe and effective by Hungarian experts or experts in the European Union. Professionals are the professionals of all vaccines used in Hungary! They said they'd use it and they'd be safe. It's a professional issue, not a political issue. I do not think that Members of Parliament from any side of the horseshoe would be considered a greater virologic authority than either the OGYÉI or the European Medicines Agency or WHO experts. I'd like to inform you that, in the course of your defense, 6.5 million doses of vaccine have so far come from the East. The last half-million-dollar shipment is due this week, after which we can say that both the Russian and the Chinese parties have fulfilled their contracts. We can say that they fulfilled their commitments in time, and in many cases 20, 30, or 40 days of advance. We know that every day here is worth gold, because every day that we were able to start the vaccine earlier meant saving people's lives. Without the vaccines from the East, there would be no tangible proximity to reaching the 5 million vaccinees today, and if we hadn't taken vaccines from the East, and once again if we had listened to external or internal pressure, today 2 million people would be less vaccinated in Hungary, today 2 million people could say that they were protected from the epidemic. Therefore, I think the question is that all those who have been tuning against the purchase of the Eastern vaccines, who have urged Hungarians not to take on the Eastern vaccine, who have put forward a motion for a decision here, who have launched a petition, when they stand before the eyes of 2 million Hungarians and look them in the eye and say that they are kind Hungarians, we urged you not to take this vaccine, and if it were up to us, you would not be vaccinated today. I wonder when this moment will come. Of course, there are opposition representatives who should say so themselves, because after everyone here was instigated against the Eastern vaccinations, they only admitted the Eastern vaccines. Dear Chief of Staff, What I can tell you is that the WHO decision is clear, the Chinese vaccine, Sinopharm used in Hungary received a global license, and last week, the Secretary-General of the United Nations in Moscow asked Russia to help with more Sputniks. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] defense around the world. We Hungarians made the right decision: 2 million more people are safe today compared to buying vaccines from just one source. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-18-26	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member Robert Simon of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the coronal virus is still with us, the vaccinations have reduced it. As can be seen from the data, fortunately, the number of new infected is decreasing from week to week, according to the latest data, 382 people and vaccinees are constantly rising, approaching 5 million, according to the latest data 4 714 992 people. The good news is that because of the high number of immunity holders, more restrictions have already been lifted, while others are exempted from the protection certificate. Because vaccinations are the only way to defeat the virus, and vaccinations are the only way to restart life and the economy, because the epidemic not only attacked human health, but also the Hungarian economy, which is why the government set up an economic protection operational tribe in addition to health protection. The good news is that the number of people employed has been increasing since January. Improvements in employment data are mainly due to economic protection measures, wage support schemes and tax incentives. We expect the gradual re-launching of the economy to bring further recovery in the labour market. Despite the epidemic, not only employment but also average earnings have increased by 9.7 percent in recent months, in January and February. We welcome the fact that the government has extended the duration of the wage support and continues to grant investment aid. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that, on the other hand, the left handled the crisis by taking a month's wages from civil servants and health workers, a month's pension from pensioners, raising taxes, eliminating family subsidies and taking on IMF loans. Then they didn't help people in the trouble, they increased their burden. We have chosen a different path, and we are now working to make Hungary come out of the crisis stronger. The budget proposal 2022 also serves to further strengthen the Hungarian economy, the debate of which will start tomorrow here in the Parliament. Special emphasis will be placed on re-launching the economy, supporting families, restoring the 13th month pension, exempting young people under the age of 25, further reducing the employer's tax burden and providing the resources needed to support investment. The re-launch of the economy has also begun in the constituency of Győr, which I represent. In addition to these, the competitiveness-enhancing support programme will help to alleviate the economic difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic. [[10.10]] The Hungarian government has provided more than 60 Győr-Moson-Sopron county companies with a total of HUF 17 billion in competitiveness-enhancing support, from which companies will make 45 billion HUF worth of development, thus preserving some 15 thousand jobs in spite of the economic difficulties caused by the epidemic. Competitive support is intended to help medium-sized and large enterprises in difficulty by a coronal virus epidemic to overcome their income losses and liquidity problems. I was there myself when Minister Péter Szijjártó handed over supporting documents to companies operating in my constituency under the Competitiveness Support Programme [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , including the leaders of a Hungarian-owned medium-sized company engaged in metal processing, logistics and storage, the provision of IT services, as well as in vehicle and engine manufacturing. The economy plays a prominent role in Győr, so as the city's parliamentary representative, I was pleased to learn that the government is launching another programme of support to increase competitiveness worth HUF 30 billion. Companies in Hungary can gain support for investments that are linked to increasing productivity and with which companies modernise their activities. Companies that are now asking for aid must commit to not dismissing anyone but to increasing the salary of their employees. This is possible with investment where modern technology will be used, added value will be increased or research and development will be preferred. Ladies and gentlemen, It can now be said that the government's response to the hardcore economics of the coronal virus epidemic has proved to be correct, and the Hungarian economy's preventive maneuver in the turn has succeeded. I trust that, in the framework of the investment support programmes, new companies will decide to increase their capacity or buy new technology, and at the same time commit themselves not to dismiss anyone. This way we can protect new jobs in Hungary, because this is in the best interests of all of us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Noise, move. Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-18-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó, I ask you to take your seats and try to listen as quietly as possible to the ministerial response to the speech before the agenda. Minister Péter Szijjártó, please respond to what has been said.
u2021-05-18-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your speech before the agenda. Last spring we had many debates here in the Parliament [[Zoltán Balczó: Watch the Minister!]] When we talked about the fact that the pandemic has not only health but also very serious economic consequences. And when we put together the economic response, the debate here was basically about reaching back to old economic policy instruments that are basically based on aid and once brought Hungary and the Hungarian people into very serious trouble, or we should stick to the economic policy philosophy that made our country one of the fastest-growing economies in the European Union after 2010. This debate can also be simplified by giving people aid or work. Our decision was clear: instead of aid, work must be provided. This is why we have decided to launch a robust investment promotion programme, which has undertaken to provide 50% support for investments by companies that increase their capacity and develop their technology in the event that these investment firms commit not to discharge any of their employees. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, This response by the government has proved successful, and I can also say that Hungary has given the most successful economic response to the economic aspects of the pandemic in Europe, given that last year we have made another investment record. In total, we financed the investment of 1435 companies, which represent an investment value of HUF 1683 billion. The government provided HUF 474 billion in funding for all of this, thus protecting 265 thousand jobs in Hungary. Meanwhile, last year Hungary provided the 11th largest export performance in the world in proportion to GDP. Even in this difficult year, our exports have gone over EUR 100 billion, despite the fact that world trade has decreased by 9.2 percent in total. And while 114 million people worldwide have become unemployed, we can now say that there are more people working in our country than before the epidemic. 4 million 616,000 people have jobs, 41,000 more than in the same period last year. In addition, foreign direct investment in the world decreased by 42 percent, while in Hungary we recorded a 140 percent increase. Honourable Congressman, In view of the success of our investment promotion programmes, the government decided to launch another investment promotion programme, in this case with a budget of HUF 30 billion to support the investment of companies in Hungary that increase their productivity, develop their technology, modernise their operation and keep jobs, because this is the most important. The government provides 20 percent of the value of investments, but in the seven counties where GDP is below average GDP, this subsidy rate will be 33 percent. I respectfully inform Congressman that Győr will have 30 investments in these days and weeks with the government's support for investment promotion. These 30 investments will create a total investment value of HUF 25 billion, protect 7700 jobs, and the government will provide HUF 9 billion in funding for all of this. I respectfully inform you that this year we have reached an agreement with the Korean company SK Innovation, which will create the largest greenfield investment in Hungary in the history of Hungary worth 2.3 billion dollars, which means that we are now on 18 May in this four-and-a-half month period, almost as many investment decisions have been made for Hungary as last year. This shows that Hungary is still an attractive investment destination, its tax strategy for supporting work has worked for the government, that support for investment was right, and that it was also right that we did not listen to the opposition, which would have wanted to give people help instead of work. We know very well that aid leads to vulnerability, uncertainty, and work means a long-term, predictable life. We will remain on this economic strategy line because it has been proven that this is the right thing to do. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-18-30	Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I ask all of you to take your seats. I would ask the Parliament's chamber service to check the position of the voting machines in the steering hooves to see if the conversions have been made. I'd like you to check Minister Mihály Varga's computer. [[A moment's pause.]] Once again, I ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can start our work. [[10.20]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. We must also decide on the adoption of proposals requiring a qualified majority in today's decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. § 3, if, in the final vote of the bill, the Parliament does not accept the provision requiring a qualified majority, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Lajos Kósa is in the middle of the horseshoe.]] Congressman, you push too. [[Lajos Kósa will take his place.]] 184 is the number of Members present, 15 to the absent. I guess that's gonna change, because you two just got here. Parliament has a quorum. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to ask for the work of the Economic Competition Authority, B/15879. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take the decision by 131 votes in favour, 64 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to address the activities of the Public Procurement Authority during the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020, B/16164. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take the decision by 133 votes in favour, 60 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Congresswoman Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik I/15913. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 133 votes in favour, 59 against and 1 abstention. Mr Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, is I/16181. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 132 votes in favour, 59 against and 1 abstention. Mr Lajos Oláh, representative of DK, is I/16215. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 132 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Mr Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, is I/16228. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 132 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Representative, Mr Olivio Kocsis-Cake, representative of the Dialogue is I/16235. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 132 votes in favour, 61 against, with 1 abstention. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, is I/15651. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 133 votes in favour, 61 against and 1 abstention. Dear House, Fellow Members! Next up is T/15987 on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15987/15 of the Legislative Committee's proposal and its summary report T/15987/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 10, 7 and 8. We'll vote on these first. Amendment 10 is proposed by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 134 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 8 is also proposed by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/15987/15 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia A separate vote has been taken on point 45 of the consolidated amendment proposal No 45. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the point requested for a separate vote, and then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 44 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. [[10.30]] The adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15987/15. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the qualified majority point of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 58 votes against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 45, which requires a simple majority, as requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15987/15. Point 45 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requested for a separate vote in the summary amendment by 134 votes to 58, with three abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15987/15. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 18 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/1597/19. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 42 votes against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/1597/19. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 41 votes against and 19 abstentions. A series of amendments to the legislation on covered bonds and other legislative amendments to the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes T/15973 follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. A summary of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/15973/5, and T/15973/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15973/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 172 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/159737. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 172 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/159737. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 170 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 5 abstentions. It follows now that T/15972 on the amendment of individual laws in the field of service and judicial sector regulation is being followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15972/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15972/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, 22 votes against and 35 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15972.7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 53 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15972.7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 136 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 53 abstentions. It is now up to T/15991 on the transparency of civil society organisations engaged in activities capable of influencing public life and on the amendment of certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15991/7 and T/15991/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 and 3, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15991/7. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 30 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15991/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 29 abstentions. [[10.40]] It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15991/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 29 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15991/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 136 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 30 abstentions. T/15985 on the Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15985/7. and its summary report is T/15985/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/15985/7 of the Act of Accession, the national authority shall: A separate vote was initiated on point 7 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the point requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on points 4, 5 and 6 of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15985/7. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 7 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15985/7. Point 7 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point requested for a separate vote by 134 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15985/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15985/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15985/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. T/16000 on the amendment of law and certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16000/4. and the summary report by T/16000/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the House that the house rules are set at 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/16000/4. The Parliament initiated a separate vote on points 20 and 22 of the summary amendment proposal, but also proposed that Parliament decide on the points requested for a separate vote by one vote. First, we decide on the part of the summarised amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on points 17-19, 21, 23 and 27 that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16000/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 53 votes against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 20 and 22 of the summarised amendment, which require a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16000/4. Point 20 and 22 of the consolidated amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the two points of the summary amendment proposal for a separate vote by 137 votes in favour, 53 votes against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16000/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 53 votes against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1660/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 137 votes in favour, 53 votes against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1660/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 137 votes in favour, 53 votes against and 4 abstentions. [[The opposition representatives leave the Chamber outside the independent.]] [[10.50]] The election of a member of the Civil Service Public Foundation's Curatorium follows. Welcome to the candidate, Mr Tamás Attila Tirts and his family [[Attila Tamás Tirts stands up and bows down in the box of ornaments. Applause.]] All the permanent guests of the Parliament, our dear guests, who will attend our meeting. I would like to inform you that Dr. Izabella Bencze, a member of the Civil Service Public Foundation's Curatorium, died on 26 February 2021. The Speaker of the National Assembly is CLXXXV 2010 for the pro-government factions on media services and mass communication. Law 87. S/16285. made a proposal for a new member of the Board. I would like to ask Mr. Adam Steinmetz to explain that. Here you go.
u2021-05-18-31	Decision of the National Assembly 38/2019 on the election of the members of the Civil Service Foundation's Curatorium. It's an amendment to a decision. 1. The National Assembly is CLXXXV of 2010 on media services and mass communication. Law 87. Pursuant to paragraphs (1), (2) and (7), Dr. Izabella Bencze elects Attila Tamás Tirts as a member of the Board of Public Service Public Foundation. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2021-05-18-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! On the basis of the provisions of the Act on Media Services and Mass Communications and the Act on Parliament, the National Assembly elects the member of the Curia of the Public Service Public Foundation by open vote, for the period until the end of the term of office of the members of the existing elected curatorium, with the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/16285. Mr Tamás Attila Tirts will be elected as a member of the Board on the basis of proposal No. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Mr Tirts Tamás Attila to the Board with 133 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath and the oath papers will be signed. I'll ask Mr. Tamás Attila Tirts to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I would ask Mr. István Tiba to read the text of the oath, and I would ask those present to listen to the oath in accordance with our custom. Mr. Messenger! [[The people in this room stand up. Attila Tirts Tamás steps into the middle of the room. Dr. István Tiba reads the words of the oath.]]
u2021-05-18-33	I, Tamás Tirts, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others. I exercise my position as a member of the Public Foundation Board for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2021-05-18-34	Thank you very much. The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask the elected member of the Curia of the Public Service Foundation to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Tirts Tamás László Kövér, Viktor Orbán, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Máté Kocsis and Dr. István Simicskó congratulated him first. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Attila Tamás Tirts and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate the elected official on behalf of Parliament and myself, and wish his work good luck, God's blessing. We'll get back to work. [[The opposition representatives are returning to the room.]] Next up is the P/16238 on the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee in 2021. Final vote on the proposal for a political declaration No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the political statement submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of the adoption of the political declaration. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept P/16238. Political Declaration No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the political statement by 151 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 22 abstentions. Between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Romania, Mátészalka Csenger and Oar Satu Mare Final vote of the bill on the publication of the Agreement on the establishment of a motorway link. [[It's grumpy.]] Fellow Members, take your seats and listen up. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/1595. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 183 votes in favour, 1 votes against and without abstention. Following a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the publication of the Agreement on the International Carriage of Passenger Transport and Freight by Road (T/15968). Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15968. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 182 votes in favour, 1 votes against and no abstentions. It follows that Act I of 2021 amending Act I on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic will be amended. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15997/7. and a summary report by T/15997/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15997/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 128 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. [[11.00]] It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15997/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 128 votes in favour, 57 votes against and no abstentions. It follows that T/1569 on the amendments to the law necessary for the simplification of certain administrative procedures. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15699/6. T/15699/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15699/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, no votes against, with 55 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15699/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 127 votes in favour, no votes against, with 56 abstentions. Next up is T/15708 on the amendment of the laws concerning certain public education. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15708/10 and T/15708/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15708/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 128 votes to 128, with 54 abstentions, with 2 votes against. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15708/12. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 127 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 55 abstentions. It follows from the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act and Act CXXIV of 2019 on the National Cultural Council, on Cultural Strategy Institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural-related laws. T/15988 on the amendment of Act T/1598. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15988. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 145 votes, 1 votes against and 37 abstentions. It follows from the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act LXIV of 2001 on the protection of cultural heritage T/15982 on the amendment of Act T/15982 Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/15982/5 and its summary report T/15982/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1598/25. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15982.7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 149 votes in favour, no votes against, with 34 abstentions. Next up is XC 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/15974. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. The draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets was summarised by T/15974/8, and the report by T/15974/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of § 3, the DK Group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr László Varju and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 121 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Committee on Budgets T/15974/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes in favour, 58 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. Act T/15974/10 and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly It shall send the proposal for a single budget law to the President of the Budgetary Council. The Council shall inform the Speaker of Parliament within three days of the 25th Stability Act. § 3 opinion. The final vote is expected to take place at our later meeting. It follows now that the T/1570 on the publication of an amendment to the Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 concerning the international carriage of goods by TIR means, in Geneva. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/15970/5 and T/15970/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1570/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 182 votes to one, with no abstention. [[11.10]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1570/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 182 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that T/15996 on the establishment and operation of the reporting framework for the identification of financial and other service providers. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15996/5. T/159966. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/159965. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 146 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 32 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15996/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 31 abstentions. It follows now that T/15994 implementing Regulation (EC) No 2018/1672 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the control of cash entering and leaving the Union and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005 is being implemented. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment T/1599/45. and a summary report by T/15994.6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1599/45. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 187 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/159947. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 185 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. T/15992 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15992/4 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment and a summary report by T/155992/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15992/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 53 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/155992/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 53 abstentions. It follows that T15998 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15998/7. and a summary report by T/15998/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 122 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is also proposed by the Group leader László Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 67 votes in favour, 115 votes against and two abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15998/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 146 votes in favour, no votes against, with 38 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15998/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 149 votes in favour, no votes against, with 36 abstentions. C-66/18 of the Court of Justice of the European Union For the purpose of implementing the 2011 CCIV on national higher education, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. T/1590. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1599/6. and a summary report by T/1599/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1509/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes to 124, 4 votes against and 54 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1509/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 125 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 54 abstentions. I thank you for your cooperation, and we have reached the end of your decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[Several Members leave the Chamber.]] [[Break: 11.19 11.22]] (President: Dr. János Latorcai) Notes: Dr. István Tiba and Dr. Adam Steinmetz)
u2021-05-18-35	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. Following is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Presentation by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary T/16200. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, the national representative of the national minority, who speaks from here, from the platform, and who describes the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then continues to do so in translation into Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-36	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich als Einreicher der Gesetzesvorlage, mit Nr. 16200 über das Gesetzt Nr. CLXXIX von Jahr 2011 über die Rechte der Nationalitäten, entwickele. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/16200. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. the bill on the amendment of the law. For the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and Hungarian nationalities, it is always a day of celebration if we can submit a legislative proposal to Parliament, especially if we can do so as nationalists. We had no chance for this for many decades, but even after the change of regime, we had to wait more than two decades for this, since the issue of the parliamentary representation of Hungarian nationalities was only resolved in 2013. I mean, we could talk about more than two decades of insubordination, but thank God, it's in the past. The basic objective of the bill that has now been tabled is the future to set out clearly and clearly the rules of the national minority self-governments' decisions on the establishment of national minority lists in order to ensure that the nationality list set up as a national list in the election of parliamentary representatives in the framework of democratic legitimacy is clearly based on the legal decision of the national minority self-governments' general assemblies. The aim was perfectly clear, but the way it was implemented was not nearly as simple, since a number of sometimes conflicting, partly mutually exclusive aspects had to be taken into account, reconciled, coordinated and, as a result, the best compromise possible. One of the fundamental aspects of the regulation was not to violate the autonomy of national minority self-governments, nor to restrict the powers of the general meetings to decide. This was the same as ensuring the legality and transparency of the listing and the decision to choose the list from the other side. Of course, as in all legislative proposals today, the provision of data protection standards was a priority, in particular with regard to the fact that the listing process is, as appropriate, a decision-making process for natural persons and the result thereof. In addition, it was important to guarantee the possibility of redress and to align the normal decision-making mechanism of the municipalities and the remedies in this regard with the usual case law in the course of the election. Finally, it should not be forgotten that thirteen nationalities are thirteen different stories: the number of nationalities, their territorial location, the organisation of ethnic associations, the number of general assemblies, the procedures for the establishment and acceptance of the nationality list, and the organisational and operational regulations of the general meetings are different within the legal framework. All of this had to be examined, in particular, in order not to unduly make the establishment of a nationality list for one or more nationalities difficult or even impossible, thereby endangering the parliamentary representation of nationalities. For this reason, in preparing the amendment proposal, we have carried out the most extensive consultation and consultation of national and professional opinions, with full openness in the course of the work, looking at all the alternatives, their advantages and possible disadvantages, their risks, and finding the best solution acceptable to everyone. In the preparatory work, the Association of the National Government of Hungarian Nationalities, the Thirteen National Presidents and experts of the Offices, of course all members of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, the Deputy Commissioner for National Rights, and her colleagues, the National Election Office, the Prime Minister's Office and the relevant professional apparatus of the Ministry of Justice, participated actively in the preparatory work. The result of the work was this bill before you, with which all thirteen national ethnic authorities expressed their agreement in writing, unanimously supported by the wallets, and unanimously adopted and decided to submit it by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. I would like to thank all organisations and concrete people for their extremely open, efficient, smooth and targeted work in preparing the legislative amendment proposal. I must admit that, despite the weight of the tasks to be solved, sometimes differing viewpoints, and even debates, I have enjoyed working together, which has resulted in a bill acceptable to everyone. [[11.30]] Turning to the bill in particular, there was a substantive debate and a long discussion about the possibility, freedom, and legal obligation of national minority self-governments to make their decisions in any direction in order to achieve and guarantee the objective. After all, we have managed to find a solution that does not restrict the free decision-making powers of the general assemblies, i.e. the general assembly of each national minority self-government can decide and regulate in its organisational and operational regulations that it wishes to discuss the agenda for the national minority list set up as a national list in the election of Members of Parliament in an open or closed session and to take the decision by open or secret ballot. This is an extremely important result in the guarantee of autonomy in the local government. However, irrespective of whether the meeting of the General Assembly is public or closed, whether the vote is open or secret, the decision shall be public, with the exception of the personal identifier, and on the one hand the decision shall be set out in writing at the latest on the calendar day following the decision and published on the website of the national minority self-government other than the personal identifier; on the other hand, the decision shall be written no later than the third calendar day following the decision, and the decision shall be sent to the metropolitan and county government office supervising the legality of the national minority self-government; on the third hand, the decision shall include, in addition to the other conditions laid down in this Act, the names of the candidates and the serial numbers of their place on the list, as well as the identity of the candidates. This will also ensure that the decision is made public and that the legal course of the entire agenda for the decision can be clearly checked on legality. The legislative modification proposal states that, in order to reach a final decision as soon as possible, the decision may be reviewed in a way similar to electoral remedies in a way that allows the election office to be presented by the Budapest and county government office which supervises legality. In order to exercise the powers of judicial supervision, the Government Office is interested in the power of the law in the course of the proceedings, so that it may itself initiate a review of the decision in the event of detection of unlawfulness. It was also regulated by 117/A. In order to appeal against a decision pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 of this Article, only administrative non-court proceedings may be initiated. To open the administrative non-court procedure, the voter, who is a national elector, with effect from the election of parliamentary representatives, the candidate on the national minority list set up by the national minority self-government, the national minority nominating organisation setting up a list at the general national minority self-government elections prior to the establishment of the list, the member of the general assembly of the national minority self-government, and the natural or legal person involved in the case, an organisation without legal personality, in particular the municipal and regional minority self-governments, Section 2. National minority organisation within the meaning of point 14 or point 2 of Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The national minority association within the meaning of point 15 of the Article shall be entitled. In this way, it has been named and clarified who can make use of the possibility of redress against the decision. In order to initiate and assess the administrative non-court procedure, the 2013 XXXVI on the electoral procedure was adopted. The rules governing the revision of the National Election Committee shall apply, with the derogations set out in paragraphs (2), (4) and (5). The administrative non-court proceedings shall be initiated through the Budapest and County Government Office, which supervises the legality of the national minority self-government. The application shall be submitted in such a way that it is not later than 117/A. On the 3rd calendar day following the publication of the decision pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Act, you will arrive at the Budapest and County Government Office. The application shall be accompanied by all evidence other than the minutes of the decision. The metropolitan and county government office shall submit the appeal application and its annexes and the minutes of the decision to the Curia on the 4th calendar day following the publication of the decision of the general meeting. In the event of a failure to submit the application by the metropolitan and county government office, the legal consequences of the delay shall not apply. On the basis of the request for review, the Curia shall confirm or annul the decision of the General Assembly. The Curia shall inform the applicant, the national minority self-government, the metropolitan and county government office and the National Election Committee of its decision. In the absence of an appeal, the Government Office of Budapest and County shall also immediately inform the National Election Committee of the decision taken by the General Assembly. As a result, we believe that all legal and regulatory conditions will be laid down to ensure that the proper procedures of national governments' assemblies regarding the establishment of nationality lists are legally examined, maintained or, if necessary, annulled in accordance with the rules of the Act on Election Procedure concerning the revision of the National Election Committee's decision. In order to allow sufficient time for a decision to be taken after any appeal procedure has been brought to an end, 117/A. In paragraph 1 it was also clearly regulated that the general assembly of the national minority self-government shall decide on the establishment of the nationality list by a decision not earlier than 1 October of the year preceding the general election of the Members of Parliament, no later than 20 days after the establishment of the general election of the Members of Parliament. This was not clear in the rules so far, so the general assembly of several national minority self-governments made virtually twice the decision to draw up the list: once months before the general election of the Members of Parliament was set, so that the list could be available and the members of the national minority could be informed of this at the time of registration and the preparation of the election; then, after the date of the general election of the Members of Parliament, they repeated this decision, in order to prevent the previous decision from being considered unlawful after a possible appeal procedure. In addition to the specifics of this amendment, it is also necessary to mention issues which are closely related to the subject but which have not been amended in relation to the current legislation. One of these fundamental issues was the legitimacy of the list of national minorities, the quality of the decision necessary for the adoption of the list. During the preparation of the bill, the vast majority of nationalities had the need and opinion that the decision on the nationality list was taken by the general assembly of national minority self-governments by a legally qualified majority, so that the decision would reflect the majority's will. It is important to mention here that there is a completely different practice for the drawing up of lists for individual nationalities, as well as for the preparation of such lists. There are nationalities, where members of the general meeting are already nominated and elected by consensus, through a nominating organisation, and then the nationality list set up as a national list at the election of Members of Parliament will also be adopted by consensus, essentially unanimously, on the basis of different prior consultations and procedures. [[11.40]] At the same time, there are nationalities where members of the general meeting are appointed through up to four or five nominating organisations, and for various reasons there is no common position within the general meeting. If there is no consensus in the preparation of the list of national minorities set up in the elections of Members of Parliament, the person on the list and their order will be drawn up in the context of the relevant agenda and, if appropriate, the decision will be taken. The decision by a qualified majority was primarily raised by the National Roma Municipality, as, in their opinion, the statutory requirement of a qualified majority may not be guaranteed in the General Assembly of the National Roma Municipality, and this may, in extreme cases, mean that the Roma nationality may remain without parliamentary representation. Now seven years ago, when I said in my first speech to Parliament, that the constant test of democracy, the sensitivity and quality of democracy, is a characteristic of the level and extent to which the majority appreciates the needs and demands of minorities, in this case nationalities. For in a democracy minorities, in our case nationalities alone, could never, by democratic means, enforce their interests. As they are smaller in numbers, it is mathematically impossible to vote in favour of their proposals on their own, and this is always possible, and in all circumstances, only through the sensitivity and democratic assistance of the majority. On this subject, we are now in the position that, despite the fact that the vast majority of nationalities consider it important and necessary to make a decision by qualified majority, we still maintain our opinion, but at the request of the National Roma Municipality, we have waived the legal requirement to do so. Another issue is that, at the same time, most national minority self-governments, on the basis of their own decision, and in their own organizational and operational regulations, require that the nationality list set up as a national list in the election of Members of Parliament be based on the decision of the majority of the general assembly of the national minority self-government. But this is no longer a legal obligation, but a decision of the general assembly of all national minority self-governments. However, in order to enable this decision to be taken by a qualified majority, the proposed act is 117/A. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 clearly states that because of personal involvement, a member of the General Assembly cannot be excluded from the decision. This was also important because the majority of national minority authorities, in addition to the mandatory 3-5 persons, voted for up to 25-30 persons, mainly the most well-known leaders of the national minority in each region, who, in most cases, are general meeting members, thus the exclusion from the decision due to personal involvement would jeopardise not only the decision taken by a qualified majority, but also by a simple majority of the normal majority. The possibility of exclusion from the vote due to personal involvement is not justified, as the first member of the list, after the parliamentary election a minority advocate or a national minority representative, must resign before taking over the mandate if and if he was a member of the general assembly, and even at the time of his parliamentary mandate, no national minority self-government may be a member. On the other hand, from the second member of the list, the rest of the list will not be a parliamentary spokesperson or a representative, so that conflicts of interest cannot arise in this way. In this context, the legislative amendment also clearly settles the issue, namely Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v). In paragraph 4 of the Section, that the general assembly of the national minority self-government, regardless of whether the meeting is public or closed, may participate as a permanent invitation to the meeting, or as a representative of the national minority, or as a representative of the national minority. Finally, I would like to point out that since it is CLXXIX in 2011. There were several versions in circulation, such as the Nek Act, Njtv, which were left over from the period of the minority law, to shorten the law on the rights of national minorities. Law and the rest, which is why we have stated that this law is not covered by any other legislation. it must be marked with an abbreviation. Mr President, Dear House, As the chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as the rapporteur of the bill, I can also convey the unified opinion of our committee and the nationalities in Hungary, as well as my personal conviction that with the proposed bill, we hope to be able to properly establish and regulate legal gaps that can be facilitated, to ensure that the decision to represent nationalities in Hungary in Parliament reflects the majority of the will of those nationalities, and that the procedure and decision to do so is lawful in all respects. This is not only a question of nationality, regardless of whether our amendment only covers the rules on the election of minority advocates and representatives of nationalities, but this is also part of the parliamentary election at the moment, so we consider it extremely important that this is done in an appropriate regulatory environment. I would also like to stress that during the preparation of the bill, I have sent the current state of affairs to two meetings, opinions to all parliamentary groups and to all independent Members of Parliament, so that at the stage of preparation, we have provided everyone with the opportunity to make any additional comments that might have been amended. Those who made use of this option have been substantially discussed in finalising the amending proposal and taken into account in the amending proposal. Of course, I look forward to your comments and your comments now, and I will try to respond to them as best I can. Finally, allow me to make one more comment. On the basis of the customary law on ourselves, i.e. on minority advocates and representatives of nationalities, we strive to maintain that, if possible, we only take a position on the national aspects of the laws, as in this bill we have only sought to optimise, regulate, and in any form, to any extent, to regulate wider political issues or to amend at any level. That is why I ask you, of course, not to limit anyone's right to comment and subject matter by accident, that I look primarily for your comments on the concrete legislative proposal tabled, and that I would like to respond, if possible, to national issues only. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2021-05-18-37	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. It's got a 30-minute time frame.
u2021-05-18-38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Speaking Lady and Lords! Hungary's nationalism policy is exemplary at European level, with due modesty, but supported by government decisions and achievements over the past ten years, we are proud to say so. [[11.50]] The importance of this generous and supportive national policy can be assessed in particular in the light of what we see and unfortunately experience in the European Union. While the EU advocates nationalities, national minorities in their use of the word, when concrete action should be taken, the enthusiasm will run out, instead of the real answers to real problems, there will be a bleak talk called politically correct. Think of the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative, which was shamed by the European Commission in January this year. Its decision ignored the needs of nationalities in the European Union, the explicit request of over one million European citizens, and the resolution of many regions, several European governments, and even the European Parliament. This is a blow not only to nationalities, but also to European democracy. That is why it is a pleasure that the Hungarian Parliament announced in its resolution on 28 April that it will continue to stand up for the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative and through it for nearly 10 percent of the Hungarian communities from abroad and the population of the European Union, as well as the statements made in favour of indigenous nationalities in our country. We regret, of course, that the present Member, László Hajdu, did not, while he boycotted this vote with the absence of the DK faction. With regard to Hungary, the European Commission is often concerned about false problems and false reasoning. Instead, we propose to study the national policy of our country, which we can warmly recommend to the attention of the European Commission and any EU Member State. It would be good for every Member State to support nationalities living in its territory in Europe as we do, I would add, regardless of what our current political relations with the mother countries of those nationalities are, left- or right-wing, friendly or not too friendly. This kind of security, predictability, is part of the real help of nationalities. The importance of indigenous nationalities living with us is well demonstrated by the fact that the nationalities living in Hungary are part of the Hungarian political community and state-creating factors, both in the preamble, in the National Creed and in the norm of the new Fundamental Law adopted in 2011. The state decides to protect and cultivate the language and culture of nationalities and to help them. Article XXIX of the Fundamental Law According to Article 4 of the Act, any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to a free confession and preservation of his or her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. Nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments, as well as a fundamental law laying down detailed rules on the rights of nationalities. The rights of nationality as well as the rights of minority self-government in the year 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. It's in law. As we know, the law is a system that is constantly in motion. By spring 2020, a comprehensive review of the nationality law was necessary as a result of comprehensive checks and regular contacts. Practical experience has shown that different interpretations of the law have occurred in several cases, and in some cases the lack of regulation has also been observed. It is therefore necessary to initiate a single, comprehensive review based on enforcement experience. I would like to note that all this amendment to the national minority law has been submitted to the Parliament by the nationalities themselves through their parliamentary representation. So much for the lack of democracy. T/10303 amending the law on the rights of nationalities Amendment No XXIX of the Fundamental Law In compliance with the obligations referred to in Article 4 of the Treaty, the national authorities have clarified in some areas the requests they have asked for. In particular, the amendment also proposed to reduce the possible emergence of ethnobnis, incorporating guarantees and brakes. In addition, it had the benefit of institution-supporting nationalities to acquire ownership of all the institutions in which they were raised, educated; it allowed them to set up and maintain social care institutions. The amendment also made it clear that the public hearing is a form of the representative board meeting, the practical importance of which is particularly relevant for the task-based support of national self-governments when examining the conditions for entitlement to it. Last year, the law guaranteed that textbooks could be obtained free of charge for students participating in ethnic education. The protection of personal data was also provided for in the law. Dear Parliament, It is a pleasure that this was adopted last year, in June 2020 by a four-fifth majority, with the exception of the National Assembly, DK. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Dear Parliament, National elections in 2022 also affect national electors, which is why this year we need to change the two-thirds law. On the national minority list set up by national national minority authorities, with a reduced quota, parliamentary representatives and, if they fail to achieve this, ethnic advocates may be sent to the parliament by national electorate. The rules on the establishment of the nationality list are set out in CCIII of 2011 on the election of Members of Parliament. by law. In the view of the representatives of the Hungarian nationalities, it has become essential to lay down detailed rules on the establishment of the nationality list in order to ensure uniform application of the law and the purity of the election. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, following a comprehensive consultation with the professional wallets, the National Election Office and the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary, T/16200 on 11 May 2021. has submitted to the National Assembly a bill containing an amendment of the national minority law in relation to the establishment of a nationality list. On the basis of the bill, the national minority self-government may attend the general assembly as a permanent invitation to attend, with the right to consult, whether the meeting of the general assembly is public or closed. The general assembly of the national minority self-government shall decide on the establishment of the nationality list in the non-transferable competence of the national minority self-government. The General Assembly shall take the decision on the establishment of the nationality list at the earliest on 1 October of the calendar year preceding the general election of Members of Parliament and at the latest within 20 calendar days of the date of the general election of Members of Parliament. The General Assembly may hold a closed meeting on the issue of listing. Due to personal involvement, the representative, the advocate, cannot be excluded from the decision. The decision shall be in writing and published on the website of the national minority self-government at the latest on the calendar day following the decision. In order to make the final decision as early as possible, the decision may be reviewed in a similar manner to the electoral redress procedure, during which the proposed function of the election office is carried out by the Budapest and county government office which supervises legality. [[12.00]] In order to exercise the powers of judicial supervision, the Government Office is interested in the power of the law in the course of the proceedings, so it may itself initiate a review of the decision in the event of detection of unlawfulness. An application for review may be made only on grounds of serious infringement of the provisions of the law; in particular, it shall be deemed to be an infringement of the law affecting the legality of the listing or where, in the course of the listing, the exercise of the rights and obligations set out in this Act does not comply with the requirement of exercising the right of good faith and conformity. Ladies and gentlemen, The main national policy objective of the government led by the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association is to provide members of the 13 nationalities native to our country with the possibility of individual and community residence. This has also been associated with unprecedented assistance and outstanding increase in resources since 2010. Nationality grants already represent more than five increases for domestic nationalities over the years 2010-2020. From HUF 15.2 billion in 2019, the 2020 budget increased by HUF 3.1 billion in the first step and then by HUF 5 billion in the next step. On the basis of this year's budget for 2021 and government decisions to date, HUF 20 billion is available for these purposes. Dear Parliament, The law and the bill are supported by the Hungarian government, even because a long-standing request has been made by the minority advocates, the Member, and the leaders of national minorities, for which there was a great need to change; therefore, the government's support has been granted. Thank you very much for your work so far, for the work of the minority committee, and, of course, we also ask for the supporting work and votes of the other groups. This is not a question of Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2021-05-18-39	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Brenner Koloman wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, which agrees that Vice-President Brenner Koloman should be able to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who wishes to give his speech on the pulpit. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-18-40	Dear Lords of the President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear fellow Members, The Fundamental Law of Hungary is the XXIX. In his article, he declared that nationalities living in our country are state-creating factors:. Each Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his or her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. For at least a century, nationality has been resident in the territory of Hungary, which has been in a numerical minority among the population of the state, distinguishing it from the rest of the population by its own language, culture and traditions, and making sure that it is connected to the preservation of all this, the expression and protection of the interests of their historically established communities. So that's the definition of law. We all know, who are here in Parliament, that there are currently 13 indigenous nationalities living in our country, for whose survival, culture, and for the wider sense of identity, the government that has existed since 2010 has done a lot of this, too, partly spoken Secretary of State. As an example, the amount of support for nationalities has increased significantly since 2010, resulting in an increase in their cultural and educational autonomy, with an 8-fold increase in the number of ethnic schools since 2010. Hungary's nationality policy is also important for long-term good neighbourly cooperation with the mother countries of indigenous nationalities. In Hungary, there have been more nationalities living together since the founding of the state, and today perhaps about 10 percent of the population are considered to belong to a nationality. The fact that nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments was also recorded at a basic level, and what is more, it is exemplary that since 2014, the presence of nationalities in Hungary has been guaranteed in the National Assembly according to the fundamental law; a number of ethnic advocates are still sitting here with us at the meeting of this agenda, and thanks to the ethnicity quota, Imre Ritter of the German nationality was able to send a Member of Parliament to the Hungarian legislature in the person of our expozet member. Allow me, fellow Members, to quote the idea of our late Minister of Culture and of our excellent reformer, József Eötvös, as well as of József Baron, on the basis of the country's general interests or the particular interests of individual nationalities, on a calm basis, we can only get one conviction, and this is that the interests of the historical and political nations can only be guaranteed by satisfying the needs of each ethnicity in the language. .. in the House.. I believe that these sublime ideas are an eloquent example of the need for the government to work closely together with our indigenous nationalities in the implementation of fundamental national interests and in the decisions determining the fate of the country. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Imre Ritter, presented to us in his expose the essential criteria of the bill before us. Allow me to highlight some of the main points of this, as if confirming them. In April 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary initiated an amendment to the law on the rights of nationalities, as it became essential to lay down detailed rules on the establishment of a nationality list in order to ensure a uniform application of the law. State Secretary Soltesz listed the wide-ranging consultation of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary before the proposal was made. There was also a consultation with the representatives of the election office, and T/16200. He submitted a bill on the House's table. In addition to the current legislation, which was amended in 2011 and 2020, it makes it clear that at the general assembly of the national minority self-government, the parliamentary representative belonging to the national minority, who has obtained a mandate on the list, as well as the national minority advocate, may participate as a permanent invitation, with the right to consult, regardless of whether this takes place in a closed session or in a public meeting. In order to ensure democratic legitimacy, the provision of the proposal to decide on the establishment of a nationality list in the non-transferable competence of the general assembly of the national minority self-government should be emphasised. It should also be noted that the rules governing the drawing up of lists should also apply to the filling of the vacant list mandate. It should be pointed out that the General Assembly may hold a closed meeting on the issue of listing and that the decision cannot be ruled out by the Member because of personal involvement. The bill also sets out the mandatory content of the decision, which is the following, and I will partly repeat those listed by the speakers before me: the names of the candidates and the serial numbers of their place on the list and their personal identification. It is also an important requirement that the decision to make a nationality list be taken by the general assembly at the earliest on 1 October of the calendar year preceding the general election of Members of Parliament, and no later than 20 days after its establishment. [[12.10]] Dear Parliament, The decision thus reached shall be in writing at the latest on the calendar day following the decision and shall be published on the website of the national national minority self-government and shall be recorded in writing by the 3rd calendar day following the decision and sent to the legal authority, i.e. the metropolitan and county government office. In a manner similar to electoral remedies, the decision taken will be reviewed in a sombre procedure, thus helping to make the final decision as early as possible. In this case, the promotional function of the election office shall be performed by the metropolitan and county government offices. It should be noted, however, that the Government Office, acting under its judicial authority, may, by virtue of the law, initiate a review of the decision itself if it detects its unlawful nature. I believe that the provision of the proposal that a request for review can only be submitted by reference to a serious breach of the provision of the law should be underlined. In order to serve as an example, such is, in particular, an infringement affecting the legality of listing or the exercise of the rights and obligations set out in this Act does not comply with the requirements of good faith and proper exercise of the law. The Curia shall uphold or annul the decision of the General Assembly against the electoral procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, the Government of Hungary decided to maintain close contact with our national governments in order to pursue our national strategic interests and achieve our common goals. Nationalities living in our country have increased the cultural heritage of the Hungarian nation with their culture and traditions. I live in an area where I am an elected representative, where there are many German-speaking national minorities, where a number of German ethnic primary schools have been established, which work well and send children with very good abilities to secondary education. The whole vertices are also being built, there is a kindergarten, a primary school, and in high schools, besides the rule of English language learning, German learning has also become important. In my view, therefore, the proposal on the House's table guarantees the enforcement of the rights of nationalities living in Hungary and the promotion of their participation in society. We thank the Fidesz faction for the joint cooperation in the country building and, in view of the expozee and the government attitude of the Secretary of State, which we have just heard, also supports the proposed bill. I would also ask the fellow Members to support the bill in view of the importance of the case. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-18-41	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice-President Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group, who says the first sentence in German and then translates it into Hungarian. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2021-05-18-42	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Sehr geehrter Herr Abgeordneter Ritter, ich möchte Ihnen im Namen der Volkspartei Jobbik versichern, dass wir, da für uns dieses Anliegen der Nationalitäten von Anfang an eine besondere Herzensangeleginheit war, unterstützen werden und dementsprechend werde ich dann dies in meiner Rede auch auf Ungarisch wiederholen. Dear Congressman Ritter, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the issue of domestic nationalities has always been a priority issue for the EPP Jobbik, the bill before us will, of course, be supported by the Jobbik faction. I would also like to point out, in particular, that we were the only political party on which, for example, we made very broad and detailed information about our programme for nationalities in Hungary in our last election programme in 2018. We are pleased to see that the Hungarian minority protection system is indeed on the right track, as Mr Secretary of State has indicated, in a European comparison, but, of course, one of the most positive developments in recent years has been the representation of national minorities in Parliament. Here, Hungarian citizens belonging to the national minority have been able to provide spokespersons to the National Assembly for two cycles, and the Hungarian Germans have also been able to present a representative in the National Assembly. What I would like to note here is that this option is more realistic for the two largest nationalities in Hungary, so for the Roma and the German nationalities in Hungary, for the other nationalities, there could be more positive solutions in international comparison than the state of the advocate, but the current state, of course, as I have indicated, could also be a very positive state in international comparison. In the last cycle, of course, the representative of the Hungarian Germans was placed in a domestic political force, and in this regard I think that both the Germans and the wider public will judge this activity. I would also like to mention that I would like to highlight only one issue which is not specifically related to this bill, and this is the loss of the language of nationalities in Hungary, because this is, to be seen, the issue on which, despite all positive changes, this type of system has not yet given an effective response that we can see its positive results. I think that positive changes in the national minority education system have indeed occurred in relation to the fact that national minority self-governments can also operate some of the elements of the nationality school system as a maintainer, but here it would be very important to put the national minority education and education in it to a completely different level, and I think that we should really have something to do together so that we can get through this very difficult problem in a positive way. I would also like to raise a question that we hope will be a very positive and new signal for national minorities in the national unity government, which we hope will be set up in 2022, in which the EPP Jobbik wishes to play a decisive role as the only right-wing, centre-right party of the opposition, namely the priority economic support of the regions inhabited by nationalities. So we think that most nationalities in Hungary live in such small and economically disadvantaged areas that the National Unity Government, which stood up in 22 will seek to remedy this with concrete measures. In these areas, for example, migration is incredibly high, which affects these settlements, which are usually small, or ageing, so there are a lot of issues that are not strictly national policy, but the disappearance or at least ageing of settlements inhabited by nationalities must be addressed in some form. Such an area of the country is, for example, East Baranya, where my old friend and the better representative of Baranya County General Assembly, Schwarcz-Kiefer Patrik, will be running for election at Mohács Central. I think that this is also important because he is pursuing the political activity that shows that there are problems in the area of nationalities in our country from the point of view of democracy. [[12.20]] The current proposal, as Mr Ritter has indicated, is a proposal of a more technical nature which specifically concerns the internal autonomy of domestic nationalities. So the internal autonomy of how to choose the list leader from whom he can potentially become a Member of Parliament or spokesperson. I think that Mr Ritter's exposé also revealed that there were nationalities in which there were internal political debates and difficulties during the candidacy that justified this amendment. Since the consultations have been carried out with both legal and electoral experts and individual ethnic authorities concerned, I do not wish to classify these amendments on behalf of Jobbik; I can only accept, of course, that if this is the request of the national authorities, we will be able to support this on behalf of the Jobbik faction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-18-43	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, who wishes to give his speech on the pulpit. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-18-44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable representative of the national minority. Speaking Lady and Lords! Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has been a multi-ethnic, multi-ethnic state, a country since the founding of the state, and, as was the case at the time, more than a millennium, as has been the case over the last few decades, Hungary is a multi-ethnic country, with around 10 percent of its population claiming to belong to a nationality. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, In Hungary, there were radical changes after 2010, and during this period, when we put the lives of nationalities on a completely new legal basis, we adopted Hungary's new Fundamental Law, which guarantees the preservation of the nationalities living in Hungary, the preservation of their identity; its language and culture must be protected and helped by the state. Given that we have already heard this quote, let me bring to you the wording of the Fundamental Law:. The nationalities living in Hungary are state-creating factors. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. The nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments, and, as I said, the Hungarian state has an obligation to protect and cultivate the language, culture of nationalities, and to help preserve their identity. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We also adopted the fundamental law on the rights of nationalities in 2011 based on this Fundamental Law, as laid down in the Fundamental Law, and the new nationality law, CLXXIX, 2011 came before the House on the basis of the basic law mandate. Law. In fact, this law has created a new legal framework for the lives of nationalities. Allow me to highlight only two small details, two minor points on this new law, the 2011 National Rights Act. We used to talk a lot and argue about the presence and phenomenon of ethnobnis. This law was meant to eliminate the phenomenon of ethnobinis. I believe that we have made significant progress in this area at the time by adopting this law. The other important element of this law was to authenticate our authentic indigenous ethnic communities, in part by reducing the phenomenon of ethno-bizniss, and even hoping that we almost completely eliminated or re-introduced the concept of "nationality". With regard to the re-introduction of the concept of ethnicity, allow me to quote from the speech by Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, which I think is a clever summary of why we considered it important in 2011 to cancel the concept of " Minority" in this area and to include the concept of "Nationality" in the legal framework. The Deputy Prime Minister considers the term "the minority" to be extremely unfortunate and unworthy, because, as he puts it, man can inevitably associate himself with the less, even though the ethnicities of Hungary are no less than anyone else. The fact that the number of a community is smaller, it can be greater in its spirituality, culture, value. More accurate than the, he considers the term "nationality" and the "national part" to be an expression, because it expresses that it is part of the mother nation and is part of a larger community. Ladies and gentlemen, I have therefore just mentioned that, after 2010, we have put the lives of ethnic communities on a completely new legal basis. I could put it this way: we have created a model in Hungary. This Hungarian model has four very important pillars, and in recent years we have been trying to further strengthen these four pillars. One of the most important pillars of this model of ethnicity in Hungary is not only the creation, but also the continuous maintenance, extension and strengthening of the system of national minority self-government, because this system of self-governments has created and guarantees the cultural and, in some areas, territorial autonomy of ethnic communities in an exemplary manner in Europe as well. Another pillar of this Hungarian model is the establishment of a system of ethnic institutions. Although this may be an exaggeration, because there have always been ethnic institutions at some level, I think that we are talking about a completely different situation qualitatively, because there have been huge changes in this area in terms of ethnic education, public education, cultural and other institutions. We consider the system of ethnic institutions to be a pillar that guarantees the survival and future of indigenous ethnic communities. So I think that this is a very important pillar, which we must constantly strengthen, help and support by all possible and available means. The third important pillar of this Hungarian model is the implementation of the parliamentary representation, which has been discussed here, in the Parliament for decades, in the Hungarian public speech as well, but interestingly no one could or did not want to do so, I could say that there was no real political will for it. [[12.30]] We have been able to achieve this together in recent years, the political will has been established, and with a joint, big breath we have created the parliamentary representation of nationalities, a system of ethnic advocates, and the possibility of a preferential nationality quota, which has allowed the German minority community to delegate a minority representative to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget the next and yet equally important pillar of this Hungarian model, which, unfortunately, I see, we are forgetting, and this is that, while we have developed this institutional system, partly municipal institutions, partly institutional systems, the institutional system of parliamentary representation, while the Hungarian political, the Hungarian state has not broken down the support and support of ethnic civil communities and ethnic ecclesiastical communities. In Hungarian, the fourth important pillar of this Hungarian model continues to be the further preservation, retention, support, strengthening and, of course, budget and funding of the ethnic civil communities and ethnic ecclesiastical communities. I believe that these fundamental pillars are all important for the whole construction itself, that particular model of ethnicity in Hungary, the Hungarian model, to function well, safely and predictablely, and we should never forget that everything has a single purpose for the nationalities of Hungary to enjoy themselves here in Hungary; feel at home here in Hungary, knowing that this country is a factor of state making and doing everything we can to preserve these nationalities, their mother tongue, their culture and their identity. I must be honest with you that while I was listening to my better fellow Member, I wrote a fifth one next to the four pillars, and that is to help in the areas of small ethnic settlements. My good-looking fellow Member has probably forgotten about this, but we have already started a programme called the "Hungarian Village" for three years and we hope that they are aware of this, and this is precisely the goal and not unsuccessfully that we offer a variety of opportunities in small settlements in Hungary and in part in small settlements created by indigenous nationalities, in terms of the number of souls in these settlements, and partly in terms of the construction of their future. The Hungarian village programme therefore helps in this area, partly to provide municipal services, partly to ensure the conditions of the community's various community events there, partly with the help of the village CSOK, of course with the possibility of staying there, and of course with a number of other measures which are designed to ensure that ethnic communities living in small settlements can stay in their own places, where their ancestors have lived for centuries. On the basis of all this, I can say that today the community life of nationality flourishes in Hungary, including in these small settlements. Here I could give an example of my own constituency, in which both the Croatian, Gypsy, Roma and German ethnic communities live a prosperous, but prosperous community life. Unfortunately, this community life has now been tested and tested by the pandemic, but regardless of this, I think that over the last few years we can experience step by step, year by year, period by period that these ethnic communities have been reliving, not only their past, but also their present and future in this country, in this country, and in the settlements where these ethnic communities have lived and live for centuries. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the speakers before me have made the bill before us very, very detailed, I am only touching it in broad terms. In any case, let me just say that the amount of national minority support has increased six times since 2010 and that the number of ethnic schools has increased eight times since 2010. All of this supports what I was just about to say, so that today in Hungary the life of nationality and the life of national communities is really booming and there are new opportunities ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to underline that the bill before us has also been mentioned here with unanimous support from our fellow Member, Imre Ritter, to the Parliament, not only in the committee, in the committees, but almost if I have understood it correctly at the end of all negotiations. Although there have been debates, which is normal, at the end of each consultation, everyone has actually given their support and blessing to this bill. I think it's very important, it's a huge thing. The aim of this bill is, as we have heard, legitimacy, transparency, the establishment of a clear and traceable set of rules and the provision of redress. On this basis, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary faction of the Christian Democratic People's Party naturally supports the bill before us, and I ask that everyone support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-18-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, who also wishes to give his speech on the pulpit. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-18-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speakers, Dear Presents, with particular regard to representatives of national self-governments. Many of the people who spoke before me have interpreted the legislation quite expansively and not only spoke directly about the text of the norm, but it is also appropriate, because this is a general debate and perhaps an opportunity to say what our basic position is in relation to nationalities and what has happened in recent years. Allow me, therefore, to clarify my basic position as a left-wing man and as a member of the MSZP fraction, first of all on the basis of principle. We are absolutely committed, and I am also committed to the protection of the rights of national minorities. I am committed to the broadest possible enforcement of the rights of nationalities. This is, therefore, a fundamental position that I wanted to state as a social democrat. At the same time, there was a reference to this, and I definitely identify with it, that there are practical basic positions here in the Carpathian Basin; there are borders in the Carpathian Basin, and in fact we live in a very large group of national minorities, which are still native to this day, beyond our borders, our fellow Hungarian nations. Therefore, I think that the practical aspect is important, too, that it is important to have a very, very high respect for the nationalities living in our country, because we can hope for reciprocity, and we can hope that the neighbouring countries will treat their national minorities in a similar way, including the Hungarians living there, because we have been living together here in the Carpathian Basin for over a millennium, and it is important that we can continue to live the fullness of everyone's rights and live in peace here in the Carpathian Basin. [[12.40]] So much for the basic principles, and directly for the legislation, I can say that there are indeed very many and very detailed views on this, both as Secretary of State and as Imre Ritter's author. I do not think that this should be very detailed, but allow me to make some points. It was necessary to clarify the participation in the general assembly of the national minority self-government, and this proposal was necessary because the legislation has so far only fixed the possibility of participation on a general basis. The amendment makes it clear that the regulation applies to both open and closed sessions. In the substance of the legislation on the establishment of the national minority list, let us say that there is actually no big change, because so far the general assembly of the national minority self-government has had the right to decide on the adoption of the nationality list. However, this has so far not been included in the 2011 National Rights Act, which regulates this, so that this amendment will replace this deficit. 117. on the tasks of the General Assembly § received an 117/A. And an 117/B. Section 2 which sets out the details of the adoption of the list and the remedies. It has also been said here that the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary unanimously supported this proposal, and it is even present here as a presenter in the proposal, and that during the preparation, if there were discussions, there was consensus. Therefore, I can say that, in line with what is stated in my basic proposal and in particular, the MSZP does not wish to influence the rules under which nationalities adopt the nationality list, so we consider this proposal acceptable. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-18-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who also wants to talk about the pulpit. Here you go.
u2021-05-18-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is always a great pleasure to talk in the House about the rights of nationalities and the extraordinary respect of nationalities by the citizens of our country in Parliament. I think that it is unique not only in Europe, but also in the world, how the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian citizens, treat nationalities institutionally in Hungary. It seems to me that this has improved in recent years, and it is quite difficult to imagine that a nationality citizen would not find either prosperity, life support, or the community of residence or culture in which he can develop, and in which he can live not only as a Hungarian citizen but also as a nationality citizen in Hungary. It is of great value to me, too, that there are advocates of indigenous nationalities in Parliament, that there is a minority advocate in Parliament who also has the right to vote. But allow me to say a few words about why this type of amendment should take place in the Parliament. The representative of both the national and government said that this was done because the national governments and national minority authorities asked the National Assembly, asking the Government to introduce these detailed rules into the Nationalities Act. However, if we look at these amendments and that is why my fellow Member, László Varga, said that the speeches of both the expozé and the government station and the various fellow Members go far beyond the proposal itself, this is because in this proposal there are natural provisions in everyday municipal life, which I also thought might not need a law, and they should not be included in a bill. What am I talking about? Well, isn't it natural for a local or national representative of a minority government to attend the general assembly of the national government at least with the right to consult? Isn't that natural? Well, how do you convey the expectations and ideas of the members of the national self-government, your questions about the assessment of the situation of nationality, how can a representative represent you if you are unable to attend the highest forum where this is discussed nationally? Or if I look at why it had to be incorporated into the law and why it cannot be recorded in a general assembly statute or some sort of statute, why it should not be decided by the general assembly of the legitimate national self-government in order to establish a national list. Well, who would decide if it wasn't the national government? This means that there must have been at least one nationality municipality, where these questions were not natural. And if I go on, at every point, when it's about what period the national minority government has to decide on the national list, well, couldn't it just be left to a local government to decide when? In the electoral law, it is written out exactly what time limit a national list should be presented, for example. Why should a law state the discretionary right of a national government to submit its national list by the deadline, which is included in the electoral law? And you don't expect to be born by legitimate decision? In a democracy, in a local government world, in a country perfectly built up with democratic institutions such as Hungary, is it not natural for those organizations and their associations to decide on these detailed rules? I wish to stress that I do not think that the government wanted to interfere in the lives of the municipalities in this way. You can see that this proposal is a help. It helps to minimise disputes within the municipalities, within the minority self-governments. It's helpful that if the law requires something, no one can think otherwise. However, allow me to state the expectation that not only national authorities, but also any kind of community, if you think that you have an independent entity, an independent way of thinking, an independent way of doing things, you can create these democratic rules yourself and you can exercise them yourself. I only thought that I would share these thoughts with you, because I believe that almost everything in Hungary is over-regulated, that the space of movement is often thrown away from the natural processes of everyday life. Many times there are rules contrary to human nature, we almost have to force ourselves to comply with the rules, and therefore I think that a lot of things can be left to the communities. What do we see now? That the reason why the Parliament has to make a law amendment is because there were people who probably couldn't do it without law. And I think, of course, by voting in favour of this proposal, because the most important thing for us is that our nationalities, not only as citizens, but also their self-governments, live their lives in peace, understanding each other and cooperating, but if we expect everything from the law, then how can we, after a while, say that we are capable of anything, if we cannot make the natural decisions of everyday life by consensus and without law? So thank you for your kind attention. Of course, I am a great believer and supporter of all national governments, and I ask you that if both Hungarian citizens and the Hungarian Parliament are already doing everything they can to ensure that your cultural, economic and intellectual identity is at the highest level in our country, then you should do everything in your power to ensure that this infinite close love relationship remains balanced in the long term. Thank you very much for your attention. [[12.50]]
u2021-05-18-49	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Since no two-minute speeches have been made, there is now room for further speeches by Members. I'm asking you, would someone like to live with that? [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask President Ritter Imre if he would like to speak on behalf of the authors. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to President Ritter Imre as rapporteur, chairman of the nationality committee. Here you go.
u2021-05-18-50	Thank you very much. In advance, I would like to thank all the speakers on the part of the government and all the factions for their decisively positive statements on the legislative amendment proposal and their support for its adoption. Allow me to make some specific comments or to react. I would, of course, like to thank the Secretary of State for his continued support for the last seven years, and for the continued support of this bill as well as of almost all national needs. Thank you for that, and we will, of course, continue to demand this. To the Minority SafePack, there is only one thought: obviously, the committee of nationality supports all initiatives in this direction, not only does it support it, but at the Minority SafePack we also presented the 2017 Parliamentary Declaration directly; now the National Assembly Committee has preceded us, so we are naturally connected to it. But that should be the biggest problem, which one of us is putting it in, the point is its content, and it is not a question of whether this is a very important issue for the future of Europe as well. I'll admit, until yesterday afternoon, I was still on the verge and I was thinking about giving the opening speech about the pulpit. I'm very glad that I finally initiated this and decided to do so. Thank you very much, everyone, to the speakers, for this being a formal question, that someone is talking about the pulpit, but I think I can say on behalf of all of us that this, together, honors the indigenous nationalities in Hungary and shows that this issue, the law on the rights of nationalities, is a priority for everyone, and I thank all speakers for this. I would like to thank Dr. Zoltán Kovács for the idea of the role of nationality in the development of good neighbourly relations with mother countries, as well as additional comments on the bill. Let me make one small clarification: not the number of ethnic public education institutions, but the number of institutions with minority self-government reservations has multiplied eight times over the last 8-10 years, which is an extremely important and decisive issue for education and cultural autonomy. So I do not want to reduce this progress, just to be precise. In the speech by Vice-President Brenner Koloman, with his comment on the loss of language and his statement that this does not, of course, belong directly to the subject of the current bill, but I fully agree, and I would also like to draw his attention and Parliament's attention to the fact that we really see a completely new qualitative step forward in the area of higher education in nationality as our number one priority. To this end, we have been able to make very significant progress in recent weeks on the restructuring of higher education, since, on the one hand, it has been clarified in relation to the Higher Education Act that the Minister has to obtain the opinion of the National Nationality Council for his decisions on higher education in the field of ethnic education. We have also been able to bring it through the past few weeks by direct amendment of the law that every maintainer who maintains a higher education institution has to ask for the opinion of the National Nationality Council in order to decide on nationality training. Erika Kissné Köles, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Public Education, Culture and Church Affairs, called a subcommittee meeting next Tuesday, where we will discuss the direction in which to take the new opportunities and how to move forward. After all, this right of appeal must be extended to the decisions of the Senate and the Dean concerning ethnic education, and the most important decisions should be reviewed, where the national minority self-government concerned should not be granted an opinion, but a right of agreement should be granted to the national minority self-government concerned, or to the national minority council. So we really have a lot of work to do here, and obviously, in the area of higher education, there are many decades of serious omissions that cannot be fixed by a few years or even by direct financial support. I thank Mr László Szászfalvi for giving me a broader picture and for putting the situation of nationalities in a broader context. In particular, I thank you for your suggestion of how important it is that, at the same time as or after the establishment of the minority self-government system, the minority association system was able to survive. In fact, it is precisely through parliamentary representation that we have been able to achieve very serious, perhaps as soon as possible, the greatest progress towards the operational support of national minority associations, cultural programmes, native language student camps, because, as our President Ottó Heinek said at the time, the minority self-government system is a governing, organizing, controlling, representative system, but nationalities, ethnic culture and language cradle the ethnic associations, because they are the ones who pass on and pass on ethnic identity and culture. This is a very important task for us too. I would like to mention here, Mr President, and partly referring to the suggestion of President Brenner Koloman: indeed, in the context of the taking-over of local minority self-governments, it is very important that national minority self-governments, the institution-sustaining national minority self-governments, can also benefit from the Hungarian village programme. I would like to mention here that, at the end of last year, 500 million HUF and on 29 April this year, we received an additional HUF 500 million from the Hungarian village programme, specifically small settlements of ethnicity. From the first 500 million HUF, the Serbian school centre and the German house in Pécs will be completely renovated. The second 500 million, for which the government decision came out in April, will be awarded to the public education institutions of Kimle, Magyarpolány, Bakonynána and Szár, partly for gymnasium, kindergarten gymnasium and institution renovations. I would like to thank Mr Alpár Gyopáros, Commissioner of the Government, who was fully partner in this. [[13.00]] I also thank Mr László Varga for his support, and while he was speaking, I remembered and let me tell you a brief memory: it was in the early 2000s that Attila Mesterházy spoke on behalf of the government as State Secretary at the usual German cultural gala held on the first day of January, and I still remember a sentence when he said a amendment to the law, the national minority law, that it was a good compromise because no one agrees with him. This means that everyone had to lower their needs, and this is how the compromise came about. This has been ringing in my ears ever since, and I think that we have now proved with this law that a good compromise can be made, where everyone is satisfied with its results. I think that's what we're trying to do. I am pleased that this could have been the result of this bill by agreeing with it, supporting it, and calling it a good amendment, and not by making a compromise because everyone feels that they have lost something. It was very interesting and, by the way, it is entirely legitimate for Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea to say why it is not natural or why many things are not natural of what is now included in this amendment. Indeed, it should be natural, but unfortunately, today's world is not where it is always natural. And obviously, if something is not natural and there are no unwritten rules that everyone has to follow, then we have to make laws that make it natural by virtue of the law, or hold back from the opposite, someone who might not have these unwritten rules. And here I think it is very important to note that if only once and only one person is guilty or not given, God, he is committing a crime, unfortunately it will strike back at all nationalities and everyone. I think we can't afford to lose legal and material trust in indigenous nationalities in Hungary because of the small or greater problems of one person or one or two people that could result from such a situation. I would like to say one more thing: unfortunately, politics and local policy are also sometimes the cause of national conflicts and problems, and I am therefore very pleased that, after securing parliamentary representation, it has succeeded in achieving that almost all the amendments tabled by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary in the last seven years have been adopted by both the former Parliament and the present Parliament, essentially unanimously, without voting against, sometimes with one or two abstentions. I am asking you, and on the basis of today's general debate, I feel and hope that this will also happen in this case. Once again, I thank everyone for their comments, their comments, and, on the basis of all this, of course, I ask all the factions, the government and all the Members to support the adoption of an amendment to the law on the rights of nationalities, to participate in the possibility of adopting a nationality law unanimously once again. Thank you again for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2021-05-18-51	Thank you very much for President Ritter Imre's authorship, in which he answered all the speakers' questions and points in detail. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend individual laws in order to improve living conditions for single-parent families will follow up until closure. Government referral T/16203. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-18-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Our bill amending individual laws to improve the living conditions of single - parent families aims to improve the living conditions of some 300 thousand single - parent families and half a million children who often face other problems than those of their peers who grow up with two parents. We all know families where couples choose to continue their lives separately in the future. However, in such decisions, particular attention should be paid to the safety of children, especially to the parent who will raise the child. To ensure that a child grows up in a healthy environment, it is also necessary for a parent who does not live with a child in a household to contribute to the costs of raising a child. Dear House, Since 2010, we have been working to ensure that for Hungarian people, having children and raising children is not a financial risk, so that anyone who wants to start a family will find the best help for him. In fact, we are determined to make sure that those who have a child are better off financially than those who have not had children, since our children have our future. This is what family support, home-building benefits are about, as well as the credit moratorium for Hungarians during the coronal virus epidemic, as well as the measures taken in the context of the economic re-launch action plan. For us, all children and all families are equally important, equally valuable, which is why we have created one of the most complex, most comprehensive support systems in Europe and perhaps in the world. In this system, single - parent families find the best support for them, such as families with two children or large families. The bill before us builds a new element on this system. Several grants are already available to help single - parent families. Allow me to list some here without the need for completeness. Parents raising their children alone are entitled to a family allowance of a higher monthly amount than the basic amount of two - parent families. Regular child protection benefits are more favourable for single-parent families than for two-parent families, since the income ceiling under which the benefit can be granted is higher. They are entitled to a regular child protection discount and can use free or reduced institutional meals. This will greatly reduce the burden on families who are entitled to regular child protection benefits, and those who are entitled to regular child protection benefits may receive financial support twice a year. From 2017, children of single parents should be given priority when taking a crèche in crèche, mini-cradle, if the parent can prove that he is in employment or a working relationship. [[13.10]] The Single Parent's Club Foundation established a Single Parent's Centre in Budapest with HUF 500 million in state support, which started its operation on May 30, 2018 and supports single parent families with a wide range of assistance, whether it is advice or legal assistance. Erzsébet camps provide separate places for the children of single - parent families. In addition, single-parent families can use almost all the elements of the family protection action plan, so they can apply for a car-shopping discount for large-family families, a home-building discount for families, a CSOK loan, a village CSOK and a four-year-old mother's personal income tax exemption. They can also demand all the elements of the greatest home creation program of all time, reduced VAT, VAT refund, home renovation support and the associated preferential loan, as well as the possibility of creating a multigenerational home. And here it is important to inform you that as of 1 January 2022, we will provide additional important financial assistance to those who have lost one of their parents, as the amount of orphanage will rise to double, from 24 500 forints to 50,000 forints. Dear Parliament, With your support, this system can now expand further, because with the adoption of our proposal, we will be able to break down the limits so far on child support for single-parent families, which is the most difficult issue in the future. One of the most serious problems affecting single - parent families is that the party who raises the child often receives child support with no or only significant delays, so we sought ways to help parents who remain alone with their children to recover the missed alimony. The aim of the proposal is therefore to improve the living conditions of single-parent families by further targeted measures beyond the aid so far, both by improving the speed and effectiveness of procedures relating to the setting and recovery of child support and by making the legal rules on the advance payment of child support more favourable. This current bill is in the interest of children, and the state intends to facilitate access to child support for all children in the same way. Dear Parliament, Let us see exactly what the amendments in the bill mean. The enforcement of alimony decisions will be reinforced by the fact that, in the future, if the enforcement procedure is suspended for the reason that the debtor does not have the assets to be seized and therefore the claim is irrecoverable, enforcement may continue not only if it is presumed that the debtor has assets that can be seized, sold, but that the proposal allows the executioner to continue at the request of the applicant for enforcement even without the likelihood of the assets to be seized. The claimant's claim is also supported by the amendment whereby, in the event of a lack of collateral in the future implementation of the amounts managed by the financial institution, the applicant for enforcement does not have to request execution separately in each case in order to recover the child maintenance claim, as the executioner will be entitled to do so on his own initiative, even repeatedly and repeatedly. The amendment to the law on the protection of children and guardianship management removes the social entry income limit so far, and, instead of the current six-month period, a maximum of three months of irrecoverability will be a condition for the advance of child support by the State. From now on, no family can miss the support because of a few HUF above the income limit. Any single-parent family with irrecoverable child support will benefit from this option. Dear Parliament, In addition, the advance payment of child support will increase to 30 percent of the minimum wage, which is now HUF 50 220 from the current HUF 14 250; and it will only be possible to suspend the advance payment of child support or the advance payment of child support if the amount of performance or recovery exceeds 80 percent of the basic amount. By amending the Civil Procedure Act, the proposal excludes the possibility of further written litigation and significantly shortens the time limit for the submission of a written defence in order to speed up the lawsuit for the holding of a minor child. In addition, after the amendment, the party shall indicate its monthly net income, the data of the employer or other body or bodies providing income for him or her. This is to address a practical problem where, despite the capacity of the maintenance debtor, it fails to comply with its obligation. It further assists the claimant in the lawsuit that the proposal allows the court, in the context of ex officio proof, to seek out the income and property situation of the maintenance debtor, the employer or other persons or entities paying income to him. The proposal also provides that the court is to inform the party of the possibility of a direct legal appeal even if a person receiving a wage or other income is ordered to pay alimony by order of temporary measure. In practice, this will mean that the court, in its compulsory decision to pay alimony, directly invites the employer of the maintenance party receiving the wage to deduct the amount of the alimony laid down in the operative part of the decision and to pay it to the holder. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As with all our measures since 2010, this package of proposals serves the purpose of making Hungary a family-friendly country and of not having children in Hungary as it was before 2010. Please, if the child's life, interests and well-being is important to you, support our proposal; I can assure you that we always work for families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-18-53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-18-54	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, When it comes to children and family, I think it is best that we use our most important law, the Fundamental Law, the Hungarian Fundamental Law of the 16th century. I quote from his article at the beginning of my speech: All children have the right to the protection and care necessary for their proper physical, mental and moral development. Hungary protects the right to self-identify the birth of children, and ensures that the education based on the constitutional identity and Christian culture of our country is based on values. Parents have the right to choose their child's education. Parents are obliged to take care of their underage children. This obligation includes the education of their children. Mature children are obligated to care for their needy parents. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, The provisions of the Fundamental Law, cited above, reflect the position of the Fidesz-KDNP faction association on the fundamental protection of the family as a community of fate, that the parent should always, under all circumstances, take care of the minor children, while the adult child must take care of the parents in need. The family, as a basic unit of society, is based on mutual love, support and protection of the people in it, which the government has provided in the last 11 years new and new support on several points. You can see, we can see not only here, within the walls of Parliament, but also all Hungarian citizens, and I can even proudly say that they are now aware of Hungarian family policy in the world, and they are trying to take over certain elements of it, that the government will continue to expand the system of family support, the range of measures to protect families and family members. In this effort, the Government has been supported and supported by the Fidesz Group, and we will continue to support these objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us is also an amendment to the laws currently in force in the context of the aims of protecting families, along which many parents, unfortunately left alone in raising their children, can enforce their rights to child support more effectively. The amendments set out in the proposal will help the situation of single-parent families by speeding up the procedures for the establishment of child support and for the recovery of the child, as well as by increasing the effectiveness of the enforcement of the interests, while the legal conditions for the advance payment of child support may be more favourable in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal, which aims to help single - parent families by the following means. On the one hand, it aims to improve the effectiveness of civil procedure rules and child support lawsuits. In order to speed up the lawsuit for the holding of a minor child, the proposal excludes the possibility of further written litigation and significantly shortens the time limit for submitting a written defence. In the defence, the party shall indicate his/her monthly net income, the details of the other body or bodies which has paid his/her employer or his/her income. The proposal also seeks to address a practical problem where the maintenance debtor fails to comply with his maintenance obligation despite his capacity. The proposal now submitted allows the court, in the context of ex officio proof, to investigate the income and property situation of the maintenance debtor, to seek out the person or entity who pays his or her income. The proposal also provides that the court informs the party of the possibility of a direct judicial call, even if the person receiving the salary or other income is required to pay alimony by ordering an interim measure. Another element of the proposed legislation is the simplification of the rules on judicial enforcement. As in all things, we would like to reduce red tape here, as in the case of families and single-parent families, we would like to speed up and see less bureaucracy in the interests of children the procedures by which these affected families are able to obtain the means to raise the child as quickly and as easily as possible, in this case, to obtain funds. Where the enforcement procedure is suspended on the ground that the debtor does not have the assets to be seized and the claim is therefore irrecoverable, the enforcement may continue if it is likely that the debtor has assets that can be seized and sold. The proposal allows the executioner to continue at the request of the applicant for enforcement, even without the likelihood of seizure of the property. An official transfer order may be issued once by the executioner and may be re-submitted at the request of the enforcement seeker if the official transfer order has not, or has only partially, resulted in a result due to a lack of collateral. The proposal allows for the issuing of an official transfer order in the event of a lack of collateral to take place ex officio and, in the case of a child maintenance claim, even if the applicant for enforcement has not requested it, even in order to recover the claim. In particular, the amount received in the implementation procedures shall be met taking into account a specific exception for the implementation costs in relation to the case in question. As an exception in the case of child support claims, the proposal states that in these enforcement cases the implementation costs may be met once the enforcement claim has been fully met. It is a very important element that the proposal also includes important innovations to support, namely changes to the state advance on child support. One of the most important of these is the abolition of the social entry income limit, i.e. in the event of the adoption of this law, there will be no social entry income limit. Instead of the current six-month period, a maximum of three months of irrecoverability will be a condition for advance payment. There is no room for advance payment of child support or advance payment of child support if the amount of performance or recovery exceeds 80 per cent of the basic amount, which is currently more than 50 per cent. The entry income limit for entitlement will also be abolished as proposed, which we support. The advance payment for children increases to 30 percent of the minimum wage, i.e. at present 50 220 HUF from the current 14 250 HUF, which also includes a multiple increase. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the above, we can see that the government is committed to supporting the improvement of single-parent families' living conditions, with real measures both by speeding up litigation and enforcement procedures against non-paying persons, and by making the rules on the advance payment of child support by the state on a social basis more favourable. The Government's intention is supported by the Fidesz Group because we are convinced and see that, if the proposal is adopted, the quality of life of many vulnerable single-parent families in a difficult situation today improves. We know that we can use all the help we can get from those involved, so I ask my fellow Members, regardless of the faction, to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-18-55	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-56	Mr President, Dear House, I could also say to the government that they finally realized that this problem existed, and they finally realized that single - parent households or even their children alone have problems to solve. [[13.30]] So, basically, in the proposal before us, I am not only unable to find, but I do not want to find. It is a good idea that we could say a little self-confidently that they listen to our press conferences and read our press releases. That's very good, by the way. Article 3 With regard to the clause that, in the case of the acquisition of child support, no cost can be charged to that amount of alimony, so that the executor cannot deduct his own costs before the family obtains the alimony, I literally managed to do so three years ago at a prospectus. I'm very glad that if it's on tricky, twisted channels, it's made it to you. I have a very dear colleague, Dr. Zsuzsanna Beleznay, who deals specifically with similar issues, and one of the birth mothers of our one-parent program, who, if you will, is the deputy mayor of Terézváros and has worked out with the stakeholders the package that is otherwise visible and returning to the paperwork before us. That's why I'm just asking you why now and why that's all. These two questions lead me to the curve of these keynote speakers, as I am a little afraid that, as we approach the election campaign, the government is trying to favour a very wide and often troubled social group. But in 2018, we made these alarms in the same way, even in the form of immediate and written questions; you literally encountered the same problems in order and regularly. And now, just a year before the elections, they come up with these really good ideas, as if they were some kind of a novum, as if you hadn't known these existing problems for years, and they were trying to make it look like the problems of single-parent households, single-parent families and Hungarians who had been in a difficult situation for alimony had been solved. I could forgive that, too, if the leaders had not been surrounded by a production report on the success of the government, but had indeed talked about the programme for single-parent families. At the same time, why now? After your question, I must respond to what has been said, because we see that many questions are not settled yet, and although Mr Secretary of State is in order when replacing the Minister, he does not usually get involved in these debates, but he usually responds to them in a close word, I would try to put some imaginary courage into it in order to try to discuss them at a normal level of communication, in a discourse space, because we see that this proposal is pointing in the direction that those who find it difficult to obtain the amount of alimony will get this more easily. I ask the question, Mr. Secretary of State, here you are changing 50 percent to 80, a little cosmetic, otherwise in the right direction of the current situation - why don't we say that if someone can't obtain this alimony, the state will advance the total amount of this, give it to the family immediately, not after a month, not after three months of squirming? We are not waiting months for the irrecoverable demand to swell, but, let's say, after a month's delay, there should be an emergency procedure under which the family that has raised the child, if it doesn't have access to his own money, then the state will temporarily stand up. Obviously, he will not let this amount go to the person who has to pay the alimony and then be recovered by the state. We see that where the risk of abuse may arise in the case of such a simple system, we are typically talking about so few fixed amounts that there is no serious threat to the budget. So I'm going to get you guys to pick up a couple of good paragraphs here, maybe take them out with modifications, simplify the whole thing. The only solution in good faith would be that those who do not get their alimony within a closed deadline would be financed by Hungary without any pilfering or clowning with limits, and then collected from those who have to pay it. I am even involved, Mr State Secretary, in setting a reasonable ceiling, although I do not know about the Hungarian judicial practice, let's say, the maintenance fees of 800 thousand HUF have been awarded. If you do, enlighten me. But if you want to put a reasonable top hat, however, in any case, a Hungarian child and a family raising a Hungarian child should not be in a position not to receive the rightful alimony. So my first suggestion is to advance the entire amount. The second obviously refers to judicial practice. It is an independent branch of power, I do not want to interfere, of course, with its operation, but what I see is that the judicial practice has established a system of summation that is subjective, but it may be said that relatively low maintenance rates are relatively low, the amount on which a absent parent or non-child parent is obliged to pay after the separation of the family. In many families, the system has been established in a way that overrides judicial practice, so that the outgoing father typically pays for everyday needs, costs, their share, and that is above the amount established by the judicial practice. But why can't we create a legislative climate that allows the courts to think a little more vividly on this issue? So my second proposal is clearly to make sure that the fees set are realistic, and in the case of one alimony, it is not possible to set 10 thousand forints for three children. I think that's a perfectly legitimate and realistic expectation. At the same time, in the case of customers coming to us and coming to us, we see that we are often talking about ridiculously low charges compared to existing payments, and even the recovery of them is failing. The second proposal is, therefore, to create a climate for sensible, realistic and lifelike maintenance fees. We also see that the limit of irrecoverability is reduced from six to three months. I've already made my point on this. I think a month is more than enough for a family of deprivations, and they need to be loaned in advance, and then they can be cashed in on payment. But there's one more problem, Mr. Secretary. In other words, these claims can typically not be recovered over a certain number of months. So my third suggestion is to push this whole story up to the general limitation period in the case of alimony or specifically alimony claims, so that we can make sure that, if appropriate, it is possible to collect unpaid fees for several years, so that no one can say that, well, brother, I haven't paid for six months, that I'm not fulfilling my obligation to expire for 7-8 months, because there is a climate and an environment where I can't be obliged to do so. Thirdly, therefore, I consider it very important that these claims be recovered for five years. The whole story can even be praised so far. Article 3 I would like to give you a special compliment. It would be weird if you didn't, because I'm seeing my own expression from years ago, almost literally, in this. Of course, let us know that this is the government's own intellectual product, let us not discuss it, but they are the ones submitting the proposal. But we also see that, in addition to being able to praise further paragraphs, less than 10 percent of the problems of single parent households or single parent parents are not included in this proposal. So if we were to argue about this in itself, this could create such a moment of grace, where everyone agrees, and everyone loves Hungarian children, especially I, and I do not dispute that everyone in this House is so, but the fact is that you have sided with the production report, which I have to argue with. The government mentions the amount of GDP spent on family support in order; I would also mention it, of course, because it is a very impulsive amount, knowing that the government is counting items that are not relevant to supporting families or having children. I will give you an example, and then my fellow Member Nacsa will feel what I am talking about. Family allowances include the early retirement amount of the 40. I get it, you can explain to me that a lady can retire, and say she can do more grandkids. But they can't show me, or if they can, I'm going to follow them, they can't show me another European budget, according to which any government across Europe would count pension-related expenditures. It cannot show this because the governments of Europe approach this issue professionally, not in terms of political lozunges, and they count what is a net family support amount. Women count 40, but for example, there is no item that you have promised. Prime Minister has promised precisely, and his own government has failed to carry out his will, in fact, in a way that has drilled the idea. Prime Minister announced that mothers with three children no longer have to pay personal income tax in the future. They counted it fast, they found out it was a hundred billion-dollar scale, let's just say the four-year-olds don't have to pay. This was finally submitted, because here they saw that there were only one or two ten thousand Hungarian women, who, unfortunately, half of them are not able to remain in employment. (Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat) Replaced by Attila Gelencsér.) By the way, from a different perspective, fortunately, because they are given the opportunity to raise children. But still, these items are painfully lacking. What is a record in Hungary is that they could not achieve a noticeable demographic shift in the light of the undoubtedly many forints spent on family support. [[13.40]] And the real disaster that I see in the government panels, that they write out that in 25 years you did not think that there was such a willingness to have children in Hungary, is just forgetting a few items from the system: they forget that only last year we lost the number of people in Nagykanizsa; they forget the forced emigration of this movement to hundreds of thousands since 2010, so they do not include young people who no longer undertake these children here. It is also very important to say that it is forgotten in December when Minister Novák said this, unfortunately our number of souls was running out of Hungarians corresponding to the population of Siklós, that here in the post-socialist region all countries in the Eastern Central European region, the fertility rate fell again to around 1,25-1.5-1.6 due to the accompanying phenomenon of the process called replacement by the profession. So there is nothing outstanding about the countries of the region in the Hungarian data, the same thing happened in Hungary as in any of the neighbouring countries. I do not want to embarrass Mr. Secretary of State now, but only two or three countries in the region could be brought here immediately, where there is a higher fertility rate than in Hungary; not unfortunately, because I am rooting for achieving the level of reproduction in all European countries, without immigration, but at the same time I see that very few countries in Europe are able to present these positive processes at all. Mr. Secretary. If the current number of live births remains, what do you think Hungary will have at the height of 2050-60? Because this was measured by the HCSO, and it has been concluded that Hungary will be a country of 6.5 million, Mr Secretary of State. So when you stand up or the Minister stands up and says that the Hungarian birth number is on an intergalactic record, and the negative trend has turned here, you should at least turn to my fellow Member, Nacsa, who has the correctness to say that it is not a trend turn. In the last debate, we agreed that there were positive signs, and I admit that, but I do not think that these signs are a reason for confidence, and that is not a trend turn. Mr. Secretary. In the case of and in relation to a future country of 6.5 million, you are making a success propaganda, I think that is unworthy. We need an honest face. In conclusion, the proposal is likely to be supported unless some kind of time bomb or mine is hidden in it on the way. I will get you to amend and further improve the proposal, so the amount of unpaid maintenance payments should be paid 100% and essentially by Hungary, the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian taxpayers, without any conditions, and then collected by the state from those who do not want to pay these claims. Secondly, let us establish a legislative climate so that normal, life-like amounts can be set as alimony, so that for three children it is not HUF 10,000. Thirdly, we extend the very narrow fold-in limit, and five years back, there should be an outstanding alimony payment. Let us not put families raising children in an unworthy position by having to play chess between months, that six months of age are still in a position to fold, which is long overdue, no longer. Fourthly, a great deal of measures concerning Hungarian families and making the family register impossible must be considered, with a full concept of reducing the rate of VAT of 27 per cent in the case of child-rearing articles, and thinking about how the housing crisis can be resolved; not with a ministerial salary and ten million in size, but in normal circumstances, so that support can be provided in addition to the preferential loan. Obviously, I think we also need a rent-apartment construction programme, and you are arguing with that, but we will continue this debate in a slightly bigger crossfire next week. We see that as long as the 33 percent and 50 percent bans of these executives can be made among the weakest earners, these executive teams often take out multiples of the amount saved here from the other pocket. So I'm going to get you guys to improve this package, because there's plenty of room for improvement from here. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-18-57	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-18-58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, I agree with the speakers before me that a very important topic, a very important bill, is being discussed by the Parliament in these hours. I think that at the beginning of the debate on such a bill, we should thank the parents that they have endured in the last year in teaching at home, staying at home, raising their children, and this is particularly true of parents in single-parent families, because there was an even greater burden, there was no division of the burden caused by the restrictive measures imposed in order to protect the health of Hungarian people and, for example, community life, professional circles, sporting events or even the lack of such a school or its transition to digital life. So we'd like to thank the parents from here. In that this is an important debate, my fellow Member Z. Carpathian said that this is an important topic, an important debate, I agree. It is a pity that several left-wing factions have decided not to take part in this debate, and the question of single-parent families is not important enough for them, whether it is the Dialogue, the Gyurcsány Party or the LMP, that this issue is not important enough to take the trouble and to comment on this debate. I think this is a very forward-looking and important bill, it contains decisions, directions that will help single - parent families. We often argue with my fellow Member, Z. Carpath, that he calls the facts on the production report. We have listed facts from the last 10 to 11 years of the Hungarian family support system, and he has always called it a small, lenient production report, although, my fellow Member, these are the facts that were listed by the Secretary of State and my fellow Member. I would very much like to point out that we cannot go without saying that there are positive trends and positive trends in Hungarian society. For example, if we are talking about single-parent families, it should be said that the number of divorces in Hungary has been at an unprecedented depth for 60 years, the number of divorces has decreased significantly compared to 2010. So, in view of our hope and trend, we hope that this will continue, that every year, fewer and fewer families occur, that for some reason parents will have to separate and that every year fewer families will be involved in the single - parent family. I think that this is joyful, and it is also glad that the number of marriages has doubled compared to 2010. We have often argued on demographic and demographic issues, and I think we will also have Z. Carpathian with my fellow Member Daniel. I have never used the word "turning trend" but in Hungary, the desire to have children increased by 24 percent since 2010! We are talking about very low data at the 2010 childbearing fertility rate, but we have to say that this is Europe's best. No one has said that this goal or that it is perfect, that we would be satisfied with it, and I think that it can quote such things from pro-government politicians, we have all said that we have to go on this path, we have to increase the desire to have children, we have to help parents even more in order for the desired children to be born. But the fact that we have increased the desire to have children by 24 percent since 2010 and are leading the way in the European Union, I think it shows a positive trend, encouraging signs, and it is important that if there are results and human decisions behind the encouraging signs, we should continue to help and help the decisions that the Hungarian families have made regarding their childbearing. My fellow Member has also brought here the question of 40, which he has not voted for, but he has brought here the family support budget, which I wanted to talk about, because tomorrow the debate on the 2022 budget begins, which now has three times the amount of family support compared to the last left-wing budget in 2010: HUF 960 billion was the amount that the last socialist-left government wanted to spend on families, but in next year's budget, if Parliament accepts this form, then three times that amount will be available for family support. [[13.50]] My fellow Member, the debate on who counts what into the system of family support can be held. I propose to my fellow Member, who called all European Parliaments and European governments so professional and said only to the Hungarian Government that they decide on a political basis what is in the family support system, and the other European governments are incredibly professional to look at it, for example, in England, but in many Western European countries, such as Belgium or the Netherlands, they include in the system of family support the various paid vacation days that are used as paternity leave. I think it is merely a labour law obligation, of course, to help families, but it is still included in the system of family support, so, together with such calculations, we can say that Hungary spends the most on the support of families in proportion to its GDP. We believe that Hungarian families should be protected, supported, helped, and that has been the case since the family-friendly turn of 2010. We can remember what happened earlier, because the family support measures that seemed natural today were far from possible in Gyurcsány-éra, we know that the family support system has been dismantled, the housing support system has been abolished, the preferential housing loans, the family tax reduction, the duration of the child has been reduced, and otherwise European champions have been paid with Hungarian families. We can say that, on a large average, essentially during the Gyurcsány government, it meant having a child with poverty. This has been completely reversed since 2010, as we believe that the support and opportunities of Hungarian families must be constantly expanded. Every year there is an enlargement, a step that you may call insufficient, quoting your favourite word: you can criticize these decisions in different ways. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is it spreading? I'm not asking for a felony.]] However, we have consistently been expanding, broadening the family support system since 2010, and, moreover, most of these measures and most of the support options are also available for single-parent families. For example, [[György Szi-lágyi: For example, raising the family allowance!]] there are numerous measures that can affect all Hungarian families. You always talk about family allowances and family benefits, but 98 percent of eligible families use the institution of family tax relief, honourable Member. Who can say a broader family support measure? I think this is the right direction. We can remember that in the time of the socialists, young people were not helped to start a family or start a single life, the only message to them was that it was possible to leave. This was the socialist left-wing support for the start of life. The gas prices were tripled, the food VAT was doubled, and the Hungarian families had to pay the highest prices for gas and electricity prices in Europe due to a 15-fold increase in gas and electricity prices. Unemployment was high, many people couldn't support their own family, and while we were on the subject, many people at the time, because they put it on the street and brought 12 percent unemployment together by the socialists, couldn't pay the alimony either. We know precisely that thanks to the decisions of the government, single-parent families benefit from the admission to the daycare center, receive a higher family allowance, are provided with free or reduced institutional meals, and the government also provides separate places for them in the Erzsébet camps. I would like to note here that the government's recently announced decision, that this summer, even after the third wave of the epidemic will still be possible for Erzsébet camps, will be an opportunity for thousands of Hungarian children and young people to spend quality time relaxing in a beautiful environment. I think they need it, because of the lack of digital education, the lack of community, a very important step in re-launching is that the Elizabeth camps will be waiting for children again, where children of single - parent families will otherwise be given a special place. My fellow Members have already talked about the current bill, and the Secretary of State has also described in detail the measures I consider to be absolutely eligible. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpathian, said that Jobbik may have had suggestions about single - parent families before. I don't know, Congressman, you've been to the Single Parent Centre a few years ago, and you've seen how fantastic the work you do there, how touching and powerful the work you do for single parent families in the center, and the work you do every day, the work you do, how many families you can help, by the way. The current bill, for example, was made on the basis of experience gained at the Single Parent Centre, as it is very important that legislation be adapted to real needs, realities, life-likeness, and that is why we have been able to gather from the ground the experiences on the basis of which this bill was drafted, and which is intended to help single parent families. Implementation rules for child support, simplification of court rules, speed of administration are certainly eligible, I think. Any reduction in time limits and speeding up administration that will allow decisions to be made sooner and not for many months or years to keep parents and, above all, children in uncertainty, should be eligible. It should also be supported that the various advanceable alimony amounts will be increased, and that we will act more rigorously against those who do not pay maintenance fees, who refuse to contribute to the costs of raising children together. I can tell you, Honourable Parliament, that this bill is also another step in the direction that family-friendly Hungary can be completed, another step, a number of steps to protect, support and help families. I think that we have a common national cause to protect, strengthen, support and help Hungarian families. The foundation of society is the family, the family is considered a value-bearing, value-creating community. I therefore ask my fellow Members to support this bill, which will help hundreds of thousands of single-parent families, parents and children raised in these families. For us, the child comes first. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-18-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-18-60	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. I am going to tell you a shocking fact: the epidemic has been going on for over a year, but the Fidesz government has not yet given any substantial support to families with children, or even single-parent families. And what you're proposing now is simply amazing. It is okay to say that for single-parent families, the amount of orphanage should be 50,000 forints, but it is only proposed to be introduced from 2022. The same proposal also raises the advance alimony to approximately HUF 50,000, but also next year. Why? Do you think families are okay now without any help? Or do they give so much money to Viktor Orbán, the cashier, to Lőrinca, that he did not stay for the Hungarian families this year? Do you know what the Hungarian families to whom you will only want to help next year are experiencing? And I didn't tell you that in the last 11 years, you haven't increased your family allowance by a penny or the amount of any other family benefits, just as your child's single parent hasn't received any higher family allowances. Congressman Nacsa told me about a fantastic woman named Anna the Great, and by the way, I know her personally, a former government spokesperson. Indeed, as president of the Single Parent Club, he spoke about the fact that there are 90,000 children in Hungary who would receive a monthly alimony, but they do not receive it despite the fact that the separated parent lives and is also responsible for where. According to KSH data, only 8,000 children currently receive an advance child support fee, the average amount of which is approximately HUF 9 thousand per month. I must say that there have been countless opposition proposals to support single parents in particular. Nevertheless, Viktor Orbán and the government only met the window organizations they created. These organisations provide lifestyle advice, but they do not solve the basic problems of the families concerned, they do not solve financial difficulties, unemployment, and babysitting. [[14.00]] There is no future for sometimes awarded donations. This is not a solution, and it is not a social policy. For example, it would help a lot more if the benefits for large families were given to single people, or if daycare and kindergarten opening hours were more flexible. However, the government has not only ignored this, but has practically ignored the existence of single - parent families. It's interesting that the government's family policy was just introduced to single - parent families before the election. After 12 years of inaction, what happened? You want the vote? (Dr. László Varga takes his place) in the notary seat. ) And don't come with the family tax discount now, because you know very well that single parents are more difficult to use in their full. The MSZP wants to double the family allowance for a reason, because the freeze on family allowances is a huge cut for single - parent families. According to the KSH survey, the poverty of single - parent families is much higher than that of two - parent families. In fact, the difference has increased significantly in recent years. According to recent data, poverty rates have increased by more than 5 percent in single children during the past year during the pandemic. Compared to what's in the proposal, there's not enough. The contents of this bill are not grateful to its title, i.e. it does not improve the living conditions of single - parent families at all. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Raising the amount of orphanage to HUF 50,000 and increasing the amount of prepaid alimony is important, but it is not enough at all. And I cannot say enough that Hungarian families, including single - parent families, need this more now, and not in a six-month period. The MSZP therefore proposes that the proposal should enter into force as from 1 July 2021. The MSZP also pays particular attention to the fact that even those who need it most will receive the most assistance in raising children after the change of government that has led to your fall. That is why we are initiating a doubling of the family allowance and maintaining its integrity while maintaining the tax relief system for children. However, since not all families with children of low incomes are able to make full use of the family tax allowance, we also recommend introducing an additional family allowance that will allow all affected families entitled to tax relief to obtain child-to-child support on the basis of the tax benefit. In addition, we recommend keeping existing other discounts. This is the benefit of mothers with four or more children, or the benefit of those under 25 years of age and of the first married. The MSZP programme also aims to increase the weight of other family support. For example, we want to increase the amount of the child by guaranteeing the value of the annual indexed amount by law. The MSZP supports the imposition and financial incentive of the mandatory father months of the child to help women return to work after giving birth, as well as the greater involvement of men in the household. In addition, we propose setting up significantly more free crèches than we currently do. These are the measures that will really help the Hungarian families widely, not a few thousand forints a few months before the elections. Finally, I repeat: the proposal is supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party, but we also take the initiative not to wait until next year, but to give it to the families concerned from July. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-18-61	Thank you. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group... [[For signal:]] Who's not in the room. Ladies and gentlemen, Then we are now at the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I therefore give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-05-18-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/16203. According to the title of bill No.1, we are reading a proposal to support single - parent families, which makes it easier for single - parent families to eliminate certain disadvantages associated with this situation. Indeed, I agree with my colleague Zita Gurmai that this proposal is not a complex proposal. Perhaps we could have thought from its title until we read that single - parent families have many other problems that should be justifiedly improved, a government task, and I hoped that we would also read about it in this proposal. But let us not be dissatisfied, any proposal that improves, for example, the life situation of single - parent families must be supported. If a layman reads this proposal, he may be surprised to know why such a topic should be mentioned in a bill so that the costs of an enforcer can or should be incurred after satisfying the enforcement request. Or why is it necessary to state in such a bill why the debtor's financial service providers are only contacted once for recovery in a time period during which enforcement is subject to limitation? For a layman, there are a lot of elements in this proposal that raise questions as to why the rules on implementation are such. Who's for whom? For the executor, there are people who don't pay, and those who suffer, or, for example, when you have to collect a child support fee, why has it always been important for the executor to collect the costs and not for the child to whom they are collected? I must say, indeed, that there are many errors in the spirit of the whole enforcement law, and they give rise to enormous abuse, and, of course, I cannot imagine at all that the legislator would have wished for it. The behaviour and attitudes of life and the various actors have simply shaped these sometimes abnormal situations. Of course, why not welcome the fact that if you manage to recover property or funds from the executioner in the case of the recovery of a child support fee, that amount should be limited primarily to the payment of child support and not to the costs of the executioner. Then, when the proposal is that the procedure is suspended because the enforcer finds that there is no recoverable property, the existing bank account has not been recovered, and then I have nothing more to do. Do you think it's normal for an executive law to have such provisions? That it is not in the enforcement law, that, at certain times, within the limitation period, it is necessary to re-try the detection of property and the search for funds? Isn't that normal? I raise these questions because, if we are talking about these issues and the amendment of the laws has come before the House effectively, it is also worth talking about their general problem. Of course, I am very pleased that this proposal, in the advance of the state's child support, is finally putting in place improvements adapted to today's living conditions and values, the limits that have made very little of the number of parents who could use it will be eliminated. However, I would have liked it to have been included in the proposal that, when it concerns the payment of up to 30 per cent of the minimum wage at any time, the advance payment by the State would have been made in terms of gross or net. Why is that an important question? First, because everyone gets the net wage, second, because in this case 30% of the minimum gross wage of 167 400 is 50 220 HUF. I think that everyone is saying that if the parent can't get the child support fee from the parent living separately, then this rate really weighs heavily on a family's budget. But if I start from the net of 167 400 forints, it is very small, because it is just over 32 thousand forints. I propose to the honourable author that he make this point clear, or at least clarify, in the proposal, because it could be a misunderstanding, and I think that no one would like to bring this issue back to Parliament in September for legislative amendment. [[14.10]] You see, my fellow Members, there is a difference between the two amounts, between the 30 percent and 18 thousand forints. I welcome the proposal that, after three months of irrecoverability, it is possible to at least claim the advance by the State instead of the previous six months, but I would like to outline very briefly to you that if a separate parent starts a maintenance suit today, even with the current rules and the amendment of civil procedure, it will take at least half a year to prove that he is not being paid by the parent living separately. I say the minimum six months because there can only be more than that in addition to this proposal, and you may think, ladies and gentlemen, that with a single parent even a child, and more, without the financial support of a separate parent, there can be terrible deprivations. But I would like to stress that at least this amendment has already arrived, and this is also improving the situation that is currently under way. I would like to ask you a few questions to share with you what goes beyond the proposal. A single parent, a single child, a social problem, a legislative imperative, and, whether you like it or not, a very large number of social situations. What the legislator, of course, is always trying to find a way to reduce disadvantages, but let's face it, without society's discretion, we cannot solve this issue with the highest level, the fairest, the most socially sensitive laws. Family formation awareness is extremely low in Hungary. There is an extremely low level of family planning in our country, emotional and conscious levels of responsibility. Of course, by providing very rightly different financial support for the birth of children, governments are forgetting the only thing that with these measures we are amazingly increasing the chances of parents knowingly taking on children. It is very difficult, in addition to the financial opportunities available, to define for everyone, by self - control, that he will be able to raise any number of children. The point is not that children are also conceived, because they are not born without it, but the more serious question is that, until they grow up, the mother and father know that they are able to stay together in order to raise great children together, and they will be a creative, growing part of society, or, as an unthought-out community, often burdening the state with the support of children. It is not a question of not doing so by a government, leading a country, to not provide support in this, but I think that it must also be an important element of how much awareness has been in society. And I would like to stress that if anything, to me, is very painful, the number of Hungarians who fall from year to year with a small town of people, which is terrible. With this trend, I do not know how many Hungarians will be in the country in the time or adult time of our grandchildren. But to predict our society as much as possible to take on many children so that each of them has an adequate level of responsibility, and not a momentary decision-making situation determines how many children are born in a society or in a family, and this must be prepared consciously, in mind and in mind. When my colleague, Zita Gurmai, told me how many thousands of single parents will receive only the state's advance; that is probably because they simply cannot meet the conditions. But I would be happy if this number were zero, because that would mean that a separate parent naturally fulfills his responsibility to support children. The point is not how many people use alimony as an advance by the state, but what is important is what we do to ensure that as few parents as possible are left alone in the situation of turning to the state instead of a separate parent. So I ask the government with great respect, because it has a strong legitimacy, it has created many social institutions or institutions in the social field that may be capable of strengthening this kind of social awareness. And when I read about this single parent organization, the single parent support organisation, and we heard how many hundreds of millions of forints the government has allocated to it, I think the next thing we know, is that they're putting together a program to suggest to society that you can make the right decisions to avoid being a single parent family factor as an adult. We never hear of that. It is natural today that even those who marry and even speak fidelity to the death before a church, unfortunately in society the demand for change is strong enough, and an attractive alternative can cause families to break up with a multitude of people. So, I would like to say to my fellow Members that, unfortunately, society has to admit that it is not conscious enough either in starting a family or in having children, and it does not sufficiently assess its responsibility to raise the children it has undertaken together in a community. When I read in this proposal about a change in the rules of civil procedure, I remembered the time when there was a debate on the new civil order. I have not been in the House, but I have prepared a lot of material, and it has also been interpreted by Members in Parliament, when I have drawn the attention of the proposers at the time to the fact that in the new civil order the 45-day anti-application period will cause a very serious problem for a particular type of case, and I have already said that this is a matter of child support. After all, if there is so much time to submit an defence and the judges have spent the 30 days they have to issue the submissions they have received, assuming they did not have to issue a deficiency, a temporary measure will not take place within six to seven months, while the separate parent has not paid a child's premium; and what if it continues to take several months to finalize a temporary measure at all? I am pleased that this proposal contains at least 45 days of 30 days in this respect, but I would still consider it, because this is a legal right-dogmatical opportunity to have 15 days for such applications, in the case of a request for child support alone and for interim measures. The law on legislation does not at all prohibit a time limit set in a certain legal institution for a type of case, in particular, so that marriage proceedings and child support lawsuits are regulated separately as special procedures, the only question being 15 days. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-18-63	Thank you. Our next speaker is Mr Tamás Sneider, an independent Member. Here you go. [[14.20]]
u2021-05-18-64	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I am actually trying to be brief, because there has been a lot of talk about the bill before us, and it is quite clear that it is a Eligible bill. In any case, the text of the bill, the possibilities, the family support and, more specifically, the advance payment of child support and the changes in the rules on recovery will change positively. Therefore, I would like to highlight only one or two things from him, and, of course, I would like to make a few more criticisms, which I think it would be good to change, although I am not sure that he is specifically linked to this law, but is not far from it at all. [[Continue in 198/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary One of the very important things, in addition to the many, many good regulatory changes, is that if someone in one family did not earn 56,000 forints a month, which is double the old-age pension minimum, so let's say, for a single-parent family, a total of 112 thousand forints, then it has already fallen out of the possibility to advance this support to the state. It doesn't have to be said that this has been a truly outrageous thing. In this regard, I have spoken more than once in the past, so I am very pleased that this will be completely abolished, so that every parent who raises a child, no matter how many children and in what financial situation he is in, has the opportunity to make an advance. Obviously, I have a lot of similar and good things to say. I would also like to point out that if, so far, if a 50% percentage was recovered or if one of the parents who was in charge of raising the child paid so much, it was possible to stop the advance again, the possibility of an advance has ceased again, which is now going up to 80 percent. I think this is also very important. Not to mention that from an average amount of 14 thousand HUF up to 52,000 HUF, the amount of the advance alimony may be increased. So it's all really very positive, and you can really be happy about that. Which, in my opinion, is still part of the support of single-parent families, and which I think has escaped the attention of the Secretary of State, or has not been sufficiently addressed, even though I have obviously said several times myself that in many cases there is a question of society's thinking that a child, if parents are divorced, is raised by the wife, by the woman. The fact is that this is true in the vast majority of cases, 85 percent, but not in the case of 15 percent, and men still raise children after separation, and they are disadvantaged on many occasions and their children are disadvantaged. Now, not in this regard, I have to add, specifically, about this bill, or about the alimony, although I think that there is a different attitude there, if it is men, but one of the very important things that I think it would be very simple to change is that there are many, tens of thousands of children in Hungary who live in a single-parent family, well, it is a question of student loans, which can only be allowed in a completely unacceptable way, and only if a woman uses this student loan and she gives birth and raises children. Half of a child can be released, and in three children, I think the total amount can be released. It's right here in front of me, so feel free to look at the advertising, writing of the Student Loan Center in large letters, and we can see in large letters what the text of the law suggests is that only female clients can live on the release of student loans. In Hungarian, the single-parent families where the man took on student loans and raised the children, and affects thousands, many tens of thousands of people altogether, so there are not few people involved, he is not entitled to release the student loan. His wife, who was divorced from him, may be entitled even when she may not be raising her child, or what is different, and even worse, though, unfortunately, during the Covid epidemic, we saw it in the news when tragedy occurs, and one parent dies, in the case the lady was not such, we saw it, unfortunately, and the man is left to raise his children. Most likely, even under the law of the big numbers, even in the recent Covid epidemic, a man is not in a position to have his student loan, but he will still have to pay, while the orphanage will rise, and the rest, but he will not be allowed to do so by the current legislation. So what I am asking of the government, while we are talking about this, is the single-parent families, and I am asking the secretary of state, because this does not have a big budgetary impact, but a huge injustice and once again, in the light of the Covid epidemic, it could remedy even more, so that they can think about allowing men to release student loans if they raise children, and I do not want to continue to stick to it, because this can be achieved by a relatively simple amendment of the law and, moreover, by a very low budget line, must be a very low resource. Of course, there is still much to talk about about single - parent families, but I really do not want to put it on long notice, but they are also disadvantaged in many other areas. Consider how much more difficult it is for a single - parent family to borrow money than for two parents and the income of the two parents to be taken into account by banks and financial institutions. I think that it would also be possible to create a more favourable situation here, in the case of borrowing, to take into account a slightly higher percentage of the income of single - parent families and to get a slightly higher credit for these parents, of course, within the limits of reasonableness, as if even a parent were raising children. And one last, but it's really just a story that doesn't require government action, but let's just think that men who are in the order of tens of thousands between 10 and 20 thousand, as far as we know, who are raising their children, and many of them are only children of 2-3 years old, especially if tragedy has happened, or even younger, babies, go with their children, say, a mall or any other place where the child should be cleaned. But where can I change it? There are special rooms for this in good places, where only children can be brought in, but in many places it can be arranged in the women's bathroom. It seems small, but it may also be possible to draw attention to this, that this should be changed, to allow all such, especially in more important premises and public institutions to be able to provide small children in separate rooms, because then there is no case that this cannot happen, because a male parent cannot, of course, enter that toilet and can't do that. That was just a small thing, but I wanted to draw attention to that in any case. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2021-05-18-65	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the national secretary of state how he wishes to react. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-66	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate, their contributions, their work, and most of them for having good intentions for the proposal. I'm trying to respond to important points. [[14.30]] First of all, I would like to remind everyone that, while we are at the end of the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic or at the end of the crisis, we are still in an epidemic, and this epidemic has caused a crisis, not only in the health sector but also in the economy. I'll deal with that in another part of my answer. We believe that families should also be supported in this crisis, so any comments or comments that were about not being supported by the government in the case of a coronal virus epidemic should be rejected. I will give you just a few examples: just in the midst of the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, we started to rebuild the 13th month pension, we adopted a proposal that would increase the amount of the family, and the Parliament accepted our proposal to exempt income for young people under the age of 25. So I think saying to us that we have not supported families in this crisis is strange, to put it mildly. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has repeatedly said that the government is making a success propaganda when we talk about family support. Congressman Nacsa has already responded to this. I would also like to say that this is not a success propaganda; we are simply telling you the measures, I could say, the facts that we have done in this area since 2010. Here, I would also like to refer to the comments made by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who said something in one half of her sentence or in one half of her speech that conscious parenthood is not supported by the family support system or at least by the support of families. And in the other part, he was sorry, and I agree with that, because of the decline in population. The fact is, Congresswoman, that in 2010, when we decided on a family-friendly turnaround in Hungary, we chose the solution that we were trying to solve with all our options to support families. Thus, the government's aim is to make it easier to start a family in Hungary, to have children and to raise children, and indeed, as has been said, since the 2010 budget, we have increased the budget by two and a halffold. And if we accept the 2022 budget after tomorrow's debate, we can say that it will triple. I would just like to mention a few things, once again, not as a success propaganda, but as a list of facts: between 2010 and 2022, the amount of support that can be used for infant care has doubled. As I said earlier, from 1 July 2021, the infant care fee will increase from 70 percent of the previous gross salary to 100 percent of the gross salary. The maximum amount of ged has doubled since 2010. We have introduced the family tax relief, which, as Congressman Nacsa said, 98 percent of potential claimants can use. We have launched Hungary's largest home creation programme. In 2015, we introduced the family home creation discount, the baby shower support, the car shopping discount for large families, and we increased the number of nursery seats to more than 51,000 by 1.5 times compared to 2010. Between 2010 and 2020, the number of couples marrying increased by 89 percent, and I could still list the measures we have supported families since 2010. We have chosen this solution, and we believe that Hungarian families can count on us in the coming period. In the two-thirds part of her speech, I think, because of the pre-election, because of what else, because it is only May 2021, Mrs Zita Gurmai has been campaigning and listed here the proposals that the MSZP would introduce. If you were here, Congresswoman, I'd remind you in person. Since he's not here, but I'm sure you're interested in the course of the debate, and he's following through some media, I'm forced to remind you through it. It is nice for someone to list various, more beautiful and better proposals here in Parliament than in the next period, but the fact is that I have to disappoint Mrs Zita Gurmai: the Hungarian people and the Hungarian families remember exactly what measures were taken to help the families in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era before 2010 when they were in the government. I'll just list some of them. In that crisis, the 13th month pension was taken, then the home-building allowance was abolished, and the families were chased into foreign currency loans, from which we had to rescue the Hungarian families. During that period, the socialists, Zitta Gurmai, reduced the duration of the child, eliminated the family tax relief for single and two children, and, by the way, stopped regular child protection support during that period. So I think that what the Congresswoman has listed here is not very credible, as the goal to be achieved in the future. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát also spoke in his speech as if we had not dealt with single - parent families. Zita Gurmai also said that we finally remembered or thought about single - parent families, and he also said that there is such a comment in any such parliamentary debate, which literally said that this proposal does not help single - parent families at all. I will now divide this into two: the government has not just started to deal with single - parent families, but we have also paid attention to single - parent families in the context of the family-friendly turn of 2010 and we have given them extra support. I have just a few of these, and here in the expo, I had the opportunity to say this in detail: there are extra days of care for the child, there are extra protection for single parents in labour law, notice protection and atypical employment. Regular child protection benefits may be granted under more favourable conditions. From 2017 on, children of single parents will be preferred for taking a nursery in crèche. The Single Parent Centre was established in 2018, which really helps single parent families. From 2014, family benefits can be applied in addition to personal income tax from pension and health insurance and social security contributions, which are of particular importance for single-parent families. We introduced the family home creation discount in 2015, but as I said in the Expo, the elements of the family protection action plan and the home creation program can also be used by single-parent families. To say that we have now come to mind with this proposal, or we have just thought about single - parent families, let me put it this way, I look at Mr President very carefully: it seems like a lark to be subtle now. And that this proposal would not help single - parent families? I will try to sum it up briefly, in case Congresswoman Zita Gurmai is watching. With the planned amendments, this bill, which is now on the table, is now being discussed by Parliament, will increase the effectiveness of the child support lawsuits, and will also make the recovery of child support fees faster and more effective. In addition, legislation on the advance payment of child support will become more favourable. In fact, this proposal has been said several times, many of us have put the interests of children first. Access to child support is intended to be facilitated by the State in the same way for all children, which is what part of the proposal is about. The amendment abolishes the income limit currently required as a condition of entitlement for the advance payment of child support, so in the future benefits can be claimed regardless of the per capita income, as Mr President said. Any single-parent family who has an irrecoverable alimony claim will therefore benefit from this option. The proposal also promotes early access to child support by demonstrating three months' irrecoverability instead of the six months currently required. And the advance child support ceiling will rise to 30 percent of the minimum wage. [[14.40]] This is currently HUF 50 200, but since we link it to the minimum wage, so every year when the parties agree on the minimum wage increase, this amount will also increase. To say that this proposal does not help single - parent families, it does not, to put it mildly, stand in place. On the subject of Mr Sneider's comment, I really thank you for drawing attention to the fact that parents who remain alone may not always be ladies, there are times when men, husbands, fathers do this. Honourable Congressman, I'm going to see what's going on with the student loan waiver. What you need to know is that we in this proposal do not make a difference in the fact that a single parent is a man or a woman. We would like, in all cases and for this reason, to say that it is in the best interest of the child in terms of the purpose of our proposal, whether a man or a woman is the sole parent, that the child should in any case obtain the benefits and subsidies that they deserve. And I'll look into student loans. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. I would ask the fellow Members to support the bill during the debate and in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-18-67	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear House, We now have a general debate on the proposal to amend certain tax laws until closure. Government referral T/16208. The information submitted by the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-18-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 11 May 2021, the Government submitted the T/16208 amending certain tax laws. Bill No. 1. The draft is an integral part of the government's tax policy, focusing on reducing taxes, simplifying taxation, further whitening the economy and promoting the re-launching of the post-pandemic system, and reducing administration. In addition, the bill also includes amendments to the tax law resulting from certain EU legal harmonisation obligations, which are conducive to uniform interpretation of the law and which have become necessary on the basis of practical experience. From 1 January 2022, the proposal also amends the rules for single entrepreneurs opting for flat-rate taxation in order to make the choice of this form of taxation a more attractive, easily feasible alternative for those carrying out smaller-scale business activities, typically with lower incomes than the minimum wage. The proposal also offers the same conditions as for the flat-rate self-employed to farmers with the rules introduced from 1 January 2021. In order to ensure continuous valorisation, the determination of the revenue threshold for the choice of flat-rate taxation will be linked to the amount of the annual minimum wage. In general, the limit will be set at 10 times the annual minimum wage and 50 times the annual minimum wage for retail entrepreneurs. With the minimum wage in force this year, this represents HUF 20 million and HUF 100 million, respectively, against the current HUF 15 million and HUF 100 million, respectively. Furthermore, the number of flat-rate cost rates to be used to establish income is reduced from the current eight to three. However, the most favourable change for those who choose the method of taxation will in any case be that the income determined by deduction of the corresponding cost ratio for the activity is exempted from personal income tax up to half the annual minimum wage. With the current minimum wage, this represents a tax-free income of HUF 1 004 400 per year. On the proposal of the Committee on Sustainable Economic Whitening in personal income tax, we are initiating a new set of rules for an area that has not been specifically regulated so far, since today there is increasing popularity in the conduct of various transactions with so-called crypto foreign currencies; more and more people are trying to obtain very significant income from these transactions. In the absence of specific rules, this income has so far been considered to be a different income, with a social contribution tax of 15 per cent in addition to personal income tax. The proposal now initiates the introduction of rules similar to the taxation of capital incomes in this circle, by introducing frameworks whereby the proceeds from the transfer of crypto devices acquired on various items can be established, and any loss in transactions will be taken into account by means of tax compensation. A tax liability will only arise if the crypto device is removed from the crypto world, i.e. it will be converted into another device. So as long as the various transactions take place within the crypt world, there is no taxation. The income generated by the sale of the crypto asset will be considered not as other income, but as a separate taxable capital income, after which 15 per cent of personal income tax is payable, but not as a social contribution tax. Due to a positive change in tax liability, we hope that more people will confess their income from these types of transactions, so a significant whitening in this segment of the economy is expected to occur. Honourable Members, As is known, the Parliament amended the Electricity Act in December 2020 in order to transpose into the regulation the provisions of the European Parliament and Council Directive on common rules for the internal market in electricity, which forms part of the package of clean energy of the European Union. As provided for in the Directive, it will be possible to connect domestic energy generation systems and energy communities to the national electricity grid only if the so-called gross settlement is applied as from 1 July 2021. Accession in this way will be mandatory for all from 1 January 2024. In the gross settlement system, the energy consumed and produced is accounted for separately at different unit prices and the difference between unit prices may be up to three times. The sale of energy thus clearly generates taxable income, while actual consumption has to be paid. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the Government's climate and nature conservation action plan, small electricity supply needs to be free from administration and personal income tax. To this end, the proposal presented to you exempts owners and operators of small domestic power plants from the payment of personal income tax up to the amount of electricity sold to 12 thousand kilowatt hours if they receive electricity sales as an active user or as a member of an energy community. The quantity of 12,000 kilowatt hours per year covers the annual electricity consumption of an average user, even when using an electricity-based heating system. The bill also initiates the introduction of two new tax-free items in connection with the implementation of the key government objectives. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: It will also be exempt from any benefits provided by the Regőczi István Foundation, which is founded by the President of the Republic, in support of children remaining orphaned as a result of the Covid-19 virus epidemic. The provision of the bill that does not require a new declaration every year to the mother, who has raised or raised four or more children, whose circumstances underlying the granting of the benefit will certainly not change, for example because her children are already adults or because she has been entitled to the family allowance for at least four years. Under the current rules, for deceased taxpayers, it is not possible for the heir to obtain the amount that the deceased could legally have provided for on the basis of his payments to a voluntary fund, pension savings account or pension insurance. The proposal now initiates the introduction of an addition to the Personal Income Tax Act, which makes it clear that this amount is due to the heir and can request that the tax authority allocates this tax relief to him. The allocation will also be possible in respect of claims made within the limitation period, on the basis of the request of the heir. Honourable Members, The government's primary objective is to continuously reduce the tax burden on labour and therefore continue to reduce the rate of social contribution tax as set out in the agreement signed on 24 November 2016 at the permanent consultation forum of the private sector and the government. The rate of tax will be reduced by half a percentage point from 1 July 2022 to 15 per cent. This measure is closely related to T/16204. The amendment to the tax system, which, as of 1 July 2022, also exempts from the tax system the payment of 1.5 per cent of the vocational training contribution, has been submitted to you. In order to ensure that the benefits associated with the payment of the vocational training contribution are not lost, the proposal recodes them as a benefit from the social contribution tax. [[14.50]] Since the basis for the VET contribution is the same as that of the social contribution tax, a 2 percentage point reduction in labour taxes is achieved and the number of taxes is reduced and the tax system is simplified. Dear Parliament, The main purpose of the company tax amendments contained in the bill is to ensure compliance with the final final stage of the harmonisation requirement set out in the EU anti-tax avoidance directive. In the future, corporate tax will cover those Hungarian-registered or based tax hybrid entities that are majority-owned abroad and are corporate tax entities abroad. The bill creates the corporate tax base of a new form of organisation established in 2021, the public-service trust fund, by granting a corporate tax exemption to the implementation of the public service mission. The proposal ensures that the asset allocation, free transfer to the public trust fund serving the public service mission is neutral from a corporate tax point of view and gives rise to a tax base reduction of 40% in the case of the ordering of assets. This is equal to the rate of the benefit currently granted to the foundations. In order to simplify the tax administration and facilitate the application of the law, the proposal includes a number of minor company tax changes, among which the corporate tax recognition of the costs incurred in relation to the private company bicycle fleet can be highlighted. Dear House, The bill also helps to re-establish the economy and to preserve the reduction of income tax by providing that the tax base of the energy supplier's income tax is negative, provided that it is possible to carry on as a loss in compliance with the principle of proper exercise of law in the future and can be described against 50 per cent of the positive tax base for five tax years, since, similarly to corporate taxation, it is fair to include in the income tax the loss previously incurred in the profit for the year, while maintaining appropriate limits. Corporate tax rules are applicable to the generation and use. First, the negative tax base for the tax year 2020 can be further carried forward. The bill also assists market participants active in re-launching the economy, venture capital fund managers, stock exchange providers and stock exchanges, which have not been charged by the special tax on financial institutions since 2022. The amendment facilitates the growth of SMEs and R &amp; D sectors and the achievement of economic and rural development objectives. Dear Parliament, Some of the changes affecting the system of taxation are integral to the government's economic whitening measures, and the bill also includes administrative cuts and changes to the application of the law. In Hungary, only a service provider that has previously notified this activity to the supervisory body may engage in home-service activities. Therefore, in the future, the tax authority will only accept the use of a registered head office provider. If, despite repeated calls, the taxpayer fails to settle the notification of the irregular head office provider, the tax authority shall delete its tax number. This is also an obstacle to the phantomization of companies. In order to reduce the administration of taxpayers, we provide for the reporting obligation of paying agents on the returns of post-security dividends and dividend advances introduced on the stock exchange in the EEA State. Based on the data available, the tax authority will also be able to include this income in the draft personal income tax return, so it will not be necessary to supplement these drafts in the future. The amendments to the tax administration and tax enforcement specify the rules of access to documents in a administrative manner, reduce the administrative burden for each taxpayer by extending the provision of chamber data, and make the implementation of specific acts more effective. The enforcement of the benefits of our country's membership of the EU has also justified the re-establishing of foreign debt management rules in the tax enforcement procedures. The rise in the exchange of information and recovery procedures in the European Union determines the treatment of our country's claims abroad, and we have largely changed the rules for the treatment of claims to third countries in this regard. By amending customs legislation, the accelerated procedure for infringements at the external borders of the European Union will be more extensive. On the basis of the amendment, an accelerated procedure will be possible even if the amount of the duty deficit resulting in the infringement is 100 thousand forints instead of the current 50 thousand forints, thus increasing the number of cases covered by the accelerated procedure. In the context of the accelerated procedure, fines are affordable on the spot, so that infringements are dealt with faster and more effectively. It reduces the administrative burden and thus accelerates the procedures by giving the customs authorities, during the imposition of the fine, a certificate which can be printed from the customs information system, which replaces the role of the receipt to be filled in manually. With regard to the framework for international tax cooperation, the bill contains amendments aimed at achieving full compliance with EU directives and other international standards. For example, an amendment is linked to the EU's tax dispute resolution regulation and the exchange of information on financial accounts. In addition, the Minister responsible for tax policy will have the same competence to conduct the various international tax dispute resolution procedures. Dear Parliament, Since the entry into force of the Act on the status of employees of the NAV, certain difficulties arising from the application of certain modified or new legal institutions have been identified. The proposals for amendments aim at resolving these difficulties. The bill contains basically amendments to the General Sales Tax for harmonisation purposes. In this context, on the one hand, there will be a significant simplification of the rules on the recovery of VAT on irrecoverable claims for businesses. Thus, as a result of the amendment, the circumstances in the person and condition of the buyer or debtor alone do not exclude the possibility of a reduction in the tax base, nor does it exclude recovery if the irrecoverability of the claim has been established beyond the limitation period. From July this year, the rules for paying VAT on e-commerce will change. As a result, in order to ensure payment of VAT after cross-border transactions, it will not be necessary, in the majority of cases, for the seller to register in the Member State which has tax jurisdiction in respect of the transaction. In these cases, the information on cross-border payments is an appropriate means of verifying that the seller has complied with its tax liability in a Member State other than that in which he is established. The proposal thus provides for the provision of data on cross-border payments by payment service providers for legal harmonisation purposes and only with effect from 1 January 2024. The proposal thus provides an adequate time for IT developments necessary to comply with these obligations. Also for legal harmonisation purposes, the bill creates the same conditions for VAT and excise duties by purchasing purchases under the EU common security and defence policy in the framework of NATO's joint defence effort, i.e. these purchases will benefit from tax exemptions under the same conditions as NATO purchases. Given that the rules on EU defence efforts are expected to enter into force from the middle of next year, the entry into force of this amendment to the bill will also be adapted to this date. Honourable Members, The bill contains amendments to the excise legislation for harmonisation purposes. Thus, the EU computerised system for the tracing of consignments should apply from 13 February 2023 to the taxable movements of excise goods between Member States of the European Union. In addition, the territorial scope of application of the excise provisions is changed due to the Brexit and small-scale breweries will also be allowed to cooperate with a reduced rate. Dear House, A minor amendment to the tax law is motivated by an attempt to exclude tax avoidance and to reduce abusive behaviour. Therefore, the concept of a company with domestic real estate property changes as proposed, and therefore the fact that, in the event of a repayment or repayment of CSOK, the flat purchased with CSOK will cease to be exempt from tax and the levy will have to be paid. Dear Parliament, The proposed amendment to the Accounting Act mainly includes proposals and simplifications made by businesses and professional organisations. The simplification will be achieved by the amendment allowing the accounting of development aid to offset the expected aid revenues in proportion to the costs incurred, in order to ensure compliance with the principle of convergence. The amendment to the unit of account of the contract also leaves for simplification to entrepreneurs to apply accounting rules for the contractual unit of account in the case of series production. The bill also proposes an amendment for harmonisation purposes. In this context, the content of the independent audit report shall be added to the declaration of compliance with the requirements of the Commission Regulation on the single electronic reporting format. [[15.00]] In addition, the bill provides for the withdrawal of audit reports which have been unlawfully issued and published to the accounts and for clarification, inter alia, regarding cost, corrective account requirements. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Audit Act contains a number of proposals for the expansion of electronic procedures, including the electronic signature of independent audit reports, the extension of the electronic possibilities of chamber administration and the possibility of conducting the Chamber delegation and chamber elections electronically. Dear House, In conclusion, the bill before you will help to preserve the progress achieved in recent years and will also fit in with the government's simplification tax policy, so please support and accept it. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-18-69	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/16208 on the amendment of certain tax laws on the table in this House. The purpose of the legislative proposal is to introduce the amendments resulting from certain legal harmonisation obligations in the EU and to include proposals to simplify the administration and facilitate the application of the law to assist the re-launch and whitening of the economy. In my speech, I would like to highlight the most important points of the bill before us. As regards personal income tax, it can be said from 1 January 2021 that the rules on flat-rate taxation for farmers have changed very positively. Farmers are, in principle, flat-rate farmers up to income below 10 times the annual minimum wage without subsidies. The part of the income from this activity of the farmer applying flat-rate taxation not exceeding half of the annual minimum wage is exempt from personal income tax in 2021 for HUF 1 004 400. In order to ensure uniform management and continuous evaluation, the proposal initiates the introduction of rules such as Ancient Producer Rules for self-employed persons from 1 January 2022. The aim of the proposal is to simplify the regulation and make the choice of a tax method more attractive for small-scale businesses, typically with income below the minimum wage. As regards social security, the proposal amends the rules on the application of the family contribution allowance in the context of a change in the rules on flat-rate taxation in personal income tax. Under the new rules, the single contractor opting for flat-rate taxation is exempted from personal income tax in respect of income below half the annual minimum wage, so that the flat-rate self-employed must only set a tax advance from the moment the flat-rate income exceeds half of the annual minimum wage. The TB. However, according to its rules, contributions are normally based on flat-rate income, but at least the minimum wage for full-time entrepreneurs. However, the family allowance may be used only on the basis of a flat-rate income contribution. For some time, therefore, the entrepreneur does not generate an income that could benefit from the contribution. The TB. The amendment therefore allows the flat-rate self-employed to make use of the family contribution allowance on the basis of the minimum wage for the benefit of the tax-free flat-rate income, thereby helping to make the family tax and contribution allowance more effective. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz fraction agrees with the government's priority objective of continuously reducing labour taxes and therefore continues to reduce the rate of social contribution tax further. The rate of tax will be reduced by 0.5 percentage points from 1 July 2022 to 15 per cent. This measure is closely related to T/16204. The amendment proposed in the draft law No 1 which, as of 1 July 2022, exempts from the scheme a payment obligation of 1.5 per cent of the vocational training contribution. In order to ensure that the benefits related to the payment of the vocational training contribution are not lost, the proposal codifies them again as a benefit from the social contribution tax. Since the basis for the VET contribution is the same as that of the social contribution tax, a reduction of 2 percentage points in the tax burden on labour is achieved and the number of taxes is reduced and the tax system is simplified. The most important change in relation to the amendments to the levies is that the housing purchased from 2021 using the family home creation discount is free of charge. At the same time, the levy must be paid later if the acquirer has used an advanced CSOK and, in view of the failure to fulfil the child-bearing obligation, the repayment of the CSOK has been ordered by the authority or has been voluntarily repaid by the acquirer. However, this scheme can also be used as a means of abuse, given that it is possible for the acquirer to use the CSOK only in the first place with the intention of making use of the tax exemption and voluntarily repaying the CSOK. In order to prevent abuse, the amendment should also result in the imposition of the levy if the acquirer repays the total amount of CSOK not only because of the lack of childbearing, but also for any reason, such as when the acquirer sells the apartment purchased using CSOK. However, there is no way to impose an ex-post levy if the CSOK is only partially repaid. Dear House, It is important to note that the government also wants to help re-launch the economy through tax policy, which is what next year's tax relief bill is all about. The social contribution tax is reduced to 15 per cent and the vocational training contribution is included in the tax while maintaining the benefits. The tax burden on labour is thus reduced by 2 percentage points and the tax system is further simplified. As a result of the changes, the company remains 250 billion HUF per year. It is intended to preserve the reduction in the cost of electricity that energy suppliers can deduct their losses from their pre-tax profit over the next five tax years. In my speech, I highlighted a number of key elements of the bill, which show that the government has been committed to the policy of tax reduction since 2010, which I believe can be supported by everyone. I therefore propose with respect and ask that the bill be supported by the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-18-71	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, who presents the position of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-18-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Of course, we can support any proposal to simplify the tax system, reduce administrative burdens, and otherwise they are good for entrepreneurs, good for individuals, good for Hungarians overall. I think that this bill before us is now almost close to the line on which we can say that every single point is indeed something that we can support. But you always manage to smuggle in a few points that at least raise your voice by opposition representatives and tell them the grievances that arise in relation to that package. And now let's look at the points that we can agree with and, of course, those we can't agree with. [[15.10]] The fact that the bill amends several laws, tax laws and taxes in a way that serves the objectives of EU or other international harmonisation is, I think, of course, eligible, and we can support them. But let's look at the points that I would like to highlight in the personal income tax law one by one, and start again with the positives. The first is to reduce the administrative burden for families with four or more children, family mothers who can benefit from the benefit, tax relief and tax exemption. It's a good thing. However, we have repeatedly said that it would have been good to extend this to mothers with three children, expecting the government to take action and really want to help large families. There is no change in this, so next year, the four or more children can continue to receive this tax relief. I consider it a very important and positive change to include tax exemptions in the use of bicycles by paying agents for workers. This is also important because, on the one hand, it raises environmental awareness, and, on the other hand, Giro d just wrote sports history in Italy, Attila Valter, I congratulate him on his road biking, so it is very important that we continue this bike movement, and we really agree with this change. And then there's the big question mark in the sja. We are pleased that there are such facilitations in flat-rate taxation. I feel this as a confession from the Secretary of State, because it was not so long ago, let's say, six months ago, when we said, in connection with the amendment of the Cata Act, that the 40 percent special tax imposed on the HUF 3 million threshold of the cata will start the processes that have happened, so here is the confirmation. Since flat-rate taxation is particularly... I agree with raising the threshold, by comparing it to the minimum wage, and it will be ten times its annual amount in some cases, and then 50 times its value for traders, that would have been fine, but it would have been nice if there were more specific figures, because then there wouldn't have to be a calculation, but anyway, this limit rose by HUF 5 million. But now it means, let's say, for construction services, a specialist, let's take it, a mason who, say, was a sub-contractor of several major contractors and general contractors, has now faced the fact that, as long as she is a cadaver, she reached HUF 3 million so quickly up to the threshold of 12 million that the general contractors, in a subtle way, say that thank you very much, then I will not order the service from you. Flat-rate taxation will remedy this, as it will also include these entrepreneurs in construction services, because they obviously want to work, and there is a general contractor group to which they are working. We have repeatedly drawn attention to this, and you have not even been open to raising this threshold to HUF 6 million. So flat-rate taxation is basically a good form of taxation, but by taking these measures last year at Kata, it is now apparently confirmed in this bill. The winners of the amendment to the corporate tax law are the public-service trust foundations, and here we have come to the point to which we opposition representatives can say: no more! So it wasn't a week and a half before these foundations were pushed through the House, the assets were saved nicely, and now they're pumping it even further through the Tao discounts. That's what we're talking about in this bill. And as long as we have said that, when you and the Tao support visual team sports, allow us to support health services institutions through discounts and tao discounts, you have said no to this proposal, and now, in relation to these foundations, 20 and 40 percent corporate tax reduction, depending on what you will give these foundations, these companies will be able to receive 20 and 40 percent Tao reduction items that will put them in these foundations. Well, there's nothing else to tell here but that public money is moving back to places it shouldn't have been. We've talked about the social contribution tax. It is very good that the rate of this is decreasing, and I can also agree that the tax system should be simplified, that the contribution to vocational training should be incorporated into the social contribution tax, the socho, and that is 2 percent overall, but we stress that this will enter into force from July 22, so it will not come into force from 1 January. Thus, entrepreneurs have to wait more than a year to reduce the tax burden on employers. I would also like to highlight what may not have been discussed before, but obviously the others will also mention the amendment of the local tax law. There is a very small amendment here, but in this connection I would like to ask the Secretary of State a question, which is not closely linked here, but I think that tourism tax and local government must be mentioned. The bill introduces an amendment to the local tax law based on other legislation, and this is that individuals who reside in the jurisdiction of the local government are exempt from tourist tax because of their public service obligations, they do not have to pay the tax after those nights. And what is this obligation, this public service obligation, what kind of legal relationship is this? So far, he has been a public servant, a public service worker, and now he is also a medical service member of the IFA exemption. There is nothing wrong with that, because we know that, by extending the relationship, of course, they are trying to enforce transfers, but at the moment you are prohibiting the collection of tourist tax. I would like to ask the Secretary of State when they will finally allow the municipalities to lose hundreds of millions of forints or even billions of dollars in revenue, which they have suffered as a result of the suspension of the IF, so that they can at least get some hope of when they can start taking this tree again. Because out of a few hundred forints to be paid after these guest nights, municipalities can make exactly the same tourist developments that make their settlement, their local government, even more attractive from a tourist point of view and for the tourists arriving there. The summer season of 2021 starts slowly, there is no compensation for this, it has not been cancelled, but it is also visible and noticeable from last year's compensations that they will not be paid by much if they have been collected from the guests. With regard to the levy, I would also like to mention that I fully agree with the need to take all measures to initiate the whitening of the economy and the reduction of abuses. Indeed, if someone has used the CSOK and then has an obligation to repay it, and therefore the tax exemption no longer exists, they must be recovered as soon as possible and as much as possible, since we cannot afford any abuse, and it is essential to put the protection of public money first, and if such is achieved in a draft legislation, it should be eligible. I think, obviously, there were other pieces of legislation that you are amending, as I said at the beginning, most of them are EU harmonisation links, and overall I can say about the bill that if it hadn't been for the Taós package, we might have been able to support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-18-73	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Lőrinc Nacsa, who presents the opinion of the KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-18-74	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to point out to the congresswoman that the agreement with or concluded with higher education institutions in the Tao Law is still in place, many universities and higher education institutions already have an agreement with forprofit and market firms with a win-win agreement in order to be able to write off from corporate tax that value-enhancing investments and grants are being made in these higher education institutions. So, if this is just the problem of the congresswoman, which has already existed, then we have also solved the support of the Jobbik faction for the tax law, because it is obvious that the congresswoman does not want those universities operating in the form of foundations, and those universities operating in a state form, to be discriminated against in some way and not to apply to anyone. [[15.20]] Obviously, the congresswoman used that word by accident, but here it is only the citizenship of the university, the university students, and the students of higher education who can, for example, be the winner of such agreements. We had no hidden intentions, and in the debate on the university model change, we also repeatedly said that we would like companies to have a closer relationship with higher education institutions. After all, a lot of people will be working with large service providers, large companies and industrial actors who are currently studying at universities, such as engineering, or many cases where it is important that market needs be taken into account by the higher education institution, that training, that faculty, that department. It is important to enter into partnerships with large companies, and I think that this amendment serves this purpose, just as the Tao Law may have under Article 4 of the Tao Law. In Section 16 of the Act, it has been possible to conclude agreements with a higher education institution. So I think that this is appropriate and that this should continue to be supported. I wanted to add this to your comment, and I think that it is right, you said why there is no specific amount in Katás tax, also at the minimum wage, so we asked us why there is no specific amount in it. After all, we hope that in the coming years, as we have seen in recent years, the minimum wage will continue to rise. [[Mrs. Potochanya Anita Kőrösi intervenes.]] This will allow the threshold to rise, and it will not be, honourable Member, that you will be calling us to account here next year and then again, and then you will be calling us from the opposition to account for why we are not increasing this threshold, because it has already exceeded the time, since the minimum wage has increased further since then. So I think it is right that it is tied to the minimum wage and bound to ten times its annual amount, so that there is no need to amend the limits in the bill every year, thus also facilitating Parliament's work and the work of the future opposition. With regard to tax laws, I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen, before I go into details, that I am listening to the statements made here in the heat of your pre-election show in various media, and I see that there is actually one thing that the actors in the pre-election agree on, I am sure many, this tax increase, that you want to raise taxes. They all talk about multi-key taxes, a lot of people would have to pay 30 percent instead of the current 15 percent, if you came to government, and your statements always point in the same direction that you want to raise local taxes, general taxes, personal income tax. We often say here about the municipalities, and we have argued many times over the last year that we believe that the municipality is for the people and not the people for the municipalities, the municipality is for the businesses there, and not the other way around. You see it differently. But one thing is certain, there is already a common point in the left-wing conglomerate, and this is the attraction to tax increases, the constant experimentation with tax increases and the playing with tax increases. We think, on the other hand, that taxes should be reduced constantly. Each year, at the debate of the tax law, we can conclude that due to the performance of the Hungarian economy, government, economic and tax policy, the work of Hungarian people and businesses, tax can again be reduced. We do not think that the solution to a crisis is to sabotage businesses, to sabotage people, as you did during your crisis management period in 2008-2009, when various taxes were skyrocketed, but to reduce taxes, to help businesses to keep jobs, to start investments, to help families, and to keep reducing taxes predictable year by year. At the same time, since the tax reduction started in 2010, tax burdens have decreased by 4-5 percent of GDP in Hungary; we are talking about a huge amount of 4-5 percent of GDP. Consider an example. In 2016, the rate of the social contribution tax was 27 per cent, until last summer after a further 2 percentage points reduction from 1 July 2020 only 15.5 per cent, instead of 17.5 per cent. The employer's tax burden on wages will be further reduced by 2 percentage points from 1 July 2022, whereby the vocational training contribution will be removed in order to reduce the administrative burden and the social contribution tax rate will be reduced by 0.5 percentage points to 15 percent. The introduction of the VET contribution also reduces the number of taxes and significantly simplifies the tax system, so as of 1 July 2022 only one type of tax, and only 15 percent social contribution tax, will be the tax on labour. In comparison: in the 2008 Gyurcsány tax system, employers' tax burdens on wages were affected by five types of taxes, which represented a total tax burden of at least 33.5 per cent on wages for employers. There's a big difference. Small business tax, the regulation of kiva, has also been significantly simplified since 2017, and the barriers to entry and termination of taxable persons have increased. In 2021, the revenue and balance sheet limit of the withdrawal increased to HUF 3 billion, and in line with this, the revenue threshold for the loss of small corporate taxpayers increased to HUF 6 billion. From 1 January 2021, the small company tax fell by another 1 percent, from 12 per cent to 11 per cent, providing an even more favourable tax environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. The small company tax rate was still 16 percent in 2016. With a view to simplifying the flat-rate taxation of self-employed persons, from 1 January 2022, the proposed legislation now under discussion also proposes favourable rules for self-employed persons which are similar to those of pre-producers. According to the rules in force, self-employed persons can opt for flat-rate taxation under HUF 15 million and self-employed persons operating exclusively in retail activities can opt for income below HUF 100 million. These thresholds will be set according to rules which are significantly more favourable to individual enterprises as from 1 January 2022. The flat-rate tax threshold, as we have said, is set at 10 times the annual minimum wage and 50 times the annual minimum wage for individual enterprises engaged in retail activities. In line with this, the social security rules will also be amended, which will allow the flat-rate full-time self-employed to make use of the family contribution allowance for the benefit of the tax-free flat-rate income, which will also help to make the family tax and contribution allowance more enforceable. I think it is very important that the family tax scheme in Hungary is one of the widest family benefits, since the family tax allowance is used by 98 percent of those who are entitled to it. I think that one of the broadest levels of family support and, by the way, tax reduction and tax relief was the family tax relief in Hungary, which you have previously abolished. The proposal also lays down new tax rules for the tax liability of the proceeds from the transaction with crypto devices. Here, it could be said that we are progressing with age, we see that there are an increasing number of such transactions happening both in Hungary and throughout the world, so it is necessary to regulate this in this way, because according to the tax rules currently in force, the Crypto currency is an asset, but it cannot be found, and none of the categories of tax law can be matched. For this reason, the proceeds from the transfer of the crypto currency bear the public costs as other income, which is also borne by the 15.5 per cent social contribution tax in addition to the personal income tax of 15 per cent, thus encouraging a higher tax burden than similar capital incomes to conceal income. According to the new legislation, the income generated by the sale of the CryptoCurrency will be considered as a separate taxable capital income, after which 15 per cent of personal income tax is payable, but not a social contribution tax. I would like to note here that this is another step in the economic whitening policy of the last 10 to 11 years. I think that the steps taken so far, from year to year, have proved to be successful in the whitening of the economy. This was reflected in the tax revenue, the fact that our economy was simplified and whitened. This will also contribute to continuing to support only legal, legal and otherwise the simplest forms of taxation, and the Hungarian tax administration will act as decisively as possible against the concealment of incomes, the various attempts to blacken the economy, and the tax system should also be one where whitening the economy is a priority. [[15.30]] As I have seen in recent years, I think we have seen that the Secretary-General and the Secretary of State have made a number of suggestions that served this purpose. I think that the whitening of the economy is one of the great successes in recent years, which the Hungarian economy, government and economic policy can record for themselves, and from online invoicing we can think of countless measures through cash registers. The introduction of the new category of tax law in Cryptovatals also significantly reduces the tax burden compared to the current rules, so it is expected that more individuals will confess their income from this type of transaction, which will also lead to further whitening in this segment of the economy. It is worth highlighting the element of the proposal that makes allowances exempt under scholarships and support programmes from the Blue Planet Climate Protection Foundation, founded by the President of the Republic, in the interest of achieving the Foundation's objectives. I would also like to mention the other initiative of the President of the Republic, the Regőczi István Foundation, which is a foundation to support children who have remained orphans or half orphans as a result of the corona virus epidemic. Any benefits granted here too will be exempt. I deeply agree with the initiative of the President and his wife of the Republic to set up the foundation and to allow Parliament to exempt the benefits coming here through tax laws. I also urge my fellow Members to support this noble goal if they have the opportunity, because I think it is in our common interest that after this very difficult year we can help children and young people in distress together and not just one single, then forgotten help, but a continuous monitoring, a continuous support that will lead them to their own adulthood. This is one of the most supported elements of the bill. Mr Secretary of State also said that a number of amendments resulting from EU obligations to harmonise legislation, as well as administrative clarifications and facilitations, as well as provisions facilitating the application of the law, are included in the tax law amendment before us. However, I think that what Mr. State Secretary has said, and by reading through the bill, it is clear that we want to go further on the tax reduction policy, we want to make life easier for businesses, employers, workers and Hungarian families, and therefore the KDNP fraction will support the adoption of tax laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-18-75	Thank you. The next speaker in the keynote round is Attila Mesterházy, who presented the opinion of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-76	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I may have read another draft law, such as the Members of the Fidesz and KDNP before me, or just what the Secretary of State reported, since they used words and adjectives to characterize this current amendment, which after reading it, to be honest, I do not fully understand, because here they were talking about almost some historical changes and one of the most important tax amendments of all time. I see much more legal changes in this regard. There are indeed a few more interesting parts of this draft law, but that it is not historical and does not change the structure and structure of Hungarian taxation here in Hungary, it is quite certain. I see that Hungarian families receive almost nothing on the basis of this amendment. I am sure that I can contrast with this, since I am saying that these measures do not mean changes in the tax law of Hungarian families, but rather are changes in the tax law of trust foundations. So what I see as being started in the field of education and embedded in such a form of foundation, which takes place in the political dimension of a kind of educational and cultural struggle, is now associated with so-called specific financial instruments, because it was not enough, it seems, the wealth that was given to these trust foundations in a thousand billion-dollar order, but also the tax legislation is now designed to make it worthwhile for companies to put additional money into these foundations, where appropriate. Perhaps my fellow Member Nacsa quoted the Tao law on this matter. If you can say so, this may allow even more favourable regulation for companies. So, overall, we can say that there are legal changes, there are some points that, let's say, bring about some change for employers, but otherwise, the scope or impact of this law, I think it is minimal, unless we mention the benefit of foundations managing capital, the abolition of its special tax. But I do not think that this is a major change for Hungarian families either. So that is why I say that this can probably be an important change for their own clientele, but this amendment is fundamentally of limited importance for Hungarian families or Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. For this reason, because it cannot be read out of it for any social policy purpose that is important to us, or which is of significance to us, or which could not be seen from a number of their previous amendments, the faction of the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot, of course, support this. In particular, we do not wish to assist them so that these trust funds can be stuffed with more and more money while they are implanting their own people there, with two-thirds of their laws being cemented. So in fact, I would just repeat what I started by saying that the conclusion is that by reading these 114 pages, I do not see that huge historical change on this basis, it does not help the Hungarian families, it may serve their own clientele, which is why the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will vote against this. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2021-05-18-77	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-78	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Dear House, You will be very surprised that if we go along with the ideas that Mr Attila Mesterházy has started, and I express my opinion that, despite you and Minister Mihály Varga talking about tax cuts, I really think that we should investigate these. Let us at least be objective in this debate. If you're talking about VAT and tax reductions or tax exemptions in relation to home creation, I understand that you're letting go or creating a situation where you think you're doing the right thing, but I'm looking at all of your steps very skeptical, because basically over the last few years, we've had to learn to see what's behind it, what's really going on, what you're trying to cover up by the fact that if many people feel they've done well, or if they've done a little good, then those behind you, economic operators, what they're doing really well. Well, let's just say that one man, the opportunity for many Hungary, is now an election year, isn't it, and for you, in this desperate situation, that most of the people no longer choose Fidesz, doesn't want to see him in the government in this respect, he wants to get rid of him, this desperate situation or despair, I can see that he's making you take steps that are certainly surprising. What they're doing in relation to the foundations is saving property and the apparently built-up theft attack, which they're going to launch here, with the names and faces of the Members, that's not gonna happen. But let us go through this story because, as I said, the tax laws promise to reduce the tax burden on employers. I'm telling you, they promised me 21, and then in the budget, I didn't see the consequences, so what was supposed to be done during the year didn't really turn into anything. [[15.40]] Of course, next year, you will have the courage to promise anything, because you will not govern, so you really will not take a great risk in this regard, but I still think that your obligation to employers should be monitored. As regards personal income tax, I heard Mr. Secretary of State telling me what they were paying attention to. Here, it's primarily with crypto devices, let's just say farming is what's in your focus. But compared to what you've been doing, well, let's just say you've done a lot of work in this regard. In essence, the area remains unregulated. We know that there are countries where it is expressly forbidden and they do not want to deal with it; here you are using such half-solutions, which I am afraid are only going to cause more trouble than you thought. The rate of the social contribution tax reduced from 15.5 per cent to 15 per cent from 1 June 2022, by half a percentage point, would not be considered a historic step in the area of tax reductions. You guys don't usually do that. They just keep talking about how it's gonna happen. However, I would like to remind Mr Secretary of State, although he may not have dealt with this at the time, there in the early 2010s you introduced 24 new taxes and, with their help and as a result of the development of information technology, you are chasing entrepreneurs to pay as much as possible. It's true that they choose who to check, because some people need to be checked, some people are forbidden. So in this way, I think that your rules must be taken with doubt if they do such a thing. I'll give you an example. Here, the university foundations and these foundations, which you have now set up with a nice number, have recapitalisations, and now you are assigning that, essentially according to the Tao system, companies can pay in there, and they believe that this will remain the case after the change of government, and that those foundations can be financed from the corporate side, and that they will forget to create the control condition. Secretary of State, how do you explain that in the Foundation for Reinforcing Upstairs, to which more than HUF 10 billion has been paid this year alone, I mention the last years, because there has been a court decision to account for more than HUF 22 billion, where this foundation has decided, instead of reporting its public tasks, instead of presenting the contracts, the accounts, which can't be achieved by the court's executive, that this foundation will, by the way, demonstrate that the public money, which even your Constitutional Court has decided to make public money... to account for this? Do you still make 12 foundations for this, Mr. Secretary of State? Is that why you were created to act like this? I think that the existence of their public-interest trust foundations, called the public-service provider, is the same, and they want to work here with this attitude for the future. The new rule for these new types of foundations is that these organisations are exempt from corporate tax for a part of their tax base whose purposes are used for public tasks and for carrying out activities of general interest. Dear Secretary of State, Everything will be classified under it in the same way if it can be avoided because you deliberately ignore it or allow it to be done without control and believe that these declarations will be made accordingly. In this way, I believe that public money is being used improperly. That is what I have to assume if, for example, this foundation has not been able to account for the past few years. But we are talking in this law about the abolition of sectoral special taxes, the abolition of the special tax on venture capital fund managers and stock exchanges. I am interested to see what their next move will be to see how these capital funds will become increasingly tax-free, but we will also see this. They give another discount to those who are kind to you, those who have your political power in an economic sense... On the other hand, they owe their economic power to your political power, because, by the way, they've put a lot of government orders in their necks, and they're making a fortune in creating constructions that you now provide pleasant tax reliefs, and in this way they can repay their tax exemption. But if you do not think that in general, Mr Secretary, and if you happen to think that this would be examined by the tax authority, then there are some players here that are worth drawing attention to. Here, after the previous economic sovereignty war, it seems to me that everyone has struck such an occupation by themselves, and the more money they want to collect for themselves, a full-time attack, the country's basic infrastructure is being driven home with steam, and now, to be clear, I am talking not only about foundations, but also about all the other opportunities that different actors are taking advantage of and taking what they see. Mr. Secretary of State was interested in listening to me or looking at me as to what I might think. I'll tell you right away because my fellow Members from the pro-government side like to talk about what they're trying to stun voters with, for example, how many of them were at the Elizabeth camp, and how they've never had one, they invented it. With all due respect, you didn't make it up, you did it before, a lot of people went to these places, and even though they said or emphasized it, they did. But if people look a little further and look beyond what they're talking about, then it's easy to see that those are the real capitalists, the new national capital class that you want to support, what you're doing while you're doing, see Lőrinc Mészáros. In recent months, with your active attention, half of Hungary has already acquired its gas supply system. I understand that the focus of your policy is the creation of a national capital class. This national capital class can also be listed by name. Well, we can start here with him or them, by running a lot of things or more, and in this way, they're gonna use it. But in this respect, I should not just talk about energy infrastructure, so that in Hungary, as I said, Tigáz Zrt. It provides nearly half of Hungary's territory with what they have acquired here, but this includes solar panels, and we could add a list of which you would be happy to provide tax incentives. I understand, just admit this, and demonstrate how the Turkish partners working with him will benefit. Or there is another large package, which you are very proud of, and offer different discounts to the banking sector, where, see wonder, again, the name of Lőrinc Mészáros emerges in view of the great merger between MKB, the Savings Bank and the Bank of Budapest, where I say to all of you and to the Protocol, with a balance sheet total of HUF 6800 billion, with a client loan of HUF 3600 billion, and with a deposit fund of EUR 4500 billion, this is what you have played in private hands over the past years with hard work from the savings cooperatives, under the supervision of the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the Hungarian National Bank. [[15.50]] They have done so, and frankly, it will never be acceptable for me to see people's money, public wealth, turn private wealth into a new, daily example of this, we can give another example. It belongs to the same circle, when you give discounts to those who benefit from the public IT system, they receive many tens of billions of HUF orders, including the giant development of the Hungarian Treasury account management system through the Ministry of Finance to such a company, 4iG. Well, respectfully, I wouldn't have asked for it. But I would like to draw your attention, for example, to the concentration in the railway industry, where it seems that Árpád Habony and his partner, András Tombor, are to be reckoned with. In case you didn't notice, they're being helped and supported when they're being provided with a lot of things through vehicle repairers. I understand that they also have international relations, but this, together with Stadler's international company, is not what Hungary had previously known as Stadler. Then I could continue to do this in the field of military industry, in the area of Balaton tourism, where you give such discounts. Therefore, it cannot be said that this law is of any value to the Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-18-79	Thank you. Antal Csárdi, our fellow Member, who presented the opinion of the LMP Group, closes the main speaker group. Here you go.
u2021-05-18-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The amendments to the tax laws for next year have somehow turned out to be even weaker this year than we have seen in recent years, but it is clear that there is no substantive amendment that would really and substantially help our fellow citizens here. This is particularly sad after such a crisis year. Let's remember that a year ago, the government promised infinite money, and he kept talking about an unlimited, open budget from above, but what has happened since then. So here's my question: what do you think this is happening now? Do you think that by amending the tax laws that will enter into force next year, the opportunities have been maximized? Because I don't think so. We know that there is a great deal of tax-paying money spent on government communication and success propaganda, but then how can people feel that they have been abandoned by the government and that they cannot see the way out, for example, by those who have lost their jobs, but by many small and medium-sized enterprises, many self-employed people are on the verge of bankruptcy, or often not by the edge, but by bankruptcies. You said that as many of our countrymen lose their jobs, you create so many jobs. Where are we on this project? But I am asking you very, very much not to include the fact that actors are working as pizza runners, or when a small businessman who has made a living from commerce leaves after bankruptcy, I don't know. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Congressman!]] Working in a car wash. I think we should not count these, because if you had given these companies a fair amount of meaningful help, they could have survived. Let me add that you spend an enormous amount of money on government communication, which is understandable only from one side and only: from something you have to pay for the damages that the media funded by your ads will have to pay for the continuously lost court cases. But let's not stop here. Practically every year, the amendment to the SAY is one of the most important parts of the tax proposal, in addition to the VAT law. The LMP is constantly struggling to create a fairer, more socially sustainable tax system in Hungary, so every year we submit the multi-key tax among our amendments. We already know that, as my fellow Member Nacsa has already said, this is a tax increase. My fellow Member Nacsa is so right that it is a tax increase for Lőrinc Nacsa, he is right that it is a tax increase for Antal Csárdi, and he is also right that he would probably have to pay more taxes in this tax system than he is now. But let's add, because it is also a reality that, up to an average income of half a million forints a month, this tax system would leave a lot more money in people's pockets. I think that through this you can show your economic policy perfectly: keep as much as possible in your pockets. Yes, I think I could continue by making the part of personal income tax that is subject to the minimum wage tax tax tax. Yes, it should be exempt, because at the moment the argument that Gergely Gulyás said does not stop, the Minister said that the minimum wage should not be exempt, but should be increased more. But then what's stopping you? Because the 6-7 thousand forints that raise the minimum wage are practically unable to follow the rate of inflation. I think that this can be because of one thing and because of one thing, because multinational companies do not benefit from a high minimum wage, and you still and consistently represent the interests of multinational companies exclusively. That's the saddest part about this. I think, instead of making background agreements with the multinationals, they could do Hungarian society the favor of finally bringing in a budget or a tax amendment linked to the budget to this House that would finally be about helping society to a greater extent. I know, I know what you're going to say, Mr. Secretary, but I think half a percent probably doesn't hit the level that I would call meaningful. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Two!]] However, it works as a suggestion among the amendments concerning sja, about two-thirds of which is about this, the regulation of cryptovatals. What's going on there? You have to pay 15 percent personal income tax. I can almost see how suddenly, in the Svarc, crypto-Credit mining companies suddenly logged in that they would still like to pay this tax. At the same time, there will be a layer of people who would like to do so, who would like to legalize their otherwise illegally acquired income. This is what you are offering through this law, so that those businesses, typically not even small businesses, can get access to them or, let's just say, make these money look like legal income. I believe this is in the interest of these companies, but where is society again? You don't think, Mr. Secretary, that there is such a great deal of krypto currency mining among the Hungarian population that it would help them, do you? I think it is very difficult to say words of genuine support for this law, because, beyond the fact that typically offshore companies are helped by this crypto currency regulation, I can practically describe very few rules that would really help the people who live here. [[16.00]] Another particularly important form of taxation, in which the government has been fulfilling the interests of multinational companies for many years, is corporate tax. The top key has been abolished, but as a result, these large companies are now almost not at all involved in financing our common costs. It is worth looking at the extent to which corporate tax appears in the budget figures. I think it is very important to change that. Indeed, the higher key should be restored, and large companies should be obliged to pay for it, because it is in the interests of Hungarian society. By the way, social justice also requires that not only working people throw together our common costs, the tasks that the state or the local authorities carry out. The most insufferable part of this package of proposals is the tax amendment for foundations, as there are new rules for public-service trusts. According to this, the grant, benefit, non-refundable value of the asset transferred without reimbursement, 20% of the cost of the service provided without charge, 40% of the tax base in the case of founder's or affiliated property arrangement, up to a maximum of the amount of the profit before tax, is granted to the public trust fund carrying out the public service mission in the course of the tax year. The tax base may be reduced if the tax is covered by a certificate issued by the public-service trust fund for the purposes of determining the tax base, including the name and registered office of the issuer and the taxpayer. I think that we have seen precisely that, in the course of the transformation of higher education, you have escaped the fact that you have practically outsourced higher education from public funding and are trying to establish an opaque system that there will be no man in this country to see through the management of these foundations, and, as my fellow Member has already pointed out, there is not a single control body of Parliament that is certainly not, unfortunately, one of these foundations. You don't have to be a genius to see exactly why they came up with this proposal. The government, knowingly and precisely organized, transfers all this wealth to foundations. So far, 16 foundations have been set up, 11 of which are new organisations linked to the model change of universities. I think this is wrong and unacceptable. I think that it is also, let us say, not among the eligible parts, that the future functioning of foundations is facilitated by the government proposal by two further steps. It is proposed not to increase the income tax base of energy suppliers by providing property to a public-service trust fund, with support, and by amending the levy law, the Foundation and the Public-Service Trust Foundations Act provide the Foundation with a total personal tax exemption. So I think that whoever reads these few laws, which are about this, will be able to see precisely and crystal clear the objective of you disorganizing public wealth and removing it from the control of public wealth. You can say nice things, but that's the end of it. Dear House, I think we've come to the point where it's a general traffic tax law, and we see that it doesn't include reducing VAT on basic foods again. I understand that you do not think this is necessary, but if you look at the extent of inflation, if you look at how much the price of basic foods has increased in the last year only if you look at two, it is not a more cheerful picture, then I think it is clear that basic foods, which are essential to ensure everyone's access, could be substantially reduced by a government decision, which would otherwise be appropriate if it were to achieve the 5% level of basic foods proposed by the LMP. This was a serious problem last year, and unfortunately it will be no different this year. Overall, what I can say about this bill is that it is weaker than in previous years, it does not contain any substantive changes, and instead of trying to help a large population of society, it is trying to further increase the social gap, which today is clearly an existential one, so that we do not go any further, between the people and workers in the capital city and those living and working in rural areas. As long as you want to represent this economic policy when amending the tax laws, while you are trying to favour the wealthy, the lucky few, such a law will not be supported by May Other Politics. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-18-81	Thank you. The first independent Member to make a statement may now speak with the closing of the main speaker's round. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-05-18-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government is T/16208. He submitted to the House a proposal for a salad law amending the tax law, which I cannot say a good word about except for simple technical amendments. This package of laws serves no other purpose than to put organisations living on speculation in an even more favourable position by amending tax laws. The system, structure, beneficiaries or powers of the tax laws basically define the economic policy of a country. But, whether you like it or not, the condition set out in the tax laws is also very much an indication of a government's social policy. We all remember that in the last 11 years, we have heard nothing from our Prime Minister but that he wants a work-based society, that Hungarian citizens can get along with the work, and that Hungarian citizens can get along with the results of the work. It has introduced a personal income tax system that provides tax relief for children, thus supporting families, and is strongly and strongly based on the fact that they are not trying to build a society out of aid or guaranteed basic incomes. But the problem is, it's just a speech. When this bill package is thoroughly studied and the consequences of these amendments run through its head, the 250 billion that the government referral is about to keep in the pockets of economic operators, I can tell you that at least half of this will remain in the pocket of their own oligarchs. Because you, whether you like it or not, are exclusively in favour of the effectiveness resulting from the economic activity which supports, on the one hand, the growth of assets obtained from public funds through public procurement and the speculation-based additional income of holders of the same property. [[16.10]] It was shocking to me that a government that was supposed to be family-centred and supposedly built on work, with individual welfare, could describe in a tax amendment the fact that they were traders with a poor crypto currency, so now they should pay 15 percent sja and 15.5 percent social contributions, well, no, no, no, no. Let this be a separate tax income and pay only the social contribution tax. Well, please, these sentences alone tell us that you have no idea of leaving money with families or micro-enterprises as a result of the Hungarian citizens' income from their work. No, I didn't. They want to put in place the circles that move the Hungarian government. And then let's talk about another matter. For example, here is what my fellow Members have already talked about, supporting trust funds. We all know that at least half of the Tao funds spent on sports have been stolen. It is almost impossible to verify that, despite the fact that there are a group in the EMMI system to monitor this, I think there are five or six of them, physical inability to control it. So it is fundamentally impossible for such a professional community to be able to carry out effective control. But we all know that sports didn't show the result that the Tao intended. If you look at the sports results of the last 11 years in all sports and look at the effectiveness of the previous 11 years or up to 22 years or even 33 years, you will see that, with a fraction of state support, our athletes have achieved significantly higher and significantly greater sports results in world competitions. I mean, you've proven that lack of money couldn't have been the cause of inefficiencies, especially in football, because the fact that two-footed people make three or four million a month is incredibly repulsive for society. But let's get back to the other features of the proposal. The purpose of the law is to improve the control of tax morale and to make certain proposals that go forward in this direction. But there's one thing I miss about every tax bill, and I've said it several times. This is the introduction into taxation of social groups who have been incredibly, alien to society's moral values, excluded from taxation for decades. If you look at how much personal income tax goes into the NAV system, you will see how many active people are in Hungary, if you look at how many people are unable to work in Hungary for other reasons, and see how many people over the age of 18 are still learning, whether you like it or not, there are still a million minuses, who we do not know where they live from. And I stress that I am not talking about the wives who run the household at home, because, unfortunately, it is a very small number in Hungarian society. So what I would expect, for example, is that you would be kind enough to figure out is that people who are living on aid, who travel with Mercedes and huge guys, and who are taking the aid away from people in usury, when you're willing to be on some kind of regulator's path or by strengthening tax control, are involved in public burdens. I would like to see, for example, the report here in front of the Parliament when the financial government talks about how many people have finally been brought to tax, let us say, with a comprehensive property inspection and an examination of the income that has been taxed on it, as a result of which they certainly have to put their own burden on the public, and the government does not expect the people who earn the average wage to keep this country on their shoulders. That's what I'd like to see. I wish to stress that once I have something to do with government, believe me, these will be the first to pay taxes or give their wealth and wealth to the common. Because we are 31 years after the change of regime, and there are still a million people who live well, but they don't pay taxes! We know they don't live in Kossuth Square, so we have to go to them and look for them, but I think that's what we should use energy for, because that's what society's sense of justice requires. The proposal says that 250 billion forints remain in business. Well, if I take into account two million businesses, the number around which is the one who is registered in Hungary, it means 125 thousand forints per year per organisation. You know that most of this is certainly not going to small businesses. And I find it particularly impertinent that in 2021, in May, we will be discussing a legislative amendment proposal that will decrease by half a percent from 1 July 2022, i.e. possibly around 3 percent or less... [[Nacsa Lawrence: Two!]] Let's say he gives you a discount of 3 percent of the tax. Don't tell me 2 percent of people, thank you to my fellow Member, Nacsa Lőrinc, but don't tell me that this is what makes a business fall apart. For real this time. From 15.5 percent to 15 percent in 14 months, i.e. after the election, a tax that, forgive me, I have not yet heard from a single entrepreneur that this tax would destroy them. This is not the biggest problem for honest, not government-winded businesses, but the biggest problem is that there is inequality in public procurement, the biggest problem is that a certain economic circle is already overcoming 60% of economic performance. They have a margin of almost zero, and they are usually needed when large public funds are being deprived of resources and resources, and are replaced by them, generally temporarily. A hundred words end with a package of legislative amendments, which in any way would increase the profitability of society, I simply think it is false. Why do you like to look people in the eye and not tell the truth? You are the supporters of speculation income, you are the supporters of the large capital that make good use of income not in the free market, their ability and the results of their aspiring work, but are good at the methodology of public procurement, and you further strengthen their long-term money flow by giving benefits and tax incentives even to speculation-based incomes. A man who wants to govern fairly in this country begins with the income needed to sustain a living being not an income. Today, there is a minimum salary of 100,000 forints, there is no decent government who applies for taxes from someone else. Because our biological reproduction is not an income, because if we don't eat, if we don't eat, if we don't have hygiene around, we die. It's a simple thing, isn't it? We're biological beings. The cost of re-production of the biological being is not income. It would be nice to learn that slowly, so after thirty or a few years. And above-the-counter incomes must, yes, be included in public burdens fairly. Those who destroy our environment by their large scale economic activity, whether they like it or not, the ability to earn income increases environmental consumption in a direct proportion, whether they like it or not, must be taxed in the proportion they use the social, economic and natural environment. And it's not a tax increase, please, it's fair taxation fair taxation! And if we don't go this way, then this society, which has already been broken and experienced enormous polarization, will break even further, the scissors will be even bigger between the poor and the rich, and thank you very much for reaching the societies of South and Central America, where the rich will be separated by four meters of stone walls from the simple poor people, who will have no choice but to go on the path of sin to sustain themselves. [[16.20]] I guess no one wants a polarized society like this. I think the government will see that not only the capital and not just the multinationals should be supported, but also the simple people of flesh and blood, and that when a tax-law-modifying package of such views is brought in, then everyone will support it. In any case, I do not consider this to be a package of legislative proposals to support society and create any generally favourable conditions. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-18-83	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I therefore give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited, and also as Chairman of the Budget Sub-Committee of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, allow T/16208 on the amendment of certain tax laws. I would like to state our position with regard to bill No 1. At its meeting on 17 May 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary decided to hold a detailed debate on the adoption of the House Rule 32. § (2) and formed an opinion on the resolution of the House Rule 36. Paragraph 5 of this Article. The Committee supported the amendments with 13 unanimous votes, most of which are aimed at relaunching the economy. This amendment is, in short, a package of laws on tax reductions and tax simplifications, which will benefit all small and medium-sized enterprises operating in Hungary, including those belonging to Hungarian nationalities. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Crown Virus pandemic has put businesses in a difficult position worldwide, making millions of people's livelihoods uncertain. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary welcomes all the government's efforts to mitigate the crisis caused by the epidemic, to reduce people's uncertainty, and therefore proposes to adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-18-85	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Now for two minutes Nacha... [[For signal:]] He took it back. Then it is for our better fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2021-05-18-86	Mr President, Dear House, May the desire of a single opposition representative always be fulfilled so quickly. I also thank my fellow Members for their moderation in this regard. I would like to say that we are conducting a tax debate not only once a year. I've been in Parliament since 2010, and we've had about 50 confrontations here. Let us conclude that we are not far from each other when we start to really want to make workable income more accessible rather than a relief approach, and that if someone is working, they can earn their salary as much as possible. It is therefore surprising to us that since 2010 there has been a minimal shift in the tax wedge, and although, of course, there will be statistical data that will try to prove that since 2010 there has been a substantial shift, the fact is that we are in the same category in international comparison to the same extent as before. Therefore, it cannot be stated that the tax burden on labour would have decreased substantially. And let's just let the accounting profession know how many taxes. I have a fellow Member who is much better at this, but there have also been exotic tax types since 2010 that have not been on the palette before. What really bothers me with regard to the tax changes in the foundations is the fact that the two or three clauses of the National Property Act had previously applied to state assets, now not to the assets to be transferred to the foundations. One is related to the fact that if they do not manage these assets according to the intended purpose, then what happens next. With regard to state assets, the restoration of an original state may also be the consequence of what may be done if these assets are not properly managed; in respect of assets outsourced to foundations, such an option may no longer exist. But even more trouble is that they are trying to outsource an incredibly large part of the national wealth, and now they are trying to carry out facilitations through a tax package that are also offering benefits in connection with the foundations' strange, opinionary or even speculative activities, so it is not enough to save a large part of the national wealth, even who is going to manage it under strange circumstances or just behind the curtain, can do so with a greater profit margin, obviously in the belief that he can already keep this profit or use it for his own purposes. We will, of course, destroy this illusion after the 2022 election if the government of a national unity stands up. Of course, it is not worth opening a methodological debate on these methods, and obviously we will review this madness within the framework of the rule of law, but we will override it, but at the same time I would like to note that the rounding will not stand up again, so that is what has come up in Hungary with regard to taxation. I have examined last year's budget and examined the draft, and I see, Mr State Secretary, that they intend to collect some 400 billion more in terms of VAT revenue in Hungary in the next period than in the previous period. I think it would be worth discussing what type of VAT payments are expected to make this surplus. Do you think that, in terms of the already charred population, instead of making allowances according to the margin of the budget, you would like to collect even more taxes in the form of VAT? Obviously, Mr Secretary of State, you could say that corporate contributions will compensate for the greater burden placed on the population, but what we see when we look at the budget is that we see a sum of well over HUF 4000 billion in VAT revenue expectations, and we see, say, a 300-400 billion in corporate income expectations, so there is about ten times the difference in scale. Secretary of State, Hungary's budget lacks large companies, multi-company tax payments. On the other hand, you're pushing a hundred billion-dollar grant to these companies. I'm interested in your personal opinion that the Audi has received a 1.2 billion-dollar grant agreement in recent weeks. We can flip this any way we want, but this big multi-company got 1.2 billion. In the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprise segment, we see the preferential loan in good times, but does the Audi need these transfers? To a company that takes out its profits in the order of a thousand billion dollars, and the various livestock generated after its profits from the country, typically untaxed? But are you sure these are the companies that we have to push non-refundable state subsidies? Is it not possible that there is an imbalance in this system and betraying national interests means that foreign multinational networks that are not in need are served in everything and that Hungarian companies in need are not given anything? I mentioned that they want to collect 400 billion more VAT in the next period, typically from the Hungarian population, so the collection of consumption-type consumption-related taxes is incredibly high. But there is an even more harsh item, and this is the issue of personal income tax waiting. In a year, we see that HUF 149 billion more personal income tax is expected, obviously from Hungarian people, as although foreign workers are being installed by hundreds of thousands, they are already present in a large number of sectors, but the Hungarian workers are still in a dominant position in the Hungarian market. We have to say that they want to collect some 149 billion forints more, but we should not evaluate this figure in itself, because this budget already includes the exemption of people under the age of 25. And if, with a careful calculation, this 25-year-old sjai exemption, which we would have drawn in the first round at the age of 28 or 29 years, but if we had only calculated it by 140 billion forints, which is not going to be included in the budget, and it has so far come to pass, we can see that the difference is HUF 289 billion, so they would like to make more in the form of taxes on Hungarian people. It would be worth exploring which economic projections, expectations, are on which they base this very brave forecast. If you think that the economy is really able to grow up, then why is the amazing tax burden paid by Hungarian people what they expect and why are they not giving discounts on the other side? So we understand that in some ways, let's say, they were trying to be nice to families by means of family tax incentives, and I have no reason to take this away, and even if we are on government, then I would very much like us not to narrow down the system of family tax incentives, but to expand it, to make it fairer. [[16.30]] I'll give you an example: a family tax reduction for two children, a few years without modification, a follow-up to inflation. I would very much like this to be a follower of inflation. But the fact is that in the form of a family tax allowance, one to two thousand or a few thousand forints are left with a family, and as regards their current support system, this multiple is pulled out of the other pocket, and the brutal errors of the tax system are included. On the one hand, the 27 percent basic food VAT and, more brutally, the 27 percent tax content on child rearing articles. This is an average, say, twice a month buyout, and I don't want to visualize that it consumes the entire family tax allowance, but it can certainly become a measurable counterpole. And if we add to this the elimination of the state leg of house savings, we add that due to the weak forints, we have had an amazing price increase in recent years, and the predictions are not at all that, let's say, the increase in basic foods would stop or even slow down, and we will certainly get to the point that although the Government of Hungary is trying to benefit from one side and let much more come out of the other pocket. While it could touch the VAT system, it could, if necessary, reduce a comprehensive VAT reduction against the increase in its own income expectations, re-introduce public support for housing savings, and if such tax packages have sacrificed revenues, it is quite certain that the benefits should not be given to the speculation activities of trust funds, but to Hungarian families should be reclaimed as a safety net for everyday survival. And if you have this safety net, then you can argue that the taxes on consumption are being turned on better or on other branches. For example, I would very much like it if the large multinational companies were to tax a little differently than the small ones, so we could move towards public burdens, but since this is the subject of another professional debate, and since the Government of Hungary has declared its intention to change its previous amendment to create tomatoes for the multinational companies, but it does not give Hungarian small enterprises a meaningful discount, I will not open this debate. On the other hand, I would like to conclude that the EU record-breaking 27 percent of VAT is being broken down in terms of child-rearing and basic food at this time. It is unworthy of a European national economy to tax child rearing in this form the most in terms of the entire continent. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-18-87	Thank you. For two minutes now, our colleague, Lőrinc Nacsa, has asked for the floor, KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-05-18-88	Thank you very much. A few clarifications, because half-percent tax cuts are regularly made by my opposition colleagues, but a two-percent reduction in the tax burden on employers and the tax burden on labour is reduced is often forgotten, but only the withdrawal of the vocational training contribution is regularly forgotten. My fellow Member from Csárdi asked a question about employment development. The good news is that 4 million 616 thousand people worked in March, which is a bigger number than the same period of the previous year, January-March, and I think it is a very good result. So we can keep our commitment: as many jobs as the virus destroys, we create. Of course, I have to add that we are not leading statistics on who has the original qualifications and what he works for, as we all have some original qualifications, and we are sitting here in Parliament arguing about tax laws. With regard to VAT on basic foods, he forgot to mention the range of milk, meat, eggs, fish or other products; and also that the law adopted here obliges the founder to appoint a property inspector. Thus, it is not, of course, true that there is no control of the new foundations that are created in this way, the public-interest trust funds. Antal Csárdi admitted that, yes, they are preparing for tax increases on several fronts. We still think we need to reduce the tax. I would say to my fellow Member, Mesterházy, that no one has said that this is a historic package. We said that it would fit into the line that has consistently reduced taxes on work for years, helps Hungarian businesses, helps Hungarian workers, helps Hungarian families; we want to continue to reduce taxes. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-18-89	Thank you. It's also two minutes away from Potocska, Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik.
u2021-05-18-90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Several points have been mentioned in the lead speakerial round that I think I need to respond to. One of the things that my fellow Member Nacsa said was that before 2010, employers had five types of taxes on the actions of previous governments. No matter what we call it, we could say that, and how many there are, the amount is the percentage of employers who are charged, the amount to be paid, but there is one thing I would like to draw attention to. In 2012, you changed the social security contribution, and it became a social contribution tax, and the difference between contributions and taxes you regularly forget that, as long as the contributions are paid, the tax is not paid. And, yes, I've had the answer once or twice, but this socho has a job that needs to be declared, but there's still a loophole: a contribution versus a tax, and it's not the same thing. You introduced this in 2012. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-18-91	Thank you. Our next speaker is Daniel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-05-18-92	Mr President, Dear House, I do not intend to go into the number war with my fellow Member Nacsa, but to react. With regard to the VAT reduction of basic foods, they were able to make some kind of reduction of 6-8 percent of a typical retired consumer basket. I don't want this to be taken away, I just claim that in a retirement couple's everyday life, this minimum relief is measured in a few ten, a few hundred forints per month. And I say that VAT should be reduced to 5% for the whole basic food range, and the same should be done for children's education articles. I find it infinitely misleading and otherwise false, the impression of the government's neoliberal approach to labour statistics. You know very well that these measurements are not suitable for what you wish to suggest. When you talk about 4 million 600 000 employees, you know very well that the Statistical Office counts among the employees involved, who had at least an hour's work or work-like activities per week, including those student workers who sometimes, say, in a multi-company drugstore, acquire some sort of allowance. But they also report to those who have an employment relationship, but let's say because of Covid, they were sent to an emergency break, and they basically have no income whatsoever. They report those who have encountered a very narrow unemployment benefit system, but have not yet been able to reintegrate into the labour market, but have encountered some kind of employment replacement service, at least from a distance. There is also a continuous and active debate on why a good part of them should be reported here. The difference between what Congressman Nacsa said and the reality is about a 700-800 thousand people, according to our knowledge. Of course, I would very much like it if so many people worked in Hungary, but you know it, and I know it's not true. This may show well for the purpose of stabilizing its own camp in the bubble of opinion in which pro-government people live, but those who know Hungarianism see that unfortunately not so many people are working in Hungary. Rather, I recommend to your attention that more than 40 percent of our countrymen, 40 percent of our countrymen, have had either a direct decrease in their monthly income since the outbreak of the epidemiological emergency or a decrease in the income of their family members. So about 40 percent of people feel they have to make less money than they did a year ago. On the other hand, when Minister Varga stood out, he may have posted a Facebook post on the Fidesz site today or today, and there he said that the whole of Europe has been put at a step disadvantage against Hungary, or we have taken a step advantage, it is a question of approach, because here the biggest economic growth in Europe is worth meeting with the Hungarian reality, and to see that the Hungarian people's income in typical Hungarian living situations has unfortunately not increased, but has decreased in many cases compared to the previous year. We also see that when calculating the labour force statistics, it would be appropriate to revise this rule for at least one hour a week, or not to use this statistics, to make one of your own. [[16.40]] It's a bit like when one of the ministers stands up and says that the average salary in Hungary is already over 400 thousand forints. So if in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, where one of my family's branches comes from, they would tell me this, I'm not sure it's just gonna be a laugh, but I'm sure it's not a big popularity increase. And it has also to be said that since the median data came out, they have managed to hide them for many years, but now they are available again, it can be seen that the difference between the average you mentioned and the median value that gives you a slightly better approximation and gives you a little better understanding. But we also see that there is probably a gap between the number of people employed and what you have said. We are simply asking that you take a little back from the intensive presentation of the production report, because in Hungary, the sober majority knows that these data, which are made out of the mouths of government ministers or representatives, unfortunately do not meet with reality. But we would very much like real productive debates to be held on these issues. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-18-93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the national secretary of state if you'd like to respond. [[Izer Norbert nodds.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-18-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, I'd like to respond to some of the points. At the beginning of the debate, it was said that we would try to stay on the subject, but we did turn a little bit, but I try to respond in detail to the items in the tax package. First of all, to Mrs Potocska's point of view, thank you for considering the package of proposals eligible for most of it. He highlighted a few points, and it actually became a hit topic, as I see it, the foundation of public interest, he and several Members mentioned the same topic. Here, let me draw attention to what Congressman Nacsa has said, that if we hadn't touched the legislation, there would have been no taxable person for these new foundations, because they have just been created by legislation. Therefore, the corporate tax liability of these foundations had to be established. And in order to ensure that these foundations, such as the civil society organisations that are now operating, and the foundations, have the same benefits that the Members have just mentioned, had to do with the tax and tao benefits. These foundations receive exactly the same benefits as any civil society organisation operating today. So, in fact, we have created an equal playing field in order not to put these university foundations at a more disadvantage than other civil society organisations. To mention that this definition is the most included in the tax bill, it is a little shady because, in fact, these legal institutions have now had to be incorporated into the legal system, because they have not existed so far, they have just been established by the recently adopted law. Mrs. Potochka forgot that the flat-rate tax was supposed to be introduced now to acknowledge our cataclysmic failure. Let me indicate that the kata is more popular than ever, so more people use the kata tax than at the end of last year, now 430,000 choose the kata. So it didn't work out the opposition's idea that crowds here might migrate from the kata, and crowds would leave this tax, and that they would end up on the side of the road. In fact, 80 percent of the catapult changes were already indicated. I think he'd be happy with a lot of catty if he could bill a contractor $3 million. This affects a small layer of catapults, especially those who do not sell to individuals, so they do not live on the market, on private customers, but have a partner. There's very little of this among the catholics. So it wasn't them who were hit by this change, but the companies that were otherwise taking advantage of the katás were now charged with a tax and, let's say, tens of hundreds of clicks instead of employment. However, it is very important to mention that it is important for the self-employed, to whom this amendment has now been introduced, to take another incentive step in the tax system, because they may already have a high kata. So here we are talking about those who are part-time engaged in this individual entrepreneurial activity, and they may be working for an hour or two a week. So for them, the lot of 25,000 or 50,000 kata can be high. We suggest that they consider this tax, and we think that with a tax-free rate, it is worth helping them get back to work. Congresswoman asked for a tourist tax exemption. This discount will remain until the end of the emergency, or this is the possibility that private individuals will not have to pay for it. Otherwise, the government is constantly examining the way this works, but in the current legislative text, this measure will remain until the end of the emergency. Congressman Mesterházy also mentioned foundations of public interest. I think that there I have reported in quite detail that these institutions receive exactly the same benefits as the other civil society organisations currently operating for public purposes. In fact, I would add that the regulation of civil society organisations is more favourable, because if civil society organisations do economic activity and have to pay taxes, they can also benefit from a discount. This does not apply to these public-interest foundations which perform public-service tasks, so in fact public-use NGOs have more favourable taxation and can even collect 1 percent, unlike these public-service trusts. Congressman Varju began by having technical comments, but then we went a long way, and it will be difficult to find the points that are linked to the tax package. He said that tax reductions should be sought in this package of legislation. Here, let me remind you that, in fact, for over a year now in the crisis, we have been constantly taking government regulations in order to grant tax incentives to sectors that can or cannot bear the greatest burden. Since March last year, we have left over a thousand billion forints of tax relief at businesses and individuals. So I think that we do not necessarily need to look for huge tax cuts in this package right now, because they are still in force today in many cases, tourism, catering, so tax relief is still in force in many sectors today, so there is no need to pay employment benefits or employment taxes. 150,000 kata entrepreneurs did not have to pay the sum of the itemary kata for months. Last year there was a socho reduction during the year, at the beginning of the year, and we supported tourism with the benefit of SZÉP cards, so we increased the framework double, the favourable tax framework, and the tax rate decreased by about half. I think that they should be taken together and looked at when we talk about tax reductions. Congressman Varju has indicated that we should reduce socho again this year. Let me remind you of the content of the VKF agreement, which the government has been following in recent years. The agreement does not fix a reduction in the rate on an annual basis, so it does not say that the tax should be reduced gradually every year, but that it is subject to a condition, precisely to ensure that this tax reduction is predictable and sustainable. This condition is linked to a real wage increase, so it requires a wage increase, a nominal wage increase in the economy, and it needs to be adjusted by the rate of inflation. So the percentage of real wage increases is what we're looking for. And if this condition is not met, this tax reduction is not yet possible. And that's what we're going to keep monitoring when this real wage increase is going to happen. With regard to the crypto devices, you mentioned, Congressman, that you consider it a man's job. I refuse to do so. We have looked at international practices, and I think that, despite this and also a good, forward-looking measure that we have taken. On the opposition side, many of its representatives seem to be a speculative tax rule or tax relief. I think that life may be a little past the ladies and gentlemen of Congress, the crypt device is part of the life of today's youth. Maybe there's a speculative element in it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's all there is!]] It is also apparent from the exchange rate movements that it can make extremely large movements. But today's youth is practically living in it, so not dealing with it and ignoring it, I think it's a mistake. So it is worth going around this topic. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And the regulation does not undertake that we are trying to establish the regulation of the crypto devices here, it is not the Ministry of Finance nor the jurisdiction of the tax area, but we have now established only tax relations. We believe that the budget will receive a much higher amount of tax revenue from this system of rules, because now it is not necessarily necessary to enforce this income abroad if someone wanted to legalise it or tax it abroad, but it can also be done at favourable rates in Hungary. [[16.50]] And it is very important that in the content of the Crypto asset's income it should already be a capital income, which is what the tax bill suggests, in fact, that we tax these assets at a rate similar to that of capital income. Also, Congressman Varju referred to the increase in taxes. Let us not forget that, after the crisis, we had to restore the state of the budget, and it took enormous efforts to stabilise the budget, which required separate taxes. So, not a general tax increase, but a targeted one, where the capacity to bear the burden allowed it, introduced special taxes, which, of course, resulted in an increase in taxes, which, by the way, has been gradually reduced ever since. If I count, it's only nine taxes less than then from 2018, so I think we're making very nice, lap steps in this area as well. It has also been said that venture capital and the benefit of the stock market may again be a speculative discount and that we support companies that do not know how to support speculation. Let me also point out that venture capital, by definition, is actually taking a higher risk, but it plays a fundamental role in research and development, in helping innovative firms, and capital markets and stock markets have a huge role to play in the dynamism of an economy, I believe that these should not be ignored. It would therefore be difficult to call the stock exchange and venture capital investors speculative in general. Congressman Csárdi also began by saying that the current tax package was weak. Let me refer back to the thousand-billion-dollar tax reduction that we have been through and which benefits are currently in force, and let me still take advantage of this opportunity that the policy of tax reduction that we have been pursuing has been a predictable and sustainable tax reduction policy for years. It would be relatively easy to enter the ground with a huge tax reduction and to destroy the stability of the budget; we chose not this path, but a much more difficult, much more working path: a sustainable and predictable long-term tax reduction, one of which is covered by whitening and economic whitening. This is why it is not possible to create a budgetary margin overnight, but to gradually whiten the economy over the years. From the previous twenty-some percent we reduced the rate of VAT to below 7 percent, so we have achieved very significant results and revenues, as Congressman Nacsa said, from online cash registers, online billing, EKÁER-type measures. Mr Csárdi also indicated that the minimum wage should be increased more and referred to the possibility of an interim increase of 1 per cent. Once again, we forgot that when the six-year wage agreement started, we were talking about a 15% and 25% minimum wage increase, a condition for employers' side, or a condition for employers'. And let us not forget that the minimum wage in the economy is becoming less and less relevant. Of course, there are always those who receive this income, but it was already apparent in the six-year wage agreement that when the 25 percent minimum wage increase was made, a wage rise wave swept through the economy as a whole, so in practice, in the majority of the economy, wages are not determined by the minimum wage, but by the much higher wages. So you have to look at the standard wage level. If we compare it to 2010, the average wage there was 200,000 forints, now it's over 400 thousand forints, so the average wages have practically doubled. If I look at the real value of net earnings, so how much more the earnings are worth, we are also talking about a 50 percent increase, so we are talking about a 1.5-fold increase. So instead of a 1 percent minimum wage increase, it is worth watching this 50 percent real wage increase. Congressman Csárdi also indicated that taxing crypto devices does not help the population. Yeah, it helps the population. We are very firmly of the opinion that very many individuals have crypto savings. Market players and those who are internationally recognised in the crypt world have tried to trace the world's crypt society, and in the case of the Hungarian crypt world we can talk about a circle of about 300 billion, so 300 billion krypto assets are currently estimated; we would like to shift this into a bed where they face fair, transparent taxation. Member Csárdi also raises for many times the reduction in VAT on basic foods, and Mr Z. Karpat has also joined this. It should be seen that hundreds of billions of forints may result in a tax reduction or tax loss of thousands of billion forints in the budget if we reduce the VAT on all basic foods and also see that consumer prices are not determined by the VAT rate. We have repeatedly said here in Parliament at all forums that demand-supply, weather conditions, international trade rules affect prices more than the VAT rate; with a VAT key at a certain moment, perhaps once you can influence prices, but not in the long run. We believe that VAT reductions should be made only in a targeted, very conscious and limited way to certain sectors, and that a general VAT reduction is an extremely expensive and inefficient way of redistribution. That is why we believe that this device can only be handled with caution and caution. The multi-key tax has also been mentioned by Congressman Csárdi. We talked about this relatively much. In my view, the best presentation, in practice, of a single-key, proportionate tax system combined with a family discount, is that we can continue to support families with this increasing tax reduction. Families now receive more than HUF 360 billion each year, and more and more tax revenues come in by enforcing this rule. How is that possible? The fact that the tax system is simple, transparent, does not discourage performance, so it does not have the effect that someone at the step or the progressive tax system may stop working at the end of each key, or that they may be paid in their pocket from then on; it therefore brings transparent, clean, fair relations in the tax system, and it is also associated with additional tax revenues, since it is worth sleeping in peace if there is virtually one of the lowest taxes in the EU. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm also regarded the crypt as a tax benefit for companies and individuals for speculation purposes. Here I referred to the fact that taxation or this income is subject to the same treatment as capital income, and that this system is not more favourable than the taxation of capital incomes now. Capital incomes are extremely mobile incomes, it is relatively easy to tax them legally abroad, so capital incomes are harder, more different, more taxed than anything else, it is actually a suicide strategy for all countries, because they will not be taxed there, they will not be taxed in that country. I think that the Hungarian economy will only win if these capital incomes are spilled out here in Hungary. As Congressman Nacsa has indicated, the reduction of 0.5 per cent, the reduction of 2 per cent, let us not forget the integration of the 1.5 per cent vocational training contribution into the socho, and thus the 2 per cent tax reduction will be achieved, that the 1.5 per cent vocational training contribution will disappear and the rate of the socho will be further reduced by 0.5 per cent. I think that this is also a huge achievement, that in the midst of such a global economic crisis, it is not that the government may not be able to do these tax cuts, but that we continue to believe that the tax burden of work must be reduced constantly. Congressman Z. Kárpat has also indicated that the tax burden on work is not greatly reduced enough. We started from 48.2 percent a few years ago, and now we have 42.2 percent of these taxes. This might be a little short, and it can be said that there is still room for reduction, I agree, so we have set ourselves a 40 percent tax wedge, which would be a huge achievement if we could achieve it, but we can only approach this limit in practically years, with systematic work, and with this 42.2 and the reduction that we have achieved in recent years, we are beaters and generally gold medalists in this tax reduction competition, so the rate of tax burden on labour is the highest in Hungary. And we still don't want to stop here, so we'd like to continue. Mr Z. Mr Carpathi also indicated that we would like to collect more tax on VAT and collect more personal income tax. That is, of course, the way in which an economy is growing. If the economy expands by four whole percent or five whole percent, i.e. at a rate of between 4 and 5 percent, as we expect it to do in the coming years, then the result is that consumption is much higher and wages increase, so the amount of wage taxes will rise at the same rate, I would stress. [[17.00]] Therefore, there is an increasing and ambitious increase in tax revenue because the growth of the economy makes this possible. The other point is that we can generate increased tax revenues at falling rates, and that is the whitening of the economy. So we do not want to collect taxes or increase tax revenues from the population, not from the public, but from fraudulent taxpayers, from the activities of tax fraudsters and from reducing the black economy. By the way, on this trip, we have been able to achieve very good results again over the past few years. As I said, the 21 percent of the budget is now below 7 percent, we are better than Germany and the vast majority of Western European countries. Mr Kárpát also mentioned the VAT on children's education articles in addition to basic food for many times. We also have the same position here that we must use this tool very carefully, so this is not the best way to support families, by the way, is an extremely expensive way. There is still one small thing that we have said to Mr Z. Carpát many times that the EU directive also prohibits this tax reduction, so in the case of a harmonised tax it is relatively difficult to use this tax reduction. I am sorry that Mr Z. Kárpát cannot follow this debate, but he has said again for many times that we do not tax the multinationals in Hungary and that their tax payments are practically lacking in the budget. I would suggest that we always put business tax revenues on top of the tao, always place corporate payments on employment, so also the socho amounts, and then there is a much more massive number in addition to multis' tax payments. Let's always put it next to him that the taobe payment is what it is because in fact, many businesses are not subject to the tao. I do not know that Mr Z. Kárpat is able to say another tax system where SMEs are supported as much as in the Hungarian tax system. After all, they have a flat-rate tax system that is even more favourable in the current package, optimized for self-employed people, where the smallest have created a catapult, where there are 430,000 people, and there will be 50,000 of them, which is again a much more growth-friendly and more favourable tax than tao. So to say that we do not support the small ones, this does not stand the test of reality, because half a million businesses, and even if I add the individual entrepreneurs, more than half a million businesses are taxed on a much more favourable tax system than tao. So I suggest you think about it. My last comment to Mrs Potocska, who in her speech indicated that in 2012 the social security contributions had been renamed to Socho, and what a crappy thing had happened there. I indicate that social security benefits have always been based on individual contributions. So when it was called social security contributions, the individual contribution paid by an individual was the basis for any benefits, as is the case today, so there was no change in that. The change of name actually followed the fact that this is a tax that enriches the general income of the central budget. And thank you very much for your valuable contributions and support. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-18-95	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. With all due respect, my fellow Members are welcome and I would like to say that we have the opportunity to present the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows the XXXIII of 2016 on the state project evaluation relationship and the amendment of certain related laws. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/16217. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Szabolcs Ágostházy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-18-96	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The government considers it a priority that EU funds bring the greatest possible added value to the development of Hungarian businesses, families and settlements. In order to achieve our goals, it is essential to have the right regulatory and institutional framework. The 2014-2020 programming period is a real success story in Hungarian development policy, and based on the data, we have fulfilled our mission. We have done more than 28 EU averages in terms of drawdowns, and Hungary is also leading in the V4 dimension, since 62 percent of our framework has been called from the European Commission so far. The level of support requested is also high, it stands at about 168 percent, which essentially proves that the aim of Hungarian development resources and the policy objectives chosen reflect the needs of Hungarian society and economy. The recovery and resilience plan, a new financing instrument for the European Community, was submitted to the European Commission on 11 May, which is an important milestone for EU development as well. As of this year, not only the new development period will begin, but we will be entitled to use another HUF 2511 billion of development resources as part of the recovery and resilience instrument that mitigates the effects of the coronal virus epidemic. As I mentioned on the 22 March Policy Day for the Use of EU Resources, in order to make effective use of development resources, we will keep our well-established institutional system in the next development cycle, the effectiveness, transparency and independence of which, in addition to the results, have been confirmed on several occasions by the European Commission. Based on the good practices of this institutional system, we would like to ensure that RRF, i.e. the recovery and resilience instrument, is effective and transparent and professional mechanisms, which are extended by this bill that we are discussing today. In the future, it has become necessary to draft and amend a number of legislation, and we expect that, although we will continue discussions with the European Commission, we have a very realistic chance of obtaining a Council decision that will also underpin the implementation of the recovery plan in August. Today, as the first pillar of joint work, we are proposing to amend the law governing the operation of the public project evaluation system, which concerns one of the essential functions of the tendering system. Honourable Members, Dear Parliament, The content of the aid applications submitted by local and regional authorities and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises has been criticised by public project evaluations since 2016. The system of nearly 1700 experts provides the conditions for an objective, transparent and independent evaluation of each project without the interest of market participants. The Hungarian project evaluation system was also examined by the European Commission and found its operation in order. A public project evaluation may be a person who meets the requirements of the legislation, i.e. the fundamental rights of the public body, in addition to several other professional criteria, this is also one of the guarantees that it can perform its activities in this respect independently of market interests. State project evaluators shall have at least three years of professional experience. Currently, they are classified according to 56 thematic areas, and their skills, their suitability for this task are decided in each case by a committee of five, and for projects corresponding to each theme area, we select the evaluators from this database and from a list on a draw basis. The system has been properly built, cost-effective over recent years and is objective and fully independent thanks to the selection system. With the existence of a public project evaluation system since 2016, it has already been able to carry out more than 90 thousand evaluations. Based on good experience, there was a need to extend the role of the public project evaluation system. On the basis of the legislative amendment under consideration, the role of the public project evaluators will be extended, in addition to the content assessment, to the technical control of public procurement procedures, thereby helping to make the most effective use of the resources from each EU fund and the recovery and resilience instrument. [[17.10]] By extending the public project evaluation function, it will be possible to involve professionals in the control of public procurement who can carry out the task at the same high level as managing authorities. As a result, public procurement controls will become faster and more efficient, so that the available resources can be used more quickly and more efficiently, while further increasing transparency. Our goal is to draw the last HUF due to Hungary and to bring it to the service of the Hungarian economy as soon as possible. The increase in efficiency is now of particular importance at the beginning of the new programming period and with the emergence of the recovery instrument, especially because with the emergence of new funds, new projects will appear in thousands of sizes, which, as appropriate, will also result in a further increase in the number of public procurements. It is therefore necessary to broaden the scope of the law in order to apply the State project evaluation system to the technical control of public procurement of projects from EU sources. With regard to the technical control of public procurement, a separate tender will be launched for the performance of the evaluation tasks for public procurement, so both the application and the applicant's data sheet should state that the application is intended to assess the content of the application and to carry out a public procurement evaluation. The form of the activity to be performed should also be included in the framework contract concluded with the applicant after acceptance of the application. All of these conditions are created by the bill before us. In the same way, we want to allow public health services providers to have a public project evaluation relationship. In doing so, we are creating the possibility of re-entering the Evaluators' pool of experts who have worked as a former civil servant. The amendment also proposes to speed up evaluations. With a technical solution, we will be able to speed up the evaluation work by another 3 days, thus the amendment of the law will further improve the lead times of the evaluations. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, One of the key tasks of the government is that European Union funds serve Hungarian settlements, businesses and families with the greatest possible added value. In order to achieve the social and economic policy objectives for the programming period 21-27, an efficient and transparent institutional system, accurate and consistent implementation and continuous monitoring are also necessary. Transparency is an essential condition for maintaining an independent evaluation system, for smooth and rapid evaluation of proposals and for technical monitoring of public procurement in the implementation phase. It is a great step forward in supporting the institutional system if the managing authorities can entrust the technical control of public procurement to a competent, professional and competent evaluator from the list of experts of the State Project Assessments. These experts will examine the technical content of public procurement with an independent eye and support the implementation of the project with their objective professional opinion. In addition, it is at least as important that the process of controlling public procurement should be smooth, as compliance with legal deadlines must prevail. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary is prepared to use the resources of the next development policy cycle on the basis of the experience and work of excellent professionals. This will continue to serve the strengthening of Hungary. I trust that the expansion of the state project evaluation system will receive the support of this House, and we can trust not only in the support of the pro-government factions, but also in view of the fact that this is an objective, truly independent and transparent system, so we sincerely ask the support of the opposition factions, especially given that in the coming years, given that the current development policy cycle will be a sweet burden on our institutional system for another three years, the new development cycle will start and the recovery fund's asset system will come into play as a third element. This presents government bodies with a task in which project evaluators will provide very useful assistance in the technical control of public procurement. Thank you with all due respect. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-18-97	Thank you very much, Szabolcs Ágostházy Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Csöbör Katalin, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2021-05-18-98	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The coronal virus epidemic and its economic impact have fundamentally changed our daily lives, and it is therefore necessary to modify the state project evaluation system in line with the needs of the next programming period. The assessment of the content of applications for support from EU funds is a public task for those with a public project evaluation relationship, which is transparent, impartial and independent of the interests of market actors. The bill also aims to extend their scope, as it is known that our country has achieved outstanding results during the settlement of the salaries of people working in health care, and that the health service of public healthcare providers thus established is currently an obstacle to the establishment of a public project evaluation relationship. Previously, the persons concerned were still within the scope of the law, so it is appropriate to settle their situation and to give them the opportunity to re-establish a legal relationship. The main purpose of the amendment is also to ensure that the public project evaluation system can be used for the technical control of public procurement of projects that are to be implemented through the recovery and resilience instrument and, therefore, the scope of the law is supplemented by this criterion. The assessment concept will also be amended depending on the change in its tasks, and the application form should also specify which type of activity the evaluator would like to apply for. The type of activity shall also be included in the contract concluded with the applicant. After years of experience, it is not worth limiting the valuer by, for example, not starting the evaluation work for 3 days, but by giving him the opportunity to start the activity after the assignment. It is practical and serves as a service when the list of experts includes, in addition to the name and subject matter of the evaluator, the activities under which it carries out expert tasks, so it is worth publishing as well as other data. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This is T/16217. Legislative bill No.3 serves to increase efficiency and ensure transparency, which helps our economy to return to growth. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-18-99	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Csöbör. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-05-18-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Objectivity, independence, transparency, impartiality, efficiency: beautiful words, but behind the words are the actions by which the fidesz government of the last 11 years exactly empties these words and their meaning. We can talk about any project evaluation team here, and we know that independence is out of your league, because it wouldn't be the buddies and the oligarchs close to the government that would win those state projects, the investments that seem to not bother you at all. Well, here, on the opposition side, it does bother me that the same circle is constantly winning public procurement. Now, with regard to the use of resources for the EU budget cycle 2021-27, you want to involve groups of experts, who are completely independent and are now paying maximum attention to all public funds, this relationship is clearly nothing but the continuation of their policies. We have said several times that the first thing we should start with is that they are finally making a substantial contribution to the Public Procurement Act, and they are using additional tightenings, and they are not allowing, for example, hundreds of millions of investment, these projects, public investment through so-called restricted tenders, or the management of a specific circle in a closed circle. [[17.20]] So, basically, the opposition always has a problem with investment. Now that you're listing these fantastically sounding words, that now it will be completely objective, independent and transparent here, we all know very well that no, the last 11 years have proved that. After 2022, another world comes. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-18-101	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-05-18-102	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Member here was already preparing for his speech in the pre-election chair, but what she said here had little to do with the specific bill. So he said that the old world would come back, that they wanted to bring the world back here before 2010, that from 2022 it would be a different world. Well, what happened to EU development money before 2010? As a result of the robbery privatisation, 192 state-owned, mostly profitable companies were privatised to mates, comrades, foreign capitalists who tried to guarantee that they would keep the workforce. This was not possible in Dunaújváros either, Ferenc Gyurcsány privatized Dunaferr, and then the privatisation contract had to be amended nicely, as a number of employees were sent in 2006. That was the first amendment. And what happened in the 2007-2013 development cycle? 16 percent of them were invested in economic development. Your great use of EU money, called efficient, was that only 16 percent of the money was spent on economic development, and they machined with the extremely harmful PPP schemes, while only on the two M5-M6 motorways, if it had been built from credit and not from PPP, the Hungarian budget would have saved HUF 2853 billion if these two motorway investments had been made from loans and not in PPPs; or perhaps a slightly more rational design of the EU development cycle, and not only wanted to spend 16 percent on economic development. On the other hand, during the 2014-2020 development cycle, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State, that, although it has been completed long ago, but it is still going on, 60 per cent has been allocated to economic development. These EU funds have been spent on small and medium-sized enterprises, economic development investments, value-enhancing, capacity-enhancing technologies and developing investments that serve Hungarian workers, the Hungarian SME sector and the Hungarian economy as a whole. So I understand, Congresswoman, that you are keen to work with all your might to bring the world before 2010 back to the government, but, well, let's see what happened in drawing on EU development money, if we look at this area alone. On the left is the biggest corruption scandal of all time, said the EU Anti-Fraud Office [[Anita Kőrösi: Elios?]] , more than 140 billion forints were stolen in connection with Metro 4. You want to bring this world back, and you're telling me it's gonna be a different world? You're hurting those project evaluators here now, and you're getting into them with a pair of feet, respected civil servants, government officials, and now you're going to adopt the bill by employees who are in the service of health care, who appreciate their professional knowledge, engineers, lawyers, economists, doctors, professionals working in many other fields, and you're telling them, Congresswoman, that they're unfit for their work. [[Anita Kőrösi: I didn't say that!]] You told them they were being cheated on in all sorts of ways, and I don't know how they're machinating with public procurement. The Hungarian Public Procurement Act is one of the strictest in Europe, the Hungarian Public Procurement Act. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] And you are not arguing with us, Madam honourable Member, but you are arguing with the European Commission, which has carried out the verification that the State project evaluation system has been in Hungary since 2016, and the European Commission has carried out its monitoring in this regard. More than 90,000 evaluations have been carried out since 2016 and the Commission has found that this system is effective, transparent and independent. Therefore, the honourable Member is not arguing with us, but with the European Commission conducting the inquiry. And by the way, when you attack this system, you attack the people who work in it, the 1700 people behind the expert contract, the expert who evaluates these important projects. That is the case, honourable Member. And while we see that there is a need to restart in the current budget negotiations starting tomorrow, in the framework of the economic re-launch action plan, there is also a majority of HUF 7300 billion of domestic resources, because you always say that we are developing the Hungarian economy from the European Union's charity, or that the Hungarian economy produces good numbers. We can never welcome the success of the Hungarian economy, Hungarian workers and employers, because you always think that this is some kind of charity from the European Union; no, this money is due to us. And the greater part of the economic re-launch action plan will come from domestic sources, honourable Members. And yes, there is a healthy and strong Hungarian economy, because until 2019-20, until the beginning of the coronal virus epidemic, Hungarian workers, employers, economic policy and government parliamentary decisions made it possible to create a shock-proof, healthy, strong economy that could withstand this crisis. And now it is important to include these resources in the re-launch, which Mr. State Secretary also spoke about, because in the seven-year EU financial cycle starting in 2021, the resources due to Hungary and the resources allocated from the recovery fund to Hungary are used primarily to re-launch the economy, to support innovation, to modernise higher education and for environmental protection purposes. Tell me what you'd like to cross off the list. So, let us not spend on higher education, let us not spend on the Hungarian SME sector and on re-launching and developing the economy, not on environmental goals or supporting innovation? Because when you attack this system, you also attack these goals. I am asking you not to attack the priorities and goals of which Hungarian businesses and Hungarian people will be the winners, and not the experts who participate in the public project evaluation system, but rather to thank them for the 90 thousand assessments that have been carried out in recent years, on a professional basis, effectively, transparently and independently, as the European Commission has stated. It is therefore necessary, for example, for technical content, as Minister of State has said, to involve further project evaluations with expertise, and to involve people under the service of health care, who can help Hungary to be the leading rider in Europe, the most successful, the most efficient and the most resource-efficient, because I think this is in the common interest of all of us, the common interest of the Hungarian nation, the interests of Hungary and the interests of all Hungarian people. We are asking you to support this. Their right to not support them is the right of their heart to insult these people who appreciate these projects; yet I think that we should speak more in the voice of thanks and say that together, together, we will be able to restart the economy, just as the fight against the epidemic and the campaign for vaccination could have succeeded in joining forces. You are still excluded from the cooperation, and this may be the plan, but we still believe that Hungary needs to be restarted and that the necessary resources must be provided for this. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-18-103	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-05-18-104	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. The proposal on the status of public project evaluators and the amendment of certain related laws seems to be a technical amendment which resolves legal gaps, initiates formal and substantive changes. It is about the professional qualification of projects by public administration employees, government officials and civil servants when spending EU money. I would like to say to you that what these people have done in recent times during the coronal virus epidemic is amazing. [[17 .30]] When I think about how many times an amending proposal was made just at midnight, then these people have practically been used, let's put it this way. But it has been, in fact, that the money has come, and it has to be appreciated that this money, this resource, is actually spent on. What is the current change about? In short, this assessment already covers public procurement, the technical content, as mentioned by Ms Lőrinc Nacsa, and the situation in which healthcare workers who are out of public employment can continue to be project evaluators in the future. So far, this is largely a professional proposal. But if we look behind the dry text, we can already discover that this system also strengthens one of the most shameful features of the Fidesz regime, intimidation. 'Cause who are the project reviewers? Government officials working in the public administration, specialized in knowledge, are truly excellent professionals in the field, but they are all subordinates. They are expected to classify the projects that most of the Kissing Companies close to Fidesz are behind. The question is rhetorical, but I assume: what guarantee is there that project evaluation staff will not be retorted if they write an opinion that is unpleasant for the Fidesz contractor? For example, they dared to write that Elios lamps equipped by Viktor Orbán's son-in-law are lame. Make no mistake. There is no doubt in my mind that all the experts evaluating the projects are honest, honest and I can say that they are working decently and well. But for their sake, what guarantee is there that they will not be intimidated by the people of power during the evaluation of a project? I mean, like I said, they're all state employees. If one of them does not write an opinion like Fidesz on a public procurement, for example, he may be dismissed overnight for some kind of reasoned reasons. And then not only will his relationship from work be terminated, but his relationship with the project valuer will also be terminated. It can be seen from this point that this system is not at all suitable for what I think would be its true function. It is difficult to talk about objectivity where the valuer is existentially dependent on the client of the evaluation. The position of the MSZP in relation to the project evaluation relationship has been consistent and consistent: we do not support it. This relationship is a consequence of the government's failed administrative policy, as the number of expert staff working in the public administration has been drastically reduced. It is quite clear that this proposal only seems to serve the effective use of EU funds. The reality is that both the project evaluation system and its current change are merely an illusion of compliance with the rule of law, which the MSZP cannot support. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-18-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2021-05-18-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of this proposal, my opposition colleagues have said all the points that give rise to criticism. I would like to approach this question from another aspect. When we wish to create legislation, in addition to defining the subject in which we wish to make some sort of proposal, the task of codification is an extremely important and extremely wide-ranging simulation. The area for which we intend to create a law should be pursued by establishing all kinds of hypotheses so that future potentially emerging needs can be met by the proposal. I note with regard to the law on the status of project evaluation established in 2016, that I do not think that a separate law should have been adopted otherwise, I would have been able to propose which law to apply it. But when it is born, we must respect and view it in this regard. Therefore, since the government's aim, with this proposal, has always been to establish a contractual relationship with professionals on the use of EU funds, no one should tell me that it could not have been possible to introduce a set of conditions in the drafting of the legislation so that, if there was any possibility, this law would also provide a solution and an answer to them. This proposal should not bring in health workers who have fallen out of public employment, because this status has changed to the extent that it had to be included in this proposal, but because no codificator has been able to come up with a terminology that can fit into it at the time. Because this profession is not determined by where they work, it is not determined by whether they are a private contractor or by some kind of public service relationship, but by what they need to understand. Only then did you create this with the view that, if possible, people outside the circle of friends would not be able to take part in this task. If you are pleased to see the vast amount of money allocated to this relationship from the EU framework and how much money can be allocated to these circles in this respect, then it is no wonder that they were very narrowly trying to define potential participants at the time. This original legislation consists of 16 paragraphs, now only 14 because between 2019 and today, in two years, 53 items in this extremely short legislation have been modified. 53 in 14 sections. Please tell me what has changed since December 2020, i.e. five months, which made today's amendments impossible to regulate earlier, so that today no longer has to be amended after 53 items 54, 55, 56 and God knows how many points! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is Parliament!]] The biggest problem for you, not just for you, for the whole government, is that there is such a level of dilettantism in codification, any wallet we look at, perhaps there is still some quality in the internal case, that people who are dealing with it are unable to simulate future potential opportunities and possibly introduce definitions that make the legislation even applicable in other circumstances. Because if there is this view, like yours, that it is always measured on a pharmacy scale, what kind of staff can benefit from it in relation to a proposal or a future law, it will, of course, bring in the same legislation every two months to amend it. What I can tell you is that it is possible to constantly derail Parliament, but very few in its work are able, not because of their lack of skills, not because of the lack of intelligence, but because of your confusing and confusing legislation, to follow the changes. Taxpayers are constantly spending a lot of money and we are wasting energy in the fact that there is a need to amend legislation that has not been seriously created and that has not been codified, and that is the result of this order that we need to deal with it over and over again. However, I would like to highlight this proposal from a different point of view. I am convinced that to use EU funds, the European Commission could have laid down many conditions during bilateral discussions that the Prime Minister did not really want to say to the public. I am convinced that this legislative amendment proposal is also intended to satisfy something that the Prime Minister has negotiated in the European Commission. I am convinced that with this new bill, they want to ensure that the European Commission, well, well, we are trying very hard to control these spendings, and we very much promise that not an internal circle will obtain all the resources by public procurement and generally achieve everything in gold prices, as is usually the case in Hungary, because everything here costs twice or three times as much as in the simple market. [[17.40]] You believe that with such legislative amendments you can prove that you want to use EU funds honestly. Let me tell you something to my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa. Controls for the use of EU funds, such as OLAF controls, and any kind of control at all, usually start much later than they pay a money, and projects are carried out. You know, it's been years before the start of checking a larger volume of investment from EU funds. It is because, under your governance, there have been, to a large extent, inappropriate uses under socialist governance, and the money cuts there have been shown by the Anti-Fraud Office or by those who control the spending of European public funds. But there will also be a comprehensive audit of all the investments and the spending made during your time. So don't even say that under your government, there wasn't one where you could find mistakes or even frauds, and don't even say it because we've understood in the last year that you'd rather not have called a source to make sure that spending was effective and served. So you have also done this, i.e. you have taken away from taxpayers the possibility of financing an investment not from everyday taxes, but from EU support. So I think that you, i.e. pro-government benches and left-wing benches, can't look at each other very much, because you are doing exactly the same wasteful activity with European resources, and technically, if this is actually being examined by a serious group of experts, then the effectiveness of this is very deplorable. And then I would also like to talk about the issue that my fellow Member, Zita Gurmai, raised, and that is that it is amazing that in the project evaluation relationship, people are asked to evaluate people who are dependent on the government they need to control their spending. Please, if an expert working in a public organization comes into this relationship, don't tell me he's an existentially independent man. If you had said that in order not to suspect that an expert working in a state institutional system, who is dependent on the government, I would have hired you to monitor projects carried out by the government, but rather external independent people who in no way depend on anyone in the government's hierarchy, I would have understood that. You don't even think, Mr. Secretary, that I'm against involving people with high professional potential in public organisations, so don't misunderstand. It is very right that the government wishes to involve all knowledge in the fact that project evaluations are really sound, but don't be angry, knowing your government mentality, I find it very difficult to imagine that a public or public service or health service relationship, or, for example, a university instructor who will no longer have a state status, but that is why the foundations are curators of state leaders, so their everyday activities have to do with the government, in any way these people will say against the government's expectations. Don't make me believe this, because this has been a problem in Hungary for decades! In Hungary, compliance is the first and most important moment and motif that people working for the state have. There is a lackey system, there is a system of unconventional respect for its superiors, which has basically weakened our society, and has actually taken away their ability to assert their interests. So it is unthinkable that any project valuer in such a home-style government activity will write down that an official of the government or an organisation entrusted with public procurement by the government did not do the work properly or in an appropriate value. You all know that most of the public procurement is won by oligarchs close to the Prime Minister and his circles, a very large part. I'm not talking about the number, I'm talking about the value, because this is when Lőrinc Nacsa says, oh, but 60 percent and 70 percent of small businessmen are involved. Yeah, only if you look at the value of how you relate to each other, it's not that rosy anymore. So as long as the use of EU and budgetary funds in public procurement is so widespread, do not think that any opposition representative does not think that those people working as project evaluators in systems operated by the state will not contradict. You have to admit, that's how it's gonna be. I'm not surprised. So don't get me wrong, I'm not surprised, because unfortunately, here in Hungary, especially in Hungary, the intellectual layer is very much playing to survive, it is very much trying to maintain the standard of living that has been acquired, very much to get their children out of their homes as decent schools and educated people, which is understandable, but they often make a lot of compromises. I think that with this institutional system in itself, they will not be able to achieve at home that people believe that EU funds have actually been used in terms of value and value for what they are destined for. I believe that the proposal is for compliance with the European Commission, and I do not think that these changes in themselves will make this legislation very effective. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-18-107	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Further speeches by Members are also possible. (No one's reporting.) I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Szabolcs Ágostházy, to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-18-108	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. The debate, although not long, I would say that it did not cause any surprises, because I expected a similar theme, but I am always surprised by the combination of misconceptions and untruths to be faced. But in order not to talk about beliefs and misconceptions, I try to respond substantially to some of their speeches. The fundamental mistrust of the government against the opposition is no surprise, but, if it is already referred to regularly, say, as public procurement or EU funds, the European Commission, I would like to draw your attention first in terms of public procurement to the Single Market Scoreboard, on the basis of which, in addition to many other policy assessments, the European Commission compares public procurement systems every year. Based on this scoreboard, while listening to you, I have opened it on my computer to perform significantly better than Austria, the Czech Republic or Spain, Italy, of the very large markets, and also behind us are Romania, Greece, Portugal and some other states. We fall into the same category as France, Germany or Benelux, for example. So we are discussing facts in which, if you do not believe in government actors, I recommend the European Commission's metrics to your attention. [[17.50]] By the way, if we have already discussed or commented on transparency and transparency, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary provides as much of the information available to the public as possible in terms of the visibility of public procurement and the publication of public procurement results and the publication of tender information: more than 90%. By the way, we are first at European level. If they refer to the freedom of competition, albeit in a different approach, with a circle, I would also draw your attention to the fact that, at European level, Hungary is publishing most of the calls for public procurement at TED on a pan-European level, in this publication system called Tenders Electronic Daily, which is also maintained by the Commission. So it is difficult to accuse us of not playing with open cards, and the Hungarian government would not be committed to the greatest competition possible. We are talking about things in which we have made significant progress in recent years. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the first half of February, the Hungarian Government adopted a decision, and I would also recommend that, in addition to EU funds, the Hungarian Gazette be seen, in which Hungary has committed itself to a clear development plan for the coming years, to how we intend to classify our public procurement system as one of the first ones, which is well-performing by the EU average. For example, how do we wish... By 2025, the Hungarian government undertook to reduce the Hungarian share to below 15 percent in terms of single-offer procurement. What may sound like a lot, but since we are going to do this, I report that by achieving this rate, we will be among the best five or six Member States in Europe. There are considerable misunderstandings, and let me put it back into an interpretation environment why we accept proposals from the public sector for public project evaluation and technical control of public procurement. There is a very simple reason why we want to ensure that market interests do not dominate. If this were to be out-of-state, it would be quite easy to find the evaluators and significantly increase the likelihood of market players being influenced. Although I did not comment on this in the Hungarian system or, if I understand your comments correctly, you are not fully friendly with the fundamental rights rule, you are not aware of it, after drawing out a random algorithm for the suppliers of each task, so we can also ensure that no one can identify until the time after the decision has been made who was involved in the evaluation of a particular project. Everyone sees such ten-digit characters, no public contracting authority or a market tenderer knows who is involved in the evaluation of the given tender or the evaluation of the project. So, if you like, in full protection, anonymity, in full protection of their integrity, we provide this opportunity to public project evaluators, and since this system has worked in recent years, we will also extend this option to technical control of public procurement. You are in the misunderstanding of all three opposition representatives who have commented that state employers have any chance of exerting pressure on project evaluators. This has neither legal nor technical potential: the head of a public body does not know specifically what projects his full-time employee is involved in evaluating. You know, of course, that you're in this set, in this list of experts, but you don't know any information about who, when, how many projects, you don't see the subject matter yet. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] I would like to draw your attention to further important information: not only do public project evaluators undergo national security screening, but also all the leaders from whom you assume pressure. Which, of course, implies that if anyone tried to put pressure on either the expert or the government leaders who commissioned him, they would commit a crime and risk penalties that no one would ever try to do on my experience. So, basically from a legal point of view, it is a well-closed and transparent system for enforcing guarantees. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] When public procurement is criticised, I often disagree with the opinions of the organisation to be named, but I suggest that you consult, among other things, Transparency International, who is difficult to accuse of bias towards the government; this is justified by our years of experience. At the same time, they described the adequacy of the Hungarian public procurement system in the report on the country in February of this year and confirmed that the Hungarian public procurement system is in line with the European norm system and practices. Once again, if you do not believe us, you should turn to the resources that are relevant to you, and you will find the same information at least in these eyes. What Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm said about why we did not adopt the law in 2016: the legal system is evolving, demands are evolving. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] We cannot say, by definition, for years in advance that the bill currently under negotiation will be in line with long-term, even decades of practice. I don't want to take away Congressman Nacsa's bread, but to accuse civil servants of dilettantism, to accuse codificators of incompetence, I don't think that's a good way to go. You may also be in a position of government, although I hope you will not be able to do so in the coming years when you will rely on experts who have the same role in a way that you consider to be dilettant, which, by the way, runs through government cycles. I don't think that's the right direction, especially because I've run a codification department myself for years. I know this job well, I appreciate your commitment, your professional skills. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm also mentioned that this new system will cost us dearly. It is estimated that in the coming years we will spend some HUF 300 million on this new activity. It's a dwarf money, although it's unthinkable for all of us in a personal family budget, but it's a small amount of money for the state as a whole. Especially if we add what amazing risks we can prevent by operating such a system. So I think it's a very, very good investment. We're going to turn Parliament into a law factory. Our democratic thinking is therefore diverse. I think that democracy in Hungary also works well because it is not the government who decides on the most important rules. If the legislative woman is against it, I suggest that she consider it in the next election. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] That another world would come after 2022? I think that, after 2022, a different world comes in many respects. For the sake of simplicity, in order to make it easier for all of us to keep it in mind, I will say round numbers: in 2021, with some HUF 2500 billion of development coming from EU-based sources this year. On the other hand, the national budget spends a lot more than 3300 billion resources this year. In the following year, the difference will be even greater, we will move some HUF 3000 billion from EU funds next year, the national budget will add HUF 3900 billion. Therefore, the Hungarian national budget is currently in such a situation because the economic performance of recent years produces this coverage. We can devote much more to building the country based on the results of recent years than the European Union can contribute to the development of the Hungarian national economy. I would remind you that in 2010, when the Fidesz-KDNP government took over the responsibility of the country's leadership, it was practically the country's development project that had an EU contract. There was no reserve that could be interpreted in the Hungarian national budget to develop from our own strength. The last 11 years have made such a difference in this respect that we are already making much larger developments from purely national sources compared to EU funds. [[18.00]] If I didn't take the macro numbers for the next few years, the Ministry of Finance's bread, but even if we're calculating our GDP growth, it doesn't seem to be unrealistic at all. And if the recovery fund has already been mentioned today, experts independent of us also calculate that the implementation of that national recovery plan alone will increase the growth of Hungarian GDP by about 1.5 percent after 2026, i.e. even after the closure of the projects. We are counting this on the basis of the European Commission's methodology, so I think that this is also an independent forum. Perhaps you have mentioned this several times, Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, that the European Commission must have forced us to make this amendment. As Secretary of State for Development in the European Union, I am responsible for the management and control of the negotiations on all EU funds, and the European Commission has never asked us to do so. I didn't ask your opinion about it. I think you will welcome it, because we are all on the side of transparency, but Hungary has not accepted any pressure that we would not agree with during the EU negotiations. Therefore, the recovery plan and the future operational programmes contain all the elements that are fully in line with the Hungarian government's goals, and the European Commission can also accept it. So in this respect, I am talking more about partnership with the European Union, I could not condemn any future Hungarian government to a subordinate role to this supranational institution. That doesn't fit in our thinking. So when the Hungarian government makes a decision, it does not do so because of violence, although this may be the default for opposition representatives, but we only cooperate on a partnership basis, along with many others with the European Union. As I understand it, there is no substantive debate between us in terms of the details of the regulation, but we are merely discussing matters of faith. With regard to the latter, I propose that data be made available, and I respectfully request the support of the bill on behalf of the Government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-18-109	Thank you very much, Szabolcs Ágostházy Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to the Fidesz MEP Attila Gelencsér, who has asked to speak after the agenda, who will give his thoughts in 5 minutes with the title of the reindustrialization of Kaposvár.
u2021-05-18-110	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Let me share a very fresh, crisp news: Hungary has signed a cooperation agreement with a German military company. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán received Armin Papperger, president of the German Rheinmetall automotive and defence industrial group at the Carmelite monastery on Tuesday, with whom they discussed the production of new generation infantry vehicles in Hungary, the research and development of the military industry, and Hungary's defence and economic reinforcement. I am pleased to hear this, Mr Parliament, because we really need the Rheinmetall to settle in Kaposvár. But to begin with, Kaposvár is a dynamically developing city, a county-righted city, the county seat of Somogyország; university city, bishop's seat, and has about 10,000 registered entrepreneurs and about 15 thousand industrial employees. Kaposvár is an investor-friendly city. The city has an excellent workforce. Your accessibility has improved significantly with the completion of road R67. We can talk about a good business environment, a not only national but also local investment promotion, obviously good quality of life, and also a range of renewable energies that are available, and very high-quality services that can be requested for those living there and those wishing to invest. That is, Kaposvár, by the way, is a city where it is good to live, but we can still have a sense of absence, and this may be in terms of the power of the local economy and its tax power. There are also historical precedents for saying such sentences about the power of the local economy. Obviously, all locals know that the privatisation and spontaneous privatisation after or before the change of regime have caused great damage to Kaposvár's economy. In addition, unfortunately, when left-wing governments ruled the country, the people who lived there could not count on help. Not so long ago, we have experienced a crisis, this financial and economic crisis in 2008-2009, and today we are just asking where Kaposvár's economy could be if entrepreneurs crippled by foreign currency loans, for example, had been given a moratorium on credit repayment, some form of reduction of contributions, tax reductions, or perhaps no increase in the burden of debt at that time. Not to mention on the previous agenda we talked about European resources, we discussed the fact that the European resource was almost unavailable to Kaposvár entrepreneurs before 2010, and not to mention domestic resources at all, because it was not available at all. And the thing I want to tell this House is that it's a matter of minutes before our industrial parks are full. I can now report too much demand for our industrial areas and our industrial parks. At the intersection of the M9 road and the now completed R67, we looked at a 170-hectare area, which would be ideal not only for short, medium, but also for long-term investor needs, for the business environment. For the sake of simplicity, let's call it an industrial park on Füredi Road, which we would like to achieve. And I have read today's news because the Rheinmetall military business has already registered here by about 10 hectares and calls for an additional 10 hectares of expansion. In addition, the custom, the experience, is that prospective suppliers are also located around it, i.e. 40 hectares of 170 hectares are practically easily sold. The thing is, I think Kaposvár needs a kind of industrial renaissance; more industries equal more jobs, equal higher wages. Obviously, the emergence of new industrial investments has a wage drive effect, increasing income-generating capacity, creating jobs; wages, tax revenue and quality of life are rising. It's closing time. The budget ahead of us now, as well as a number of legislative preparations that go before the government, may contain some details of the Kaposvár industrial park. I would like to ask this House and its members to support the establishment of an industrial park on Füredi Road in Kaposvár. I'm honored by your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-18-111	Thank you very much, Mr Attila Gelencsér, Congressman. I now give the floor to independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who has applied for a statement after the agenda:. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-18-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On March 11, 2019, very unusual events took place in the house of the country, when MP László Böröcz interpelled with Minister of Justice Pál Völner that, according to press reports, I was the lawyer of the home mafia, I worked for him, and people who spent their entire lives cramming their assets, buying apartments, using home mafia methods, were dumped out of their properties with my help. Then came Pál Völner, who said that according to press reports, I had prepared sales contracts that caused significant damage to property owners, and documents show that these cases were closely related to the housing mafia. At the same time, he told me that I was accountable to my constituents, and that the company where Jobbik's parliamentary representative worked had a marked number of evictions. Of course, from this interpellation and response, two things were true: that I was a lawyer and a Member of Parliament, and the rest were pure lies. [[18.10]] For two months, hundreds of articles talked about the fact that because of me, people had been put on the streets, that I had been involved in creating false contracts, and that I could tell more terrible statements. It's been two years since then, and I thought I'd report to the Parliament that if this series of false statements could have been the subject of an interpellation, what has happened in the courts since the complaints of the Member and the Secretary of State, because I can show you that the reason why the leading politicians are so viciously attacked by the pro-government press is because there are several judges in the court system who help them get away with prosecution. I don't say the names of judges who act fairly, because they do, but those who crush the law with two legs and support the people who are set up for the illegal way of life do. The Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The judges of the District Court conducted the proceedings fairly, as a result of which Erzsébet Török-Szabó, referred to by the State Secretary, apologized to me before the court and said that he had never said such things about me. Angéla Takács, who is also referred to in the articles as the sufferer of my activities, also apologized to me in court and said that he never said such things about me that appeared. Then Mrs. Mihály Fürst, who was supposed to be a victim because of my representation, told me that she never made statements to the press. The judge of the Central District Court of Pesti, David Elias, brought an end to the proceedings against those who committed crimes by saying that I, as a lawyer, had drawn up contracts that crippled people, was not capable of defaming honor. Well, if this isn't a good time, then what is it? ! Then the fair second-degree council annulled this and instructed him to proceed with the proceedings. This was in December 2020, and the Court of First Instance has never done anything about it. Then came Ádám Mészáros, judge of the Central District Court of Pest, who terminated the proceedings by saying that all the terrible statements that made me a home mafia were neither defamatory nor slanderous. Then came Krisztina Buri Edina, József Tamás Szabó and Gergely Béla Koós, the second-degree council of the Metropolitan Tribunal, who announced in their ad hoc decision that these offenders should not be held liable because, on the basis of freedom of expression, it was possible to restrict personal rights and to write such rights in the newspapers because it allowed people to know that I was a credible representative of the voters, that is, the judges of the Metropolitan Tribunal made a political declaration of their criminal decision. But if the judges of the Metropolitan Tribunal believe that there is no need to comply with the provisions of the Press Act, which concerns credible information, and that they may disclose false slanders about people without consequences, then they may not resent me, either, on the basis of freedom of expression, that I claim that they are judges in the service of the government, and they do not wish to observe their oath. Let's move on to civil lawsuits. A single time limit in civil proceedings is not respected by a single judge. They told me that anyone who has a legal representative cannot speak in civil negotiations in their own case, that is, they are doing everything they can to prevent me from speaking at all in those lawsuits where I have to account for these harsh statements. I can tell the Parliament's community that in the last two years only one piece of evidence could not be presented in the lawsuits, which would have supported these harsh and slanderous statements. This is the Hungarian press and this is the Hungarian court! Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi applauds.]]
u2021-05-18-113	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr András Aradszki, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, spoke with the title "On current affairs in the context of the new draft budget." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-18-114	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, After a long-term illness, you will hear my first speech in the framework of this House's agenda. In my recovery from Covid's disease, I found that when I was able to inform about developments in political life, that the municipalities that are under opposition leadership are almost unevenly lacking central government support for municipal operations. They cry, they visualize emergencies instead of running their cities, their settlements, rather than providing better living conditions for those living there. In support of this untruth, I looked at the relevant data of the largest settlement in our constituency, Érd. I found a shocking series of data: if, among other things, we looked at the 2019 and 2021 budget sections, then, in summing up, it meant that the amount of government subsidies increased by around 27 percent today after the payment of the solidarity tax. This means, Honourable House, that, for example, in the case of Érd, the budget of 2021 will already receive HUF 1.2 billion more operating funding for the city than during the previous city administration. Thus, the state supports the tasks of the Municipality of Érd by more than HUF 6 billion. In this context, we always see contradictory statements in the municipal press. It turned out, among other things, that the government increased its support for health care tasks by more than 30 percent this year. This year, HUF 400 million more operating aid is coming to Érd, reaching HUF 1.8 billion. I think, honourable House, that I am talking about local governments, opposition leaders, not really interested in the leadership of their settlements, but in creating the worst possible mood among voters. They didn't want to run a settlement, they wanted to change government. In all areas, as I have said, state aid has increased, for example, reading the local government press in Érd, but it is as if a parallel world could be seen: bleeding out, withdrawal, bankruptcy, these words are prominently in the local public media. I must add that within the House there are also supporters of the opposition side led by Mayor László Bézik, in the city of Érd. A woman, who is currently DK, but who was dialogueal, then independent and has been included from the list, has shown on several occasions that, for example, a small amount of HUF 777 million has been awarded to compensate for lost trade tax and has been envisaged. I must add that this is exactly as much as the loss of revenue. Dear House, The point of my comment today is that I propose that the leaders of the opposition authorities, including the mayor of the town of Érd with county rights, should not consider the change of government as a primary concern, but that he should be concerned with helping the Érdians to live a better life, because with this crying, with this gloating atmosphere, he will destroy or weaken our joint efforts to say that the tasks of the municipalities have increased significantly compared to 2019 or 2006. I therefore urge them once again to use government contributions to municipalities during the eleven years as appropriate and for the benefit of citizens of the city. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-18-115	Thank you very much, Congressman Aradski. I'm glad I could give you the floor, and you're back here in health. I trust that Gábor Bányai will return to us. Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: the voice of the countryside! It's called the 10th. You have the floor. [[18.20]]
u2021-05-18-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last Tuesday, my fellow Member, László Böröcz, woke up to the fact that it wasn't enough to rob the municipalities, and now they're taking away the thousands of billion-dollar municipal assets that are in our country and belong to all Hungarians. They're gonna take it, and they're gonna play it, they're gonna take it. That he did not agree with anyone but tenants, he himself admitted to the meeting of the Economic Commission yesterday, when I asked how many representatives had consulted with the local authorities, and what they would say about this proposal, as we have also heard from the press that not only opposition mayors, but also government party mayors and councils, protest against this House Privateisation Act. It is no coincidence that we opposition representatives have already said at the Economic Committee's meeting what we are afraid of. We fear that this will give rise to the privateisation of national assets and to the housing mafia on the one hand. My fellow Member Böröcz looked at this with great eyes at the Committee on Economic Affairs and thought that we were going to tell a story there at the committee meeting. But no, that's the hard truth. And it was obvious at the Economic Committee's meeting that there was a lot of movement to do then. When I asked him where in this bill there is the prohibition that if a tenant buys his previous apartment at this potom price, I even brought him a number example, and I raised a 20 million-dollar apartment, for that, 30 percent is 6 million forints, if the tenant has been living in this apartment for more than 15 years, it is 3 million forints, because only 15 per cent is payable, and if he can pay for this in one amount, it is 2 million 100 thousand forints. So a 20 million-dollar apartment could be the property of the tenant for 2 million hundred thousand forints. We have never said that we do not want to support Hungarians' housing, but not at this price! 'Cause what's that gonna mean? Those who live in such apartments have 105 thousand apartments in Hungary, he said so himself, of which 21,000 are empty, about this a little later, but in the 105 thousand apartments who live in them, most of them are socially deprived. He was granted this right because he was able to live in this lease because he considered the municipality to be socially deprived. I ask him where he's going to put 2 million 100,000 forints on the table. Well, he's gonna do that by people knocking on his door, and they're gonna tell you that you have this money, buy this apartment, and I'm gonna come back tomorrow, and I'm gonna give you the multiple of this, but they're still gonna get this apartment at a low price. So when I asked where the ban on disposal was in the bill, I did it for a reason. My fellow Member Böröcz admitted that this was not included in the proposal. So we're gonna get to the point where we're gonna give way to the circumvention, privateisation, and housing mafia. And when emphasis is placed on how important the protection of municipal property is, because it belongs to all Hungarians, it should also be taken into account that there are many people who need it, and when he says that 21 thousand apartments are empty, he will ignore that they are not empty because they would not be in need, but they are empty because you have not given resources to municipalities in 11 years to renovate them or reach the level of comfort that provides the basic living space for people. So there are people in need. And if they save these assets, privateize them, then these waiting lists will be even longer. So the law on home privatisation, tabled by my fellow Member, László Böröcz, which is protested by more and more Fidesz pro-government mayors, is simply unthinkable and unvoteable, and I dare say that it is an anti-national act to present this. What happened at the meeting of the Economic Committee: when I asked for a roll-call vote, so that all Hungarians would know who the Members who allowed this bill to come before the House would simply sneak away from the roll-call vote. So I can only say to you that with 8 yes, 2 cowardly abstentions and, of course, no votes from the 4 opposition Members, next week we are most likely to negotiate this bill here in plenary, against which we are protesting with all our might, because we are in favour of the municipalities and we are in favour of national wealth. However, it is the rental program, because rent apartments are needed. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-18-117	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title Újpest at the summit, the title of Hungarian football. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-18-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament,
u2021-05-18-119	Your microphone, Congressman Steinmetz.
u2021-05-18-120	Can you hear me now? [[Anita Potochanya Kőrösi: Dániel Z. Carpathian is in there, not Adam Steinmetz! The name of the representative appears on the display.]] That's good. So you're ready to go again?
u2021-05-18-121	You can go again.
u2021-05-18-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Cup final is the festival of sports. And by winning it, sports history can be written. As a five-time Hungarian Cup winner water polo player, I know how much work is behind such a success, and what happiness the conquest of the Cup brings to the particular sports community, fans, supporters and contestants alike. The Hungarian Cup Final was held on 3 May. The players of Újpest and Fehérvár ran to the track and listened to the Hungarian anthem. They didn't sing it, they just listened. There were only four Hungarian players in the two starting teams. In Fehérvár Kovács, Bolla, the naturalized Nego, and Nikolic, and in Újpest none. So, in my opinion, 3 May was not a celebration of Hungarian football, but rather, on the contrary, a low point, because it is not possible to celebrate Hungarian football without Hungarian footballers. The foreign trainer running Újpest sent his students to the field in the following composition, if you will allow me to read: Pajovic Filip, Ristevski Kire, Tallo Gadji-Celi, Koutroumpis Georgios, Beridze Giorgi, Nemanja Antonov, Mitrović Nikola, Croizet Yohan, Onovo Chukwuebuka Vincent, Pauljevic Branko and Kastrati Lirim. Ladies and gentlemen, am I the only one you're bothering? I mean, it's not Újpest's cup win, it's this phenomenon. Why is it good for us that Hungarian people's money is spent on foreign football players? Of course, they can say that the teams in European topligas are mostly foreign stars, and the owner spends his money on what he wants anyway, but in Hungary about 70 percent of the first-class football clubs are provided by the state in the form of direct or indirect subsidies. But why is it good for us that Hungarian people's money is spent on foreign football players? State Gambling Company. The football clubs receive billions of forints of revenue from their revenues, public television broadcasting fees, the amounts allocated by the Ministry and the transfer of corporate tax, which are used to pay football players abroad. In addition, footballers in Újpest could spend HUF 200 million a year only on Tao and MLSZ support to raise and train football players. But where are the talented young Hungarians? Why don't you get a chance in Newpesten and most first-class teams? Is it because the Hungarian people's money is being spent on foreign football players? But what's in it for us? But there are clubs where players are raised exemplaryly. And now it is not just the French, Dutch, Belgian and German clubs that need to be thought of, for example, the Czech Slavia Praha and the Croatian Dinamo Zagreb, which write a success story in Europe by relying almost exclusively on their own young people. They're doing this without state support, by the way. We could take an example of them. Congratulations to Újpest on the cup victory, it is indeed a great achievement, but it would have been even nicer to achieve this success with young Hungarians. And why is it good for us that Hungarian people's money is spent on foreign football players? Well, it is not good for us at all, and after the change of government, we will not allow Hungarian people to spend their money on foreign football players. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-18-123	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Steinmetz. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you a restful evening.
