u2021-03-17-1-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. The 6th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, I will be assisted by Winner Vinnai and notary László Varga. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech on our current affairs! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-17-1-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Citizens, Dear Parliament, He'd give himself the title of "current affairs" to talk about the more than $8 million punishment that Speaker László Kövér has completely wrongfully and unjustly imposed on me just because I'm under the second rule. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. I was trying to counter the withdrawal from district medical offices in the most civilized and mostly rule of law. But that is not what I will talk about, although it is important for me to say that there has been a lot of support, a lot of people have encouraged me, a lot of people have encouraged me. A lot of people signed the petition that the Dialogue initiated to give back the money for the development of Buda offices, and a lot of people supported us financially through www.tamogasdaparbesedet.hu in order to prevent financial penalties from making the work of opposition representatives impossible. I'm not gonna talk about that, either. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] The damage to democracy, the residual authority of the Parliament, the international judgment of Hungary is that the Speaker can bring such obvious nonsense as a judgment, so that Hungary will lose the lawsuits in Strasbourg, not László Kövér. But let's really put this aside, because it is more important to know at all what the government is like to withdraw HUF 10 billion from the development of health institutions during a health crisis. This is what I have been thinking most about, and I have come to the conclusion that this government is quite vile and incompetent, sneaky and amateur, because we see that it is abusing the exceptional situation caused by the epidemic, in order to transform health to its liking, that it is doing the stealth reforms that it is not willing to discuss publicly, well prepared to implement, now in an emergency, while not being able to handle the epidemic itself, it is unable to organise vaccination, it is failing to do the actual government, and under the cover of the epidemic, it is doing the transformations that would otherwise be worth arguing about, and the steps that are totally unacceptable, such as the withdrawal of nearly HUF 10 billion from the development of the clinics. What are we talking about? We are talking, for example, about the violent and forced formation of GP communities, even though this would not have been a bad idea, just because of the way in which it was implemented, it became about. is as popular with the general practitioners as the violent activism among the peasants in the '50s. You've been given a week to join an unknown system. And the same was the case with the new medical service, where again they asked the health care workers who had been exploited, exploited, to jump into nothing, darkness, blindly trust themselves, who did not deserve that trust in any way. It's no coincidence that about 4,000 medical workers have said that so far, and no longer, this can't be done with us. Your government has done this during the crisis, and in the meantime, we could continue until sunrise stories about who would be eligible for vaccination, and has not yet received who has been vaccinated unauthorizedly, how the registration system is not working, which is supposed to lead to an unknowable vaccination plan. That's the problem, when the party state is built, the party's got my attention, and the state's not. The state's out of order, you're incompetent to run the state. Perhaps if you asked Comrade Kubatov not to update the list of Fidesz, but to try to process the vaccination lists, we might be better off. And now one of the ministers of state of the incompetent and vile government will stand up and tell us that we are anti-vaccination, which is an obvious lie; he will tell us that we are talking all over the place, that we once demand an opening, once closing, while you have posted a poster of the country to shut the whole country down, so there is no more ridiculous self-esteem that can be done. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What a high-class style you are! That was civil!]] Or they say that in Hungary the government is not responsible for outstanding deaths, but the opposition, which is the case of cowardice and discrimination. So I'm not asking you to do this. I don't want to hear it. I'm curious to see what they have to say. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines. Dr. Bence Rétvári: We expected more!]]
u2021-03-17-1-2	Thank you very much, notary Bence Tordai, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond.
u2021-03-17-1-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as the first part of your wide speech is concerned, that you've been punished has nothing to do with the medical office case, but has something to do with your failure to comply with the rules here. So if we can suggest something to you, then act the way it suits a man who represents voters in the most beautiful house in the country, and not in provocations seek the essence of his policy. And if he decides to fight, he's gonna have to bear the consequences. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] That's all I have to say to you. And by the way, what you're talking about is, among other things, the biggest wage-raise program in recent years, which has been preceded by a series of discussions, including with the Medical Chamber. [[9.10]] You can't say a salary increase programme of this magnitude from the past decades, as is the case with a total wage increase programme of 72 percent of nurses, and GPs receive more support compared to the previous period. Now with regard to vaccinations, vaccination is the hope-giving thing in this situation, while the third wave is raging. If there were not, if there were not a well-functioning vaccination plan in Hungary, we would not be able to say that Hungary is the second among EU countries in terms of vaccination. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] In Hungary, the number of vaccinated people is growing the fastest, it takes place three times as fast as in the EU on average, according to the most recent data, almost 14 percent of Hungarians received the vaccine, which means more than 1 million 300 000 vaccinated people, this could not be possible if a little bit of what you are talking about was true. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) And the reason we stand better is because we did not leave the purchase of vaccines to Brussels alone; we have received enough criticism from you, among other things, but this decision has proved to be correct, because the purchases made by Brussels are coming late and even those which have been committed have been delayed. For example, the AstraZeneca vaccine has just been notified half a million less coming in the next few weeks. And just to explain a few reasons for these delays: they did not enter into a contract in Brussels in time, someone concluded it in Brussels in November; manufacturers did not make a binding commitment to deliver in any event; and Brussels, it seems, has also given up the possibility of making an inquiry. These will need to be examined later, but now we need to ensure that as many vaccines arrive as possible. Now, regarding your other comments, you have repeatedly said that you have foreseen that the third wave will be the worst. Really? ! Well, that's not the case. For the record, let's note that I can see that you're disturbed, but let's note that you requested an immediate opening. [[Bence of Turdai says no to his head.]] The MSZP demanded an immediate opening, the Momentum announced such a policy, and Jobbik campaigned even at local level for opening. And the total misrepresentation of the situation is also evident in the fact that your mayor announced a series of programs in Downtown a few days ago. I don't know what more than 40 consultants are doing, but if the operational tribe hadn't made a special call to the municipalities, the city hall would have kept the programs, as if there were no epidemic. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's right! Reckless!]] Typically, your party partner has been calling the government in connection with respirators in the last few days, all of this by personally declaring the purchase of respirators unnecessary several times. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The week they ask why there's no ventilator, week B, and why there's so much of your politics. As far as economic aspects are concerned, as long as the tax criminal Csaba Czeglédy's contracts are financed to this extent by the left-wing authorities, there would also be money for steps to help families and businesses. And if I really want to help businesses in this situation, [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Then why did they einstand their wage support? (Bence of Turdai intervenes. ) Why don't you give it to them? After that, it is really difficult to decide whether their hypocrisy or their irresponsibleness is greater. We have been fighting the epidemic for a year, honourable Member, and many of us are waiting for the left to join the fight against the epidemic for just one day. What has been presented so far is a party and campaign policy of the anti-national race. They still have a chance to change. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-17-1-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The coronal virus epidemic has confronted us with the deterioration of health care, the deterioration of our health system, bottlenecks, the lack of numbers and appreciation of health workers. The epidemic changed the job, changed the education, changed the everyday life, but it didn't change one thing: the mentality of the government. Over the last year, the country has continued to be torn apart, the enrichment of the Fidesz oligarchs, and the situation has practically become worse. The Prime Minister said in his interview on Sunday that he saw in November that there was going to be a big problem and that the situation was serious. However, if the Prime Minister had seen it, I would ask why the government was not prepared for the third wave of the epidemic, why not prepare a thoughtful and responsible action plan for this situation, and perhaps even when you launched a national consultation rather than preparation, burning tens or hundreds of millions, which was completely unnecessary. The purchase of vaccines is a very important priority, we are aware of it, but it is also a fact that it would have been a number of other important tasks for our daily livelihoods, which the government has not handled at all or very badly. There was no thought-out, accurate vaccination plan, and the question is not only when and who it is, but also the capacities should have been accurately assessed, and the provision of the vaccination infrastructure should have been planned in time rather than ingenious. With proper preparation, they wouldn't have sent out 74,000 texts to the people who were waiting for vaccination before a weekend, which was crawling with errors, which had to be canceled anyway. At a time like this, a health law should not have been introduced before the National Assembly, which resulted in nearly 5,000 health workers leaving the sector during the most critical period. Since November last year, tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs, lost their income, and many small and medium-sized enterprises have been destroyed. And what did the government do for them? Pretty much nothing. [[9.20]] In November, Viktor Orbán knew that the problem was great, but in December the government spent nearly HUF 8000 billion, not to solve health problems or help people in distress, but to predominantly unnecessary projects, we told him quite a lot about the World Hunting Exhibition, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and, not least, the many star hotel development of the Fidesz-oligarchs. Even last week, when the third wave of the epidemic was really roaring, the government was able to raise the amount for the construction of the Nyíregyháza stadium to HUF 19 billion, and the economic development fund transferred HUF 12 billion to the handball hall. Prime Minister! I'll tell you right here, and I'll draw your attention to the fact that we don't have to build stadiums at this time, but we have to help people in trouble. Unfortunately, more and more people are in need of help, but you don't seem to realize it. So I'm calling the government's attention once again so that everyone who's out of work because of the virus gets a hundred percent sick. The amount and duration of the unemployment allowance shall be increased. Full wage support must be provided in all sectors where income has fallen. Support should also be granted to individual and micro-enterprises who have been left out of all aids so far. Since more and more people are unable to pay the overhead costs, the needy ones should also receive support for this. There are a lot of people who have been out of income for a long time, so we believe that there is a need for re-opening support for them. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to rebut here what the government is spreading about us. We're pro-vaccination. We say that all vaccines are better than disease. Let me show you that I was vaccinated with the Chinese vaccine two and a half weeks ago, and I recommend that everyone sign up for vaccination. Thank you for your attention. That's right, I've been vaccinated!
u2021-03-17-1-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-17-1-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, You have repeatedly said here in Parliament, like all your left-wing fellow politicians, that vaccination is disorganized in Hungary, vaccination is chaotic, there is no plan for vaccination. Tell me, Madam High Representative, if Hungary is the second most effective in vaccination, then what would you be satisfied with? What would be a plan for you? What would be organized for you, if not the vaccine that is more effective than German, Austrian, Belgian, Swedish, Spanish, Italian, and French than almost any other EU country outside Malta? You say to this second most successful vaccination programme that this is chaotic, unplanned, and that you are on all other charges, honourable Member. What would be good for you, then, if Europe's second most effective vaccination programme was not enough? Look at the numbers. They don't convince you, but you tell me anyway. In Hungary, the ratio of grafts is 13.94 per cent, almost 14 per cent, while in the EU there is less than 8 per cent, in Germany 7.7 per cent. According to you, 7.7% of Germans are successful, not chaotic, well organized, well designed, and nearly 14 percent of Hungarians are not good. France is 7.5 percent, Belgium is 6.7 percent. According to you, which are less grafted than Hungary, a well-organized vaccination programme, Hungary, which is by far higher than all of them and nearly twice the EU average, is an unorganized one. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There are very advanced symptoms of political blindness on the Hungarian left, because with great effort, weekdays and weekends, from morning to evening doctors, nurses, soldiers, policemen and everyone else are involved in organizing the organization to ensure that as many people as possible are vaccinated in Hungary, you minimize and treat it. This is probably not the way he behaved with doctors who vaccinated you or with nurses who contributed there. He probably thanked them, and that's just as well as human. But then why does he come into Parliament if his own experience and numbers show exactly the opposite of what is real? How is it that, because of its political position or political position, someone speaks both against his personal experience and against objective numbers that show how high the graft rate is in Hungary? Why do we say that you are anti-vaccinations, honourable Member? Because they collect signatures so people don't get vaccinated so they don't give Chinese vaccines. That's why we're saying you're anti-vaccination. Why do we say they're anti-vaccination? Because here in Parliament, a proposal for a decision is being submitted to prevent people from being vaccinated in Hungary with vaccines that the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority has approved and not the European pharmaceutical authority. Everywhere, even on that day, Olga Kálmán was the non plus ultra, who, even on the day of vaccination, tried to coordinate people against vaccination, or György Hiesz, who is part of this left-wing camp, who is constantly speaking against vaccinations, and then secretly inoculates himself. So why do we call you anti-vaccinations? Because they vote for anti-vaccination proposals here in Parliament because people are dissuade from administering Chinese and Russian vaccines, and because they collect signatures so that Hungarian people cannot be vaccinated with five vaccines, only three. That's why we're telling you they're anti-vaccination. When would we say they're pro-vaccination? If they did not submit a proposal, they would submit a proposal to give as many vaccines as possible in Hungary and would support the government's objectives. For example, would you turn the planes arriving from China yesterday or the previous days back to China at Ferihegy airport to return the Chinese vaccine? From there, would they send you back from the airport? Because such a proposal for a resolution is being submitted here in Parliament, honourable Member. It would not make it to China, because there would probably be a very fast demand here in Europe for the Chinese vaccine that first arrived in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The kind of anti-vaccination that is being done here as a politician in Parliament and in the media is outrageous. As regards the number of Hungarian doctors, honourable Member, when the Hungarian left took over government in Hungary in 2002, he was 37 295 doctors. With two years of governance, we managed to take this down to less than 34,000, 33 943 doctors in 2010, honourable Member, so they reduced the number of doctors by more than 4,000. What happened since 2010? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The number of doctors has increased in Hungary, and is now around 40,000. You took it from 37,000 to 34,000, we took it under 34,000. [[The president's gonna jog his glass.]] government, and now there's a doctor over 40,000. It shows who does for doctors and who doesn't. You've reduced medical wages, we've raised medical wages. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-17-1-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Before the agenda, Mr Lajos Oláh, representative of DK, asked for a speech with the title "Actual Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-17-1-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. You are throwing a lot of data, but there is one thing you never talk about, and this is that Hungary is the eighth worst among 193 countries in terms of population-related death. In any country that we watch the news, they say and investigate how this mortality rate stands. You failed, you left thousands of Hungarians on the side of the road to die in hospitals. This is the number that best shows your successful or unsuccessful defense. Vaccines from the EU are constantly criticised. If you, Honourable Government, had given all the EU vaccines, today there would be more vaccinees in Hungary than you have achieved. Vaccines should not be stored in the warehouse, but the Hungarian Medical Chamber should be properly organized and accepted by the local authorities. Yeah, I know, they're gonna answer me, too, that everyone's anti-vaccination. I'll help you: not just watch the public TV where you tell lies, but listen to the real speeches. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to talk about a specific epidemiological measure, and this is the free parking facility introduced by the Orbán government. It soon turned out that free parking as an epidemiology weapon had failed very quickly, since it didn't make any more doctors, nurses, make up for the vaccine, heal the patients sooner, but deprives the municipalities or the people who live there of significant income. In the inner districts of Budapest there was no parking space, and after that parking was completely impossible. You have punished those who live there. At the time of the introduction, you referred to the need to relieve the burden of Community transport. [[9.30]] Dear Government, At the time, you probably never tried to stop in the back seat of the luxurious limos while driving, because at that time you would have seen that there wasn't much parking space in the inner districts, so there was nothing to relieve. I have submitted a written question to show you the data demonstrating that free parking relieves BKV flights. You couldn't give me an answer. It turned out very quickly that when you used it to justify free parking, you lied because you could not send any meaningful information to the written question. But the situation is actually much worse, my dear government, because it seems that by allowing free parking, you have made the epidemiological situation of those living there more difficult, because your experts have said that air pollution has a negative impact on the epidemiological situation. Today, residents have to circulate much more to find parking spaces, and you have tried to free the entire Budapest and transit traffic to the inner districts, because everyone is parked there free of charge, thus significantly increasing air pollution based on the assessment of civil society organisations, i.e. you are endangering the lives of the residents there, respected government. 133 brave men endanger the lives of the inhabitants of Elizabeth and Teresa. In addition, every month 250 million HUF is lost from these two districts, not from district leaders, but from district residents. [[What about the Gypsy Orchestra?]] There's a lot of anger and anger against you. We might as well be satisfied, because we're saying that the government will continue to go into the screw, go into the woods, and it will fail even more in 2022. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] but as elected parliamentary representatives of Elizabeth and Terézváros, this is not what motivates us, but the lives of the people who live there. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And bitcoin mining!]] Therefore, my request is to withdraw free parking immediately, to have cleaner air, to have a calmer life for the people there, and please do not lie about the reduced density at BKV in this connection. I can tell you to take a little look at international research, because there are some places that have been investigated, unlike you, and there they said that there is no need for any such thing, community transport, if they are adequately protected. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] does not cause this type of problem. You don't care about reality and facts, you're just lying. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Music School...]] Dear Government, In particular, please respond to the honor of the inhabitants of Elizabeth and Terézváros, and you have any information regarding the substantial decrease in the number of passengers due to free parking. Answer Why They Increase [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the epidemiological risk with free parking. Thank you for listening. Excuse me, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-17-1-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Oláh. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond.
u2021-03-17-1-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's been a lot of topics, so I'm trying to answer in a row. As far as vaccinations are concerned, it is amusing that you are here to give your support for vaccination, while your party has done a great deal of work against vaccinations: you have attacked professionals when granting permits; you have also attacked certain types of vaccine in Brussels; you have collected signatures against certain types of vaccine. The DK municipalities have sent a letter to general practitioners not to use certain vaccines. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] On the air, their health politician questioned that any vaccine would be better than the virus. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: That's not true...]] One of their resolutions shows on the DK side that the Chinese vaccine should be banned. You don't have to ask for permission, you have to ban it. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops!]] You campaigned for a ban, and now you deny it. What a shame! And they have a GP, a candidate of yours, who refuses to give the vaccine. And after that, you come here and say you're pro-vaccination. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes: in the press... Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] What do you think you're doing? Why do you have to think everyone's stupid? Why do Hungarians look like idiots? As regards the number of vaccines available, the Prime Minister also said yesterday that there may be vaccines in warehouses because a second dose should be provided with a reserve. It's a health issue. Why do you want to override it? As far as the municipal offerings are concerned, there are a lot of fire points in the country. The problem is not that there is no point of suspension, but the problem is that the vaccines promised and committed by Brussels do not arrive. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: The people are in line, Mr. Secretary of State.]] So I suggest you lobby your buddies outside for these vaccines to arrive if you want to do something. As far as parking is concerned: the connection, I hope, is obvious to you, that if parking is free, more people can use their cars in public transport. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: How many?]] Allow me to go through with it, because I've listened to you, too, and the number of contacts can be reduced. It's an epidemiology issue. All such measures shall be based on the proposals and proposals of health epidemiological experts. I'm asking you not to override this. Allow me to address other aspects of living, also because you always question the government's political intention to improve livelihoods. And I'd like to tell you that we've been through a lot of decisions. The government has decided on the credit moratorium, on wage subsidies, which now also applies to the sectors affected by the closure; the kata and kiva taxpayers do not have to pay this tax in March; the people under the age of 25 will be exempt from tax, and I could continue the line. Now, this is the program that you deny even the existence of, and if it were to be supported here by a vote in Parliament, then you will go against it. And then you come here and worry about the Hungarians' livelihoods, while at every crucial point you went against these plans. And we always listen with interest to them when they make demands on the economy and livelihoods. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Free parking!]] And the reason why everyone feels weird is because you guys have already passed the test for crisis management, and it's not enough, it's a failure. And this is about a lot more than just the question of parking, which, once again, is an epidemiology issue, because if you're just looking at your livelihood, [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Free parking!]] You didn't give me a salary subsidy, you gave me a salary cut; 800,000 people were involved. The pension was not increased but reduced; 2.4 million pensioners were affected. They didn't raise medical wages, they put 6,000 doctors on the street and took out 16,000 active beds. They didn't expand family support, they took away family tax benefits. And if that wasn't enough, they decided to introduce a real estate tax; they wanted tuition, a development part contribution, and they were raising energy prices all the time. This is how you helped Hungarians make a living, so, in general, and I know that I have gone beyond the question of parking, but the health issue and the issue of epidemics. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] But if I look at the whole point of this, your crisis management is about austerity, and the national side is about protecting the workplace of Hungarians in the most difficult time and supporting families, and that is a big difference. By the looks of your suggestions, there won't be a huge consensus between us. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] Let me give you another interpretation of your suggestions on parking: I see that Czeglédy Csaba [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm gonna need the additional order. I can't think of any other way to interpret your suggestion. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]]
u2021-03-17-1-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Zita Gurmai, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a pre-meeting speech: When does the Fidesz government talk to people before stealing from them? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-17-1-13	Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary of State! I find it scandalous that the Fidesz government is helping to take the shoreline of Balatonaliga away from the Hungarian families. There will be no public space on the designated 7 hectares, so there is a danger that both local residents and families arriving to rest at Lake Balaton will lose direct contact with the lake. Let us be clear: the Fidesz regime creates the possibility of shutting this beach down and pushing ordinary people out of there. Since the Aliga Bath Association of local local patriots received no reply from the Prime Minister's Office, I submitted a written question in January 2021. Dr. Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, replied and referred to the fact that the Prime Minister's Office does not have jurisdiction in this matter. However, that is not true. The development of the coastal promenade and other public areas is being bypassed by a government decree last year, so the trustee of the area does not have to comply with what he originally promised the municipality to have access to the waterfront. In addition, on behalf of the Hungarian State, the Hungarian National Asset Management Company concluded the 10-hectare government contract with Promot Kft. This also proves that the Fidesz government does have an effective powers in this case. [[9.40]] When I pointed out in my further written question that the Prime Minister's Office could not dismiss the responsibility for a matter that was brought about by a government decree, the Secretary of State simply said that I should accept his earlier reply. This rude and disdainful response cannot be regarded as a meaningful response either by me or by the local residents concerned. The government can't drop the blame. They are constantly pointing to the local authorities, the investor, while everyone is aware that the government's decree makes it possible to build new huge hotels. This not only closes the families who want to relax from Lake Balaton, but also endangers the natural values of the area by integrating the area in a large size. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Just accept that you didn't manage to settle this shit quietly. Attila Péterfalvi, Data Protection Commissioner, has already stated that secrecy is not a place for this matter. It is against the law that the owner of Club Aliga signs a confidentiality agreement with four members of the local body of representatives and is willing to negotiate with them only from then on. The latest development in this case is the case of the former pioneer camp near Club Aliga. During the privatisation last year, the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. guaranteed that the municipality has the right to pre-emption for the 30-metre beach promenade. However, the provisions of the Government Decree, which I mentioned earlier, also apply to this land and have abolished the relevant right to pre-emption. According to the leaks, they're planning a huge building here. The demolition's already started. They're building all the way to the beach. Instead of a two-storey, 8 m long property, which is still in line with the local construction regulations, they plan to build a property of 16,5 m, 7 floors. It's just amazing. And while you're at it, you're crushing your own laws. Let's line it up. They're ignoring the Fundamental Law. The Law on spatial planning for 2018 is being ignored. They don't give a damn about local construction regulations and previous contracts. You recall that in December 2017, even the minister leading the Prime Minister's Office of János Lázár presented a much more acceptable bill, which was then withdrawn. They found out that while a camp in Balaton operates with a few ten million profit a year, they can make billions out of real estate business. And Fidesz is no longer interested in crowding out families looking for less affluent, cheap vacations from Lake Balaton. Is everything really for sale with you guys? But don't think you can just run over people like that. Due to the existing violations, the Balatonvilágos municipality has already turned to the Constitutional Court, and the MSZP is working with the people for the freedom of the Lake Balaton. We're gonna stop you from sharing what we all have. Thank you for listening.
u2021-03-17-1-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. On behalf of the government, Azbei Tristan will answer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-17-1-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the case of Club Aliga has not come up in the parliamentary discourse for the first time. You, as well as you, Congresswoman, have received a professional response on previous occasions, which has clarified the legal concerns, so I would like to repeat the answers, clarifying in several places what you have said. Firstly, with regard to the non-negotiation of negotiations, I would like to note the fact that, in the autumn of 2020, the Prime Minister's Office invited those involved in the development of Lake Balaton, including civilians, including the Aliga Bath Association. The Prime Minister's Office initiated the meeting precisely because it considered it important to know the views of all parties concerned. The consultation took place on 29 September in Balatonvilágos, where several representatives of the spa association were present from the civilian part, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Member of Parliament, Dr. István György, Deputy State Secretary Zsolt Füleky, Mayor of Károly Takács Balatonvilágos village, as well as representatives of several municipal representatives, as well as the owner of the territory and the manager of the property. The majority of the professional questions of the spa association were clarified by the stakeholders at the meeting, and we do not understand why these already clarified questions are being put on the agenda again and again, and the issues that have been clarified with representatives of civil society organisations. As a whole conclusion, I would like to say that the Prime Minister's Office no longer has competence in relation to the contracts of trustees and settlement settlement settlements, since they were established between the municipality and the owner and the trustee. In general terms, the policy of the government is that the investments in the area of Lake Balaton reflect the general sustainability approach, which protects economic, social and environmental sustainability aspects, protects environmental values, support the recovery of Lake Balaton's tourism, tourism, and at the moment protect the Hungarian people, and enable them to spend their free time in the environment of Lake Balaton cheaply, according to their wallet. In this connection, I would like to draw the attention of the Parliament and the Hungarian public to the Kisfaludy programme, in which the Balaton region will be heavily affected by more than 14 thousand private accommodations and more than 114 beaches will be renewed. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-03-17-1-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The monsters showed up at Lake Balaton. Well, not monsters we can't meet, but they're real, monumental, and they have a huge appetite: they want to go to Lake Balaton. In recent years, you have done nothing but exploit and expropriate the properties of municipalities, municipalities and start selling. My fellow Member has already mentioned the case of Club Aliga and has affected investment in the pioneer camp. That's what I'd like to talk about right now, because that's what's keeping the mood in Lake Balaton. But let's go to the wider spectrum, what's at Lake Balaton? By the East Basin At Keszthely, 40 trees hurt your appetite. In the middle pool at Tihany, they moved land from an entire crater area that completely harms nature, so nature-damaging people received a penalty of only HUF 500 000. And now we arrive in the eastern basin, Balatonvilágos, where there is a huge, contiguous area, 47 hectares of Club Aliga, and next to it is an area of only 8300 square meters, the former pioneer camp, which operates as Elizabeth camp. April 2020, the auction will take place, the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. For HUF 410 million only, it sells an area where the local construction regulations state that 10 metres of beach lane must be maintained and otherwise it is not possible to build within 30 metres. Then August 7, 2020 you declare the area of the Club Aliga not only as a priority development area, but also as a pioneer camp. What does that mean? All the local construction regulations are bins. The height of the 8 m building rises to 16,5 m, it is abolished that within 10 metres you have to form a coastal strip, practically sold this area for 410 million HUF. I ask the question: did the investor know that I was using the suspect suit because the investor had been granted a building permit at the observatory just before the publication of the legislation, and, of course, the area is much more valuable, what value this area has if local construction regulations do not apply there. [[9.50]] 1.2 billion, this is what you have done to the Hungarian people. You do not only take away the Balaton from the Hungarian people, but also profit from it. You're assisting with this. Have you seen these visions? [[He's showing me a card.]] That's what they want to build there, this monumental housing monster. This is what you want to put there, just 8.14 meters from the edge of Lake Balaton. The visual plans are clear, you are overwriting the construction regulations, the municipal interests, which are in the interest of all Hungarians; because we have come to the point that nothing is sacred now. Behind this residential park, a planned residential park, there is a löszfal, the high shore of Balatonvilágos. Meteorologists have said that if this seven-story luxury residential park is built there, the wind changes, the climate changes, and so the people of Lake Balaton and the neighborhood suffer what is in your own personal interest. Because once again, what is in your interest, the enrichment, is to stuff the stooges and not the residential properties next to them, which may otherwise be two-story heights, because the local construction rules apply to them, unlike what you do in this area. Six-and-a-half meters, that's what's gonna happen. And you're assisting. Is this your Lake Balaton strategy? By destroying our natural treasure, which belongs to everyone, to all Hungarians, where people go to rest, and there we will have to look at this housing monster, which overshadows the properties of people living in the area? They will be devalued, that's what you do to the Hungarian people! Why do the Fidesz pro-government representatives of the region remain silent? Why don't you raise your voices and stand next to the Aliga Bath Association and beat the table at your table that you have to stop this investment? You have used this emergency to issue this building permit. They didn't do anything. They just stood by and watched. This housing monster, which is being planted there, is just the first step. What's next? The monsters are coming, they're eating up Lake Balaton, and they're bringing it into the middle, and they're gonna build a real estate in the middle of Lake Balaton, or what's next? Well, that's what I'm waiting for. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-03-17-1-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2021-03-17-1-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Since your suggestions have already been answered in more detail by my colleague, allow me to tell you that mass privatisations took place during socialist governments. The Club League was privatized by left-wing parties. [[Anita Potochanya Kőrösi shows a card: Talk about this!]] If you were really disturbed by this phenomenon, you wouldn't have conspired with them. Allow me to reiterate that the Prime Minister's Office initiated an on-site consultation in the autumn of 2020, wanted to get to know the views of all stakeholders, there was a detailed consultation, and I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Prime Minister's Office does not have competence in the case of the asset management contract and the settlement settlement settlement contract, because they were established between the municipality and the owners. I would also like to tell you that what you are comparing to a monster is usually the largest Balaton development program in recent years in Balaton development. You know very well, and I am sorry that you are campaigning against it, but the Balaton region is one of the priority areas for development, so in recent years the Tourism Agency has supported 232 development projects in 56 settlements, worth almost 70 billion HUF. It's government jurisdiction, we can talk about that. Only with the help of the Kisfaludy program has 44 hotels and 129 boarding houses been developed, and you will always be silent, but if I only look at the smallest private accommodations, then a total of 16 900 rooms, which means nearly 17 thousand rooms, have been renewed. This is the level of support that I could say in previous years that it has not taken place in decades. Then let's watch the beach upgrades. If I recall correctly, Members of Siófok, perhaps this is not an issue for you, three-quarters of the beaches in Balaton received development aid, which is 85 beaches only in recent years. Developments also include the development of transport infrastructure and the development of green surfaces, as well as the renewal of facilities. If I want to approach the question of the development of Lake Balaton from the priority targets, then I can tell you that we have made or implemented the following developments: the development of the Festetics Castle in Keszthely, the development of the castle in Szigetvár, I know that it is on the other side, but I think that, since it is a Balaton development, it may not be of interest to you either, the development of the Balaton bike circle, this affects Siófok, the complex development of water tourism, the acquisition of ships is still going into this in more detail, and the development of Szándópuszta is also included. I could continue the line for a long time, and I'm sorry that you deny these things, but I would like to say to you that if I only look at the development of the Bahart, because that's what you're talking about, we have all the hope that in the years to come, we'll have a level of sailing in Balaton. Two 45 meters of ferry started and two 35 meters of catamaran construction started. These ships are expected to be in service next year. Now you can ask yourself what the purpose of these developments, those that fall within government competence, is because what you have brought here is no longer what you have brought here for these reasons. Thanks to such and similar developments, Hungarian tourism has set records for the period before the epidemic, it has already given 13 percent of Hungarian GDP by the end of 2019, and we want this to reach the same level and even higher, once the epidemic is over. So, when you are attacking investment in tourism, which falls under government authority, you are actually attacking this effort. And it hurts because we're talking about jobs. These jobs must be protected, which is what tax reductions, tax waivers, credit moratorium are used in tourism, as well as refunds for bookings. The subsidies for tourism, despite the crisis, amount to hundreds of billions of forints, and I tell you once again, this is also justified because this sector provides work for Hungarian people. I hope there's nothing else we can agree on, but at least we can agree on this goal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-17-1-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent times, despite the epidemic and crisis, the left has started its campaign for 2022. I think it's tasteless to care only for their own ambitions of power when doctors, nurses, law enforcement workers, soldiers, social workers and everyone is fighting the virus crucified, but once again, the left is just about himself. Of course, what can we expect from them when they've been making only camuvideos for the last year, spreading false news, attacking professionals, health workers, and campaigning against vaccinations, lying about vaccines, dissuading people, and creating tension. They're not defending themselves against the virus, they're taking every opportunity to attack and threaten the government. They're always threatening me in a mean and unscrupulous way. In words, they constantly stand up for the rule of law and democratic values, calling themselves great democrats, while they are in a very far-reaching field from democracy. Ferenc Gyurcsány first announced the policy of threats, he said not too long ago, and I quote: "We must prepare, Vidnyánszky and his companions remain until Orbán, after which they fall. In fact, in every sense, they will be runaways, no trenches, no parentheses, no airless world. For all to be clear, it is the left-wing program that makes right-wing intellectuals land-runner when they come to power. This is your program, for better men, for socialists, for anarchists, for greeners and Gyurcsányists, for communist tempo. You have decided that the principles, if they remain, will be thrown out and created the most mundane collapsing of Hungarian political history, so from now on all their sentences can be interpreted as a joint programme. So the password is to make the right-wingers land-runner. The Gyurcsány boys' team was waiting for this, and now they're competing for the favors of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and they're trying to say bigger and bigger things, with increasing threats. One of the enthusiastic Gyurcsány boys, Peter James, said that if we only have a simple majority, we will carve the law until it becomes justice. [[10.00]] Of course, in the name of the rule of law in the European sense, Peter James will carve the right after the dream of Márton Gyöngyösi has been fulfilled and the Jewish representatives have been listed. You understand, do you, fellow Members? This is your program. He was quickly followed by another man named Zoltán Fleck. He said that it is likely that after a victory in the opposition of 22 we will have to give up the rule of law temporarily. Political activists calling themselves rights defenders, of course, listen, left-wing parties nod silently, because this is your program. No one should doubt that they are serious about the rule of law, not in your opinion. One of the black belt masters of the threat, Szabó Timea, said here in the National Assembly that we will get this back with legal means, and the fact is that many of those who have assisted will go to prison for this. Prison isn't a threat. It's a promise. Like in The Witness: Oops, it's not the charge, it's the judgment. Szabó. Timea has already said: this is what awaits the Fidesz-KDNP MEPs according to the democracy of the left. We cannot go without saying the words of one of your Prime Minister's candidates, Péter Márki-Zay, who said: "I don't want to tell you what candelabers can be used for besides posters. A municipal representative of the Momentum also wanted the members of the government to be lampmen. There is also the rival of Peter Jakab, the serial threat of the other Gyurcsány-son, András Fekete-Győr. Even a few years ago, after he broke into an editorial office and threatened journalists, he would now introduce the principle of collective guilt to ban all right-wing journalists from exercising their profession. Honourable left-wing Members, who have also listened deeply to this issue, this is therefore your common position from now on. Let me ask you: is this already the realisation of so-called European values? You have such a strong voice in these slogans; so do you think the threat of journalists is all right? Of course, András Fekete-Győr has threatened me with conceptual lawsuits, which he already knew the outcome of, and he also talked about disfiguring the country. He said of elected officials that they could not remain in their elected office, and so on. What do these sentences have in common? These are the principles of the left-wing program. None of these sentences felt that they should be separated. No European party family has released a statement. An international uproaring, worrying article has not been produced. A political activist, an organisation calling themselves civil rights defenders, did not think that he should speak out against the absolute despicable and undemocratic threats. So you're saying you're Democrats? Do you claim that the rule of law is important to you while you threaten journalists, send elected representatives to prison without any funds, and talk about making the intellectuals run for their lives? You are not democrats, you are not at all concerned with the rule of law, and you have nothing to do with true European values. You're a power-hungry, petty [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] threatening gang, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány and seeking his favors [[The president's ringing again.]] not only their former principles, but all fundamental political and human sobriety has been renounced. Shame on you! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Pál Völner, State Secretary, will respond on behalf of the government.
u2021-03-17-1-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Thank you for drawing attention to the fact that, on the opposition side, not only the surrender of national sovereignty, not only the delivery of the economy, but also the emergence of an old classic, the ghost, the ghost of opposition parties, the ghost of communism, which is spreading as a virus, we can hear the appearance of various mutations from these sounds. You should also study the Hungarian events after 1990 to the leaders and prominents of the opposition parties. Hungary has been a rule of law since 1990. The Fundamental Law, the Constitution, guarantees the right to property. No one can be deprived of his property, made a runaway simply because he has the opposite political views, like those who now rise to power, as they did in 19 and after 45, they have the practice; they have really made people runaway, they have really taken the property, they have really grinded the churches, they have banned the parties, so they have this easy opportunity to get politically settled in the long term, and from these remarks it is clear that this is not a stranger to them. If we think that it means the same thing in relation to the media situation, they want to make journalists runaway, who do not shout their propaganda, but express separate opinions, objective opinions or even party opinions against them or outside of them. I would like to say that this is not a matter of rule of law either. Because they, who are always talking about the rule of law in the EU and about the media situation, want to have a rule of law proceeding against Hungary or to have it completed, the media situation is practically one of the issues that might arise. I ask whether these speeches gave no more basis for a genuine rule of law procedure against Hungary if, let's say, media workers were virtually banned from the occupation. Of course, there used to be B-lists. So those who study history know where the roots of this thinking are, where the practice of this is, when they have really made families impossible, deprived people of their jobs, went to the factory yard with a degree to sweep better case, if they were given a job, they were deported to the countryside. So I understand the parallels, I understand the fantasies, only today Hungary is a democracy; without pillage, without liberals, without people and without any other democracy, where everyone has to measure themselves in an election before the voters, and then exercise power, governance, development of the economy, benefits to those in need, scientific life, so all the tasks that the current government is trying to do with all the strength that this legal system allows. We can say that when Ferenc Gyurcsány says that he will make him a runaway when András Fekete-Győr says that he will prohibit these people from their occupation, or, in other words, dream of others who disagree with him by means of a lamp iron outside the legal system, this is not a rule of law. That's not possible. Voters must consider this, and they must already be aware that these are shady remarks, but for some reason we do not. That's because we don't think like that, that's not what we do. If you look at the events of the past ten years, has there been even a faint sign of police violence that raged on the streets of Budapest in 2006? When they shot their own people, when they fell off the police, the I.D., when Ferenc Gyurcsány explained later that he was in charge of the police, but then he didn't conduct the police. It's the same as his privatization tricks. It was the Club Aliga that took place here in the previous speeches. How did you practically get your property in Balaton? We know you paid as much money for it as the state hired you back. It's a very good construction. I'm asking you, you've seen this since 2010, since the Fidesz administration, you've seen this. There is such a thing as buying and reprivating companies, but this kind of shady enrichment, a sneaky wave of retribution bypassing the rule of law is certain to be avoided if they continue to be in power. I propose to the electorate [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to consider all this in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-17-1-24	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Mr Zsolt Németh, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda on the 120th anniversary of the birth of János Esterházy. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2021-03-17-1-25	Mr President, Dear House, On Sunday it was 120 years ago that the Hungarian grandson of one of the largest Polish conservative thinkers Stanisław Tarnowski was born in Nyitraújlak: Count János Esterházy, political leader of the Hungarians between the two wars, and then the victim of the communist regime, whom the Roman Catholic Church's Diocese of Krakow found worthy to initiate in 2019. On this round anniversary today, János Esterházy has a public statue in Budapest in the Gesztenyéskert; thanks to the brilliant Hungarian sculptor, János Nagy and the initiating Civil Committee, who is floating between life and death at these moments. district government, the Hungarian government. And it is equally welcome that the 120th anniversary of the birth of János Esterházy was made memorable by coordinated commemorations in all four of the Visegrád capitals. Thus, Szilárd Németh, State Secretary, wreathed in the Hall of János Esterházy in the Hungarian Parliament. From the point of view of three soon-to-be-welcome tasks, I feel it is of particular importance that Esterházy's message to us in 2021, together with my fellow Members, is now being considered. [[10.10]] One is the day of Hungarian-Polish friendship, 23 March, which knocks on our door. As I said, Esterházy came from a mixed marriage between Hungary and Poland, and in his career he united the patriotism and Christian traditions of both peoples. He was involved in the escape of Polish refugees to Hungary, which was not harmless during the war in Slovakia, and he was among the first to speak out against the brutal massacre in Katyň, which the Soviets committed against the Poles. Not only was Hungarian-Polish friendship a tradition for him, but it was a mission, which had to find the job in its daily calendars. Let us follow in his footsteps on 23 March this year, not merely remember the great Hungarian-Polish achievements of the past, but, as a source, let us explore all the possibilities that the two peoples can do to support each other in rebuilding after the coronal virus and in order for our peoples and Europe to emerge stronger from the current crisis! Second: Esterházy's memory, however, did not only connect the two peoples, but he felt that the relationship between the Hungarian and Slovak nations was very important throughout his life. I quote him: "We want our Slovak and German brothers to thrive here, and we must fight together for each other. If we're not united and we don't look at the target, we're not getting anywhere. This land is our common country, so we need to work shoulder to shoulder to contribute to our shared home. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Trianon Peace Treaty did not change the fact that Esterházy loved Slovaks and stood up for their rights in Slovakia, for the rights of the Slovak minority in Hungary, but also for the rights of the Slovak state in Czechoslovakia. After the Second World War, Esterházy suffered captivity with the Slovak and Czech persecuted of Communism. The recent aspect of this is the deep respect and friendship that affected, for example, one of his later executed young Slovak inmates, Eduard Tesar. We know about Esterházy's prison years primarily from his fellow Slovak and Czech prisoners. We must also remember those Czech admirers who have done a great deal to uncover his memories in the Czech Republic, including identifying his ashes and returning him to his homeland. Among them, I must mention Karel Schwarzenberg, a family friend and later Minister of Foreign Affairs by name. This is important for the Hungarian V4 Presidency starting on 1 July. János Esterházy is an example that the four Visegrád nations are linked not only by pragmatic interests, but also by shared historical experiences, a very deep and very real spiritual community. During the Hungarian V4 Presidency, let us strive to further strengthen these spiritual foundations of Visegrad, in addition to pursuing common interests. Thirdly, it is important to take into account János Esterházy's consistent stand for human rights and universality in the context of our Council Presidency of Europe starting in May. I quote: "We are based on Christian truth, Christian ethics, which knows no difference between man and man, according to which the sons of each nation can have the right to prosper. This Truth is the highest, noblest, and most refined of all, of human genius. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Esterházy's oeuvre is an example that human rights are not in the UN [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They did not start in the Council of Europe, but were deeply rooted in Christian morality and teaching. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Németh. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2021-03-17-1-27	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your speech and your thoughts. János Esterházy really considered his own life a mission to ensure peaceful coexistence of the people of the Carpathian Basin, whether Hungarians, Slovaks, Czechs, Poles, Germans or any other nationalities. This was based on the provision and retention of nationality rights. This cohabitation, in which Slovaks can be brave and proud Slovaks, live on either side of the border, and the Hungarians can do the same. As he said, every nation or nationality has the right to preserve its own national existence here in the Danube Basin, even if it cannot live within the framework of its own independent state. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When Košice returned to Hungary, in his speech there he asked the Hungarians to respect the rights of the Slovaks, and in Bratislava he said: "My Slovak brothers, we Hungarians and Slovaks lived together a thousand years ago, from the realm of St. Stephen, do not break this unity! He imagined Europe as a Europe of nations, and it was clear to him that our continent could not exist without pillars. And he found the strongest pillar in Christendom, in Christian - inspired politics. That's why he said when Hitler and Mussolini dreamed of new thousand-year-old empires maniacally, our sign is the cross, not the swastika. He also said, "We want to keep the land that we didn't get, but we inherited from our fathers, and we want to protect not only the land, but also the cross. Those born Hungarians want to remain Hungarians, Hungarians and Christians, because every nation that despises God and does not want to achieve its goals through God. Today, too, we recommend it to some leaders in Brussels. [[Defiance in the ranks of the government.]] He kept rock solid with his principles and homeland, every time he was called to Hungary, he chose to stay in the Highlands. But he also said no to the time when Beneš offered him a ministry without a wallet, because he thought that as long as it seemed like they would accept Hungarians, he did not want to be a member of the government. After the war, it was clear that the new communist power would not tolerate János Esterházy in his country. However, the escape opportunities offered were rejected and consciously committed his fate, forced labour, and death sentences, which were later converted from grace to life imprisonment. During the war the Gestapo persecuted him, after the war the Communists. Yet he said, "I was born in this land, my heart, my soul's root lives on this earth so much that I will stay here among you, and I will live the bad days with you." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. John Esterházy, therefore, sets many examples in many ways. He teaches us the unconditional love of the homeland and the nation. He lived what Vörösmarty wrote in his Vocabulary: "You must live here, you must die." In addition, it teaches us to be European, meaning that the Europe of Christian nations living side by side in peace, all sorts of things, as he said: exportideologies and soulless empires and unions. He teaches us regionalism, regionalism. The people of the Carpathian Basin are a plaything of great power interests individually; if we are to break up with this, the only way is by understanding and accepting each other, to which the Member referred in connection with the V4 cooperation. János Esterházy also teaches principle, creed, and endurance. For this reason, János Esterházy's happiness process deserves special attention not only from the Hungarian, but also from the Czech, Slovak and Polish parts, as all four nations can look proudly at it and perhaps learn more and more about János Esterházy's life in lessons and testimonies. So he is the one who sacrificed his life for his faith, who was persecuted by both the Nazis and the Communists because of his principles. As a politician, Esterházy always sought to adhere to his principles, linking his love for his own country with his love and respect for the peoples that history linked. Thank you again, Mr President, for your speech. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-28	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Coming up next in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon a joint general debate on the report on Hungarian military engagement and the proposal for a resolution on its adoption until closure. Government referral B/14255. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Defence Committee is H/15257. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, General debates are now taking place. With respect, in view of the pandemic situation, I would like only the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers to be present in the Chamber as far as possible. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, the rapporteur of the report within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[10.20]]
u2021-03-17-1-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The government is 1737/2020. in its resolution on the Hungarian military engagement in UNIFIL, the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. On the basis of the Fundamental Law, the Government must report to Parliament on the decision to participate in the Hungarian Defence Service, in addition to informing the President of the Republic at the same time. I now wish to comply with this with your information within the walls of this Parliament. Dear fellow Members, Let's look at the legal background, the legal basis and the changes in time that made it possible for Hungarian soldiers to participate in UNIFIL. In order to enhance the peacekeeping capacity of the United Nations, the National Assembly adopted Article 44/2006. In its parliamentary decision, the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon contributed to the participation of up to 10 soldiers in the Hungarian Defence Force until the end of the mandate of the peacekeeping mission. According to the text of the Constitution in force in autumn 2006, the Parliament had the power to decide on participation in UN operations. However, with a 2009 amendment to the Constitution, the authorisation of participation in UN missions has already become the government's responsibility. Participation in peacekeeping operations under Article 47 (1) of our new Fundamental Law is also authorised by the Government. The number of new numbers is 1737/2020. Government resolution and 44/2006 on Hungarian participation in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. on the repeal of the parliamentary decision 33-2020. Parliamentary resolution was published at the same time in the edition 239 of the Hungarian Gazette, in which the government authorised up to 20 persons from the Hungarian population to participate in the peacekeeping mission of the United Nations in Lebanon until the end of the mandate of the peacekeeping mission. Dear fellow Members, The UNIFIL mission was established in 1978 on the basis of resolutions of the UN Security Council, with a view to overseeing the withdrawal of Israeli troops from Lebanon, restoring international peace and security, and supporting the Lebanese Government in exercising power over the Southern Territories. The Hungarian Defence Forces have been participating in the operation since 2006. Initially, we contributed relatively low numbers, four and then two, with cartographers, and then, following the withdrawal from the UN peacekeeping mission in Cyprus, in 2019, the preparation of the expansion of our UNIFIL role began, and 1344/2019 on increasing Hungary's international military engagement. under a government decision. Accordingly, four main tribal officers began their service in November 2019 with Poland in the Italian-led Irish Shooting Fight in the Western Sector. The deployment of 46 additional persons originally planned from May 2020 could not be achieved at the planned time and with the planned number of persons as a result of the United Nations restrictions on UNIFIL, i.e. such a downsizing. The Hungarian increase could only take place within the Polish quota, with the transfer of positions. According to this, the Hungarian stock of 15 was integrated into a phase of the Polish century. The battalion's number has thus remained unchanged, and the UN refund is guaranteed for the entire Hungarian stock. The Polish party provides handguns for Hungarian soldiers, as well as full logistical support on the battlefield, including care, housing and transportation. Our engagement has been modified by maintaining one of our four staff officers' contributions, so we are currently participating in this mission operation with a total of 16 staff members. Our soldiers were scheduled to start their mission service in November 2020, but the United Nations limited travel to the theatres due to the Covid-19 epidemic, so that the quota could only be deployed on 6 and 7 March. Dear fellow Members, By increasing our UNIFIL role, our aim in the framework of UN cooperation is to strengthen the fight against international terrorism and organised crime and the stability and security of the Middle East region. Enlargement also promotes the fulfilment of the government's defence policy objectives. With our increased military contribution, we directly support the Government's policy on foreign and security that the security challenges of this period, such as the problems of regional conflicts and instability, terrorism and mass illegal migration, the root causes, need to be dealt with primarily at the place where they were created, help should be provided on the ground, migrants should not be encouraged and traveled to Europe, but should be kept at home or stopped at the borders of Europe. The contribution further strengthens the image of us: Hungary is a reliable and responsible UN Member State that is willing to shoulder burdens and actively supports UN peacekeeping activities. On the other hand, this mission, as we are in unity with the Poles, also expands Polish-Hungarian military and political cooperation. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the shadow of the crown virus, we live extraordinary weeks, months. We can all agree that our countrymen are doing outstanding and indispensable work, showing great standing every day; some at home in order to ensure and protect the safety and health of Hungarians, while others are far away from their country in their missionary service. I would also like to thank you, and to express my appreciation for the persistent, dedicated and loyal work of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Hungarians can count on their countrymen in all circumstances. Two days ago, on March 15th, we remembered the heroes of the 1848-49 Revolution and War of Independence. Hungary's history, our nation's past, teaches us that we can only succeed with solidarity. This cooperation, and keeping the common goal in mind, is even more necessary today than ever, because we can only defeat the virus by joining forces. Dear fellow Members, I ask you to accept the report on Hungarian military engagement in the peacekeeping mission of the United Nations in Lebanon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-30	Thank you very much, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, author of the Defence Committee. You have the floor, Mónika Bartos.
u2021-03-17-1-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! On 1 March 2021, the Defence and Police Committee discussed the report on Hungarian military engagement in the peacekeeping mission of the United Nations in Lebanon. At that time, my fellow Members and I tabled a proposal for a resolution, in which we proposed that the Honourable Parliament accept this report. Thus, as Mr President has said, I am now present as a member of the National Defence and Police Committee, which proposed the decision, and also as the lead speaker of Fidesz. The Secretary of State has already presented the report proposed for adoption, and also in very detail the background and the circumstances that represent the situation of our soldiers who have travelled or are already there. [[10.30]] However, we can all remember that last November we decided to withdraw the 2006 parliamentary resolution, which, as stated in the explanatory statement, was a legal obstacle to our involvement in the peace mission of the United Nations in Lebanon. At the same time as the parliamentary decision, a government resolution containing the enlargement of the military personnel involved in the Lebanese mission was issued. As emphasised earlier, further strengthening the Lebanese quota is a step in our UN Member State ownership, which will help to develop our bilateral relations with countries in the region concerned. We also know that Lebanon is playing a role in the reception of refugees from conflict zones in the Middle East, because while the country had a population of 5-6 years ago of 4.5 million, it had already reached 6.1 million by 2018 and this increase in population is caused by refugees from war areas. We can also say that last year's extremely tragic events in Beirut have crushed the country, and I believe that this unfortunate topicality is sufficient to see how important it is to see the continued presence of the UN mission in Lebanon and the support that this presence is causing to preserve stability in the country and region. I can only therefore personally support the initiative of our soldiers to take part in the mission in greater numbers than before. Thus, the brief report, which my fellow Members know and the proposal for a resolution proposing its adoption, and its support, I personally strongly suggest, and I ask my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-17-1-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. Once again, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] or indicate that he has already made his speech as a keynote speaker. Yes, thank you very much, Mónika Bartos. Then I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-03-17-1-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Lebanon is not unique from the Middle East states, but unfortunately has been in war conflicts for a long time. Several wars and civil wars have struck those living there. Following the Israeli-Lebanon war in 2006, the UN took over the surveillance of the border between the two parties in order to prevent further conflicts. Recently, the UN Security Council decided to extend its peacekeeping mission in Lebanon in order to maintain stability in the region. At the beginning of the mission, in 2006, Parliament had the power to authorise foreign military engagement. Since then the legal environment has changed, the government currently authorises the application of the Hungarian Defence and Foreign Armed Forces under the Fundamental Law, based on the decision of the European Union or the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, as well as other team movements. The current proposal for a decision increases the number of Hungarian forces involved in the mission if this is required. This is likely to happen, as the Polish National Security Office has already announced last year that Polish and Hungarian soldiers will jointly carry out security activities in the region. The proposal for a decision allows a maximum of 20 participants. It is necessary and should therefore be supported that our country continue to participate in international missions, with military force, aimed at countering and maintaining the security of the Middle East region in the framework of UN cooperation. By doing so, Hungary will actively contribute to maintaining peace in the region and to countering terrorism by fulfilling its international obligation under the UN Charter. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-17-1-34	Thank you very much, Anita Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-17-1-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As has been said, Lebanon is one of the countries facing the greatest challenges in the Middle East region. Hungary and Lebanon established a diplomatic relationship in 1965, and we established our first embassy in Beirut in 1970, and Lebanon itself in 1994 in Budapest. As regards Lebanon, it is very important to say that, thanks to the Taiwanese agreement in 1989, despite the fact that 60 percent of the population are Muslims, it was agreed that 64 Christian representatives would take part in the 128-member parliament and the other 64 Muslim and Drusian parties would form the Lebanese parliament. As the Secretary of State, my fellow Members stressed, the UN has been on the peacekeeping mission since 1978, and Hungary has joined this mission since 2006. Under our Fundamental Law, peacekeeping tasks and activities are decided by the government. As the Secretary of State pointed out, the proposal of the defence portfolio concerns the expansion and construction of the stock, which is a very important objective and must be supported very much, because our country has a very important task in the fight against international terrorism and in the stability of the region. Let me point out that the Hungarian government has supported Christians in Lebanon and their stay in the region through the Hungary Helps programme in more than ten projects. The latest bombing in Beirut in August 2020 resulted in the Hungarian government providing humanitarian assistance through the Hungary Helps program in cooperation with the Syrian Maronita and the Maronite Church in Lebanon. Therefore, the report and the proposal for a decision are supported by KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-17-1-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2021-03-17-1-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As can be seen from the secretary-general's exposé and from the keynote speeches that have been made so far, it is a rare case and a rare presentation which, in a time-to-day way, if we consider it so and politically, is supported in this House as well. Hungarian participation in all UN peacekeeping missions is an important issue for the MSZP from the first minute, and it is still a very important issue in the future, and I think it is also a very important issue in terms of the country's reputation and stability. Therefore, any proposals and any proposals where we confirm the participation of Hungary and the Hungarian Defence Forces in the UN peacekeeping mission will be supported, especially if not only we extend it, but we will also support it. With regard to the big problems in the region and within Lebanon, I think it is a pity to repeat this proposal. Not only last year's disaster, not only civil war events in recent years, but also the refugee crisis makes life extremely difficult for this country and for this region. It is only quietly for you to note that in Lebanon, perhaps most refugees in the world live in proportion to their population, and in addition to all their internal problems, they are trying to cope in this country as well. However, there is no small security risk to the functioning of organisations operating in this country, which are clearly designated by the Union and the United States as terrorist organisations, and therefore, if, somewhere, the justification of the UN peacekeeping mission is there, I think it is unquestionable. Finally, I would like to thank not only the soldiers who have been involved in the past few decades, but also the entire staff of the Hungarian Defence Forces for their persistent and respectable work. Where a Hungarian soldier appears in an international mission abroad, whether in the United Nations or in other missions, our country's reputation is raised, and I think that the Hungarian people and the Hungarian people will be brought only with pride, so thank them from here too. We support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[10.40]]
u2021-03-17-1-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2021-03-17-1-39	[[The congressman is speaking on the bench, but the microphone is not on.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-03-17-1-40	You're about to get your voice. Here.
u2021-03-17-1-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, B/14255. The National Assembly discusses the Hungarian military engagement in the peacekeeping mission of the United Nations in Lebanon. The sum of the report is only that:. Our country is actively involved in the common peace-building tasks carried out by international organisations on the basis of commitments and expectations, in line with the level of ambition set out in the national military strategy. That's all the reports, that's all the reports the Ministry of Defence had to report, especially as we all know that the primary diplomats of our country in the world are our soldiers, because they account for amazing performances in each mission by foreign organizations and their prominent representatives who meet the work of Hungarian soldiers. So the government did not make this report in substance, because this one sentence is not a report, the rest of the report is just a legislative statement, which does not need to be presented to the Members of the House, because they are well known, and the Members of the Parliament have taken those decisions. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Defence did not intend to report on military engagement in peacekeeping activities in Lebanon, I will inform the National Assembly of the Hungarian military engagement in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, through public sources. The Lebanese Multinational Force was an international peacekeeping force established in August 1982 between the Palestinian Liberation Organisation and Israel in 1981 after a ceasefire mediated by the United States to cease their participation in the conflict between the Lebanese pro-government and Syria-friendly factions. The ceasefire lasted until June 3, 1982, when the Abu Nidal Organization tried to assassinate Shlomo Argovo, Israel's London ambassador. Israel blamed the Palestinian Liberation Organization for this and attacked Lebanon three days later. The agreement provided for the deployment of the Multinational Forces to assist the Lebanese armed forces in the evacuation of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation, the Syrian forces and other foreign fighters involved in the civil war in Lebanon. The MNF, composed of four nations, was thus shortened by the establishment of this organization as an intervention force to oversee the peaceful withdrawal of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation, and the Lebanese Multinational Force was also responsible for training the various units of the Lebanese Armed Forces. At the beginning of the mission, the relatively benign environment gave its place to chaos, and when the civil war re-enhanced after the assassination of President Bashir Gemayel in September 1982, this MNF was no longer considered a peacekeeper, and it became clear at the beginning of 1984 that the Government of Lebanon could no longer force its will on the military groups. Therefore, this first mission was completed in Beirut and offshore landed before leaving Lebanon in July. This year, as a result of the barracks bombing in October 1983, 241 American and 58 French soldiers died, and that is why the United Nations Temporary Force in Lebanon, this UNIFIL, which has been in Lebanon since 1978, has taken over the role of peacekeeping until now under the auspices of the United Nations. On 11 August 2006, the UN Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1701 amending UNIFIL's mandate until then. It has expanded by calling on Hezbollah and Israel to cease military action in Lebanon immediately, after the end of hostilities, Israel withdraws its troops, the Lebanese Government and UNIFIL start deploying its forces in the liberated areas, establishing a conflict zone to ensure a ceasefire. The buffer zone involved an area between the so-called Blue Line set up by UNIFIL and the Litani River, where the use of all weapons, means and forces outside the peacekeeping forces of the Lebanese Government and the UN is prohibited. Thus, this extended peacekeeping mission has been approved by the UN and it is now also the task of delivering humanitarian aid supplies to the population and relief organisations. Originally, this mission had a maximum number of 15,000, but in 2020, in the reporting period, which is the current obligation of the Ministry of Defence, the maximum number was reduced to 13 thousand. To get to the part of the Hungarian army and the quality of its participation, I would like to give a few information to the Parliament. On 26 January 2020, it was reported that in those days the preparations for the peacekeeping mission in Lebanon had ended in Szolnok. Between 13 and 17 January, peace-operation training was held for soldiers scheduled for individual assignments in the United Nations mission at the Hungarian Defence Peace Support Training Center in Szolnok. One week's training provided mission-oriented, field-specific training for uniformed men, participants were familiar with, among other things, the historical roots, the development of the conflict in Lebanon, the mandate, the mission's task, the current security risks, the dangers and the cultural and religious specificities of Lebanon. It was possible to process the UN-defined knowledge, including legislation on peace operations, fundamental human rights, the protection of civilians and children, environmental and natural resources, as well as the presentation of UN police forces. With the knowledge acquired, the participants passed an effective test. The preparers have expanded their knowledge of military security in the field and have received useful information on media management and the use of social media in the field of operations. During the course of the course, participants also participated in financial, insurance and customs conferences, and also learned medical knowledge. Then on 28 October 2020, when it was announced that at the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, at the UNP base 2-45, four Hungarian soldiers are currently serving IRISHPOLBATT, the Irish-Polish Battalion tribe, the positions were offered to the Hungarian Defence Forces in November 2019. On 19 June 2020, three Hungarian soldiers arrived in the battalion tribe to take over the service from the first shift, helping both the Irish and Polish parties to do their work. A soldier extended six months to support the easier integration of newcomers and to introduce them to the camp, the country, customs, and the expectations of the leading bodies. Following their arrival, the Hungarian soldiers spent 14 days quarantined in compliance with UN regulations, which could have been left after two negative Covid tests. After taking over their duties, they have begun to carry out their duties. The Hungarians serving on the base are active participants in the sports and cultural events of the camp. On 15 August, the Polish contingent held a brief commemoration on the occasion of the Polish Day of Defence, to which Hungarian soldiers of the battalion were invited, thus strengthening cooperation between nations. In the middle of August, they participated in the UN's voluntary blood donation, which was organized for the victims of the Beirut explosion. Sports events are also held at the camp, such as the, for example, Run, Forrest, run! The five-kilometer running race. The Polish tournament on 26 August and the Irish tournament on 7 October were also a decisive event. In addition to sports, Hungarian soldiers took part in the special shooting exercise organized by the Irish reconnaissance company in October. On 19 January 2021, Polish and Hungarian soldiers serving in the Lebanese mission under the auspices of the United Nations received the peacekeeping medallion on 12 January, approaching the end of their foreign service. At the event, attended by Dr. Géza Mihályi, Ambassador of Lebanon, and Colonel József Gulyás, Military Attaché, four Hungarian soldiers, besides the medallion, received further recognition from the Polish contingent commander for his outstanding work. [[10.50]] After successful joint preparation in Poland, 16 soldiers who will soon finish their mission will carry out peacekeeping tasks as a member of the Polish century in the next six months. So what do we see from this account? It means that not only virtually, not only in words, but also in actions, the Hungarian and Polish people are working together to protect peace in the world's foreign landscapes. On 26 January 2021, it was reported that the main challenge for the world is the coronal virus epidemic, but it should not be forgotten that security challenges were not mentioned by the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade at the UN Peace Building Fund online conference on Tuesday. Péter Szijjártó stressed that increasingly serious wars and conflicts are causing mass migration waves, and this time the wallet manager announced Hungary's contribution to the peacekeeping mission in Lebanon will be increased by 15 soldiers. We could therefore receive this report on why the Ministry of Defence report, which is included in this proposal for a resolution, is so narrow. As you can see, in matters of defence competence, the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade also makes a statement, not only as a first, but as a single one. It is quite difficult to follow who is in charge of the government, because even in the health issues of the epidemic, the Minister of Foreign Affairs reported to the Parliament instead of the wallet for months. For me, HM's report is unacceptable, unduly narrow because of the greatness of the mission, and I will therefore not vote in favour of it. I would accept or accept the accounts of my own accounts by my fellow Members, my fellow Members, my fellow Members with the MSZP and our fellow Member with the KDNP, but this will not be put to the vote by the Speaker of Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-17-1-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. Dear Parliament, Next will be the further speeches by the Members, if any. [[There's no such signal.]] There's no candidate. Dear Parliament, As there is no candidate, the joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask the State Secretary, Szilárd Németh, who is sitting here on behalf of the authors, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-17-1-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank you for the statements made by the factions, which supported the report unanimously. Andrea Varga-Damm, who has just left the meeting room, is a role-making, large-scale woman, but, in fact, I can't do anything about her completely weightless bullshit, so I can't answer that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2021-03-17-1-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. [[Németh Szilárd István: Varga-Damm Andrea report.]] Dear Parliament, The 1995 CXVII on personal income tax follows. The Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/15395. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I would like to give the floor to Katalin Novák, Minister for Families without a wallet, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, who will present her presentation on the pulpit. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2021-03-17-1-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Today is an important day, because today the parliamentary debate is about to begin on the bill that allows people under 25 to enjoy a personal income tax exemption in Hungary from next year. With this step, we give young Hungarians an opportunity that has never been similar in Hungary's history, and I can even say that they are almost unique worldwide, because only in Poland there is a personal income tax exemption for young people after their work income. I could also say that the missing piece of the puzzle will be replaced by this, as we support Hungarian people from conception. This is what family support, baby support, family tax relief, or the CSOK are all about, which young people can claim when the baby is on the way. And then, when the baby is born, then there's the baby bond, there's the maternity allowance, you can still take on the various options of the home creation program, or there's the family allowance, which they also get after the baby's birth. Then, when the child is the age of daycare, there is the free nursery care associated with free children's meals. There is the baby care fee, which will also increase or increase as of 1 July. There is the childcare fee or care allowance for the child. Free meals or special meals not only go to the nursery, but also to the kindergarten and then to the elementary school, and they also receive the textbooks free of charge. They have scholarships at their disposal, they can participate in various talent programs, and now they can take a foreign language exam free of charge, otherwise there are more than 100,000 young Hungarians. They can take a free course in KRESZ and take a KRESZ exam; we have been able to help 85,000 young people here too through this opportunity. Then, if they continue to study, there are student loans and various types of student loans in constantly expanding form, with increasing support for learning either in Hungary or abroad. But if someone learns a profession, there are many scholarships available for them too. And then, for young people between 15 and 25 who work both in addition to learning and regardless of learning, we will give them the opportunity from 1 January next year to bring more money home so that they can earn their income free of personal income tax. So I can say that in this phase of life, too, the missing piece of the puzzle will be replaced, because we will give priority to young people who are still in the process of starting a family, but working, from 1 January next year. After that, if they decide to start a family, we can actually say that the circle has returned to itself, because then there are again the benefits associated with the founding of a family: they can use baby shower support, marriage tax relief, or even student law, so that if they use this opportunity and have children during or after their higher education, and they can also have a HUF 35 million opportunity, mostly with non-refundable support and partly a loan, if they think in a large family, they will have a large family. We now have the opportunity to increase the mobility of young people from 1 January next year. We are given the chance to give young people an even greater financial margin in Hungary, to support young people who work in Hungary, to increase their mobility, and to make more people feel the need to earn money while they are studying. That's what the current bill is about. We have applied a consistent principle in taxation over the last ten years: work income is taxed as little as possible. We've introduced the single-band personal income tax. We want everyone in Hungary to have a job opportunity, to receive decent wages for this work, and to be able to take home as much of this salary as possible, to save as much money as possible and to spend on their families. This is what single-band personal income tax is about, in addition to marriage tax relief, family tax relief, or even the personal income tax exemption introduced from 1 January last year for mothers with at least four children. And now we're going back on this path, we're going to reduce taxes again, and we're going to reduce income taxes again. From 1 January, therefore, we would like to completely eliminate the income-type tax of young people aged 15-25 up to a certain threshold. So this means that they would be exempt from personal income tax. As income from work, not only wages from employment, but also child care premiums, sickness allowance, commission fee, compensation for self-employed entrepreneurs, compensation for the personal contribution of a social contractor, flat-rate income and income from agricultural ancestors' activities can also be taken into account. So there is a wide circle of young people who will be able to enforce the personal income tax exemption. [[11.00]] The discount has a top ceiling, a ceiling, this is the level of the national average gross earnings, which we hope is currently 403 600 HUF, and we expect this to rise slightly further next year. Young people up to the age of 25 may benefit from a personal income tax exemption if this bill is adopted. You can still benefit from the discount in the month you are 25 years of age. We want to place the smallest administrative burden on young people when we introduce the personal income tax exemption, which means that we will automatically enforce the personal income tax exemption, which is done by the employer setting up the tax advance. It is also possible, however, that if the young person wishes to do so, he will be able to enforce this discount in his annual tax return, especially for those who have more than one employer, who have more than one job; they will only have to make a statement in this case, otherwise we will automatically enforce this reduction or exemption on a monthly basis through the tax advance employer. How many people have been involved in this option from 1 January next year and to what extent? It is difficult to respond to the number of people, since we know that between the ages of 15 and 25 there are a little more than one million young people living in Hungary, so there are potentially one million young people who can use this option. We also know that half a million young people now do work on a regular basis, so every other youth in this age group does work at least occasionally, and we also know that there are 280,000 working young people in Hungary regularly. I can say, therefore, that what is certain is that half a million young people currently working and 280 thousand young people working on a regular basis must be positively affected by this opportunity, but, as I said, even one million young people between 15 and 25 years of age can be given greater room for manoeuvre by this amendment. This also includes how much money, how much savings this means for them. If I look at the amount currently earned by young people, then the personal income tax exemption will save about 40 thousand forints per month on average, which is a half million forints per year. So if they can put this half a million forints aside during the years they work, then when they start their lives, when they want to start a family of their own, their financial space can increase significantly. Employment data may also be worth bringing here, as we have seen a significant improvement in the employment data of young people over the last ten years. In 2010, 221 000 people worked from the under 25 age group, in 2020 the number of young people working regularly in the same age group was 280 thousand, so here we saw an increase by more than a quarter, a 26 percent increase, and the employment rate rose from 18.6 percent to 28.1 percent. So here we have seen an increase of almost 10 percentage points in ten years, which is a serious indicator, and we see the same in terms of youth unemployment and the proportion of young people who do neither study nor do work, their number and proportion have also fallen happily over the past ten years. What kind of expenditure would I rather say about how much investment this option represents for the budget, this personal income tax exemption? This, according to our current calculations, could amount to between HUF 130 and 150 billion in budget expenditure, but, as I said, this is not expenditure, it is more of an investment in the future, because this money will be put in the right place, this money will be able to be brought home by young people, this money will increase their margin of manoeuvre. We have also discussed a lot in recent weeks with the organisations representing young people, and we have found that their age group is very positive about this opportunity, precisely because, in contrast to the views of many people, there are a lot of people working alongside learning. It is also very common today, what was fashionable or common in our youth, or in many cases it could have been that someone had to choose this solution, that they were already working at 15-16 years of age, right, with parental permission at 15 years of age, a lot of young people are doing this in addition to learning, and they are happy that their income earned and earned by work will now increase. Many people do some work in student work through school cooperatives, their financial room for manoeuvre increases, and they don't pay any other contributions now, so, in fact, in the future, from 1 January next year, their gross and net wages will be the same as each other, and we will expand the scope and opportunities of the student workers. I also believe that it is in the interests of employers to employ as many talented young people as possible, and that if they know that, as a result of the personal income tax exemption, young people will be able to save more, they will be able to take more home, too, they may be able to make it easier to hire and hire young people. We are therefore confident that the labour market will become even more attractive for young people, and that more people will be looking for such opportunities. To sum up, with the income tax exemption of people under 25, our aim is to encourage young people to work, to earn money at work, and to support their own feet, to start their own lives as soon as possible, if they can get on their own feet as soon as possible, and even to start a family if they feel that the time has come. And we hope that we will also increase their sense of security, because with their mobility, their sense of security can grow in a material and existential sense. I trust that there is no debate here between the representatives of the various parties that Hungarian youth should be supported; now everyone has the opportunity to justify this not only with words but also with actions, and this will be reflected in your support for this bill. So I would ask everyone to help the young Hungarians by voting in favour of the bill, thus allowing young people under the age of 25 to benefit from a personal income tax exemption in Hungary from 1 January next year. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-46	Thank you very much, Minister Katalin Novak. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who also tells his thoughts about the pulpit from here. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-17-1-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of Fidesz is to support young people in as many ways as possible. Our priority is to help young people in as many ways as possible to create their own existence, to get their own home. In order to achieve this objective as soon as possible, the Government has now decided that, from 1 January 2021, young people under the age of 25 will be exempted from paying the average gross national income tax of 15 per cent, so that only social security contributions and even those working under student associations do not even have to be deducted from their gross wages. Young people receive support that is unique in the history of the country. With the measure, a young person working 40 hours a week will increase his salary by HUF 44 thousand per month and by HUF 526 thousand per year. If we take into account about 8 percent of young people who earn less, the average monthly earnings of the entire age group concerned will increase by approximately 40 thousand forints and by nearly half a million forints in one year. A total of half a million young people will benefit from this measure if they vote in favour, i.e. all those working in a shorter period or part-time in a given year. At national economic level, if the gross average wage increase projected for next year is included, HUF 150 billion will remain an additional income for young people under the age of 25. Fidesz has been supporting young people from the beginning. The employment protection action in force from 1 January 2013 to 2018 was the first measure to provide a special discount for the employment of people under 25 years of age. The aid was then granted to the employer by the State releasing half the social contribution tax on wages. [[11.10]] In these years, the employment rate of 15-24-year-olds increased from 18.4 percent to 29 percent and their unemployment rate fell from 26.4 percent to 10.2 percent. The unemployment rate in the age group was 11.5 percent even in the fourth quarter of 2020, which is much lower than the EU average, my fellow Members. In comparison, this ratio was 26.8 percent in 2010 at home. The employment of young people can only increase significantly if we think not only of the current unemployed, but also of the students, given that the proportion of those working in Hungary alongside their higher education is low. And students, we know well, only take a job if, for one or two days a week, when their school obligations allow, their earned income is so high that it is worth it to them to take on this extra burden. From an employer's point of view, an initial training is always an extra cost, especially when it is not full-time employment. These burdens can also be reduced by this measure, as it leaves 15% of the young worker with the discount. Ladies and gentlemen, During left-wing governance, young people did not receive any support, but were always taken away from them. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP government freed the KRESZ and the language exam, enabled young people to benefit from a reduced student loan, which is released under certain conditions, supported by family support, and, in the event of the adoption of the current bill, young people under the age of 25 will be fully exempted from paying personal income tax as part of the economic restart action plan. In the light of the above, we see that the government is committed to supporting young people with real measures to achieve their independence as soon as possible, both in terms of continuing their studies and their functioning in the labour market and in terms of starting a family. We in the Fidesz fraction know that all help is useful for this age group, so we, for our part, support any proposals that can give young people new facilitations. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a concept similar to that of mothers with four or more children living from the beginning of last year, which will mean a 22 percent increase in the income of young adults, as I said, and the wages of those working in student organisations next year will not be subject to tax on contributions. Based on the basic salary of the age group, it will save up to half a million forints per year, so I ask my honourable left-wing fellow Members to keep this in mind when they vote. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't you talk to us anymore?]] Then you will have to answer to support the young Hungarians in action, or you will always have to be a mouthful. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: A little more restraint!]] Answer me, ladies and gentlemen of the left, when they say their speeches to support young Hungarians, yes or no! [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] The Fidesz Group supports this tabled proposal, as we have supported and will continue to support any proposal that serves the prosperity, progress and growth of Hungarian people, including young people. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-03-17-1-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2021-03-17-1-49	Mr President, Dear House, Before I respond to the unscrupulous words I have just said, I would like to ask where the Minister is. [[Róbert Zsigó: Government meeting!]] What the hell do you think this is gonna be all the time? [[Robert Zsigó: He's in a government meeting!]] Mr President, my fellow Member, to put you in an awkward position [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] that as Secretary of State, you should represent what the Minister does not want. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] It does not participate in the debate in the many cases, which shows how important the situation of young people and family support is for this government. You are creating a net spectacle bakery, where proposals that are woven with rhetorical elements that seem to sound, are typically brought in here in liquefying, making sure that as few people as possible can use them, and then so much respect for the community, Parliament, and even the genre that this whole thing would be about. The secretary's not here again, she's not here for many times. By the way, the answers to the written questions are drawn up in the same style as those produced by my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai. Although it is not my place to defend our left-wing fellow Members, to us, to the right-wing opposition as you did not speak, let us consider it a collective stigmatisation of the opposition. What is this proposal that lies before us about? By the way, I'm gonna support this, and I'd like to push this forward, even if the original idea has been derailed and pitifully weakened, even so. This proposal concerns the fact that, before the legislative elections in 2022, it will ring in bank accounts for approximately HUF 25,000 in minimum wage. Fellow Members! Why did you bring this proposal in now when we said it here in Parliament two years ago? It wasn't the same, it was a little better, it was a total non-sai-free situation in 29 years. Mr. Jigsho! Why did you not support this proposal then? Stand up and answer that which hasn't been in a crisis for two years... don't laugh. Don't laugh, it's very serious. Pull yourself together and give me a professional answer. Two years ago, not in a time of crisis, with wider budgetary resources, you have not supported the same thing that you are now bringing to Parliament in a crisis year in a big voice, liquefying. We're gonna vote for the people under 25. Just put that giant vest down, please. Because this proposal is not new, they could have left the extra resources with Hungarian young people for years, but you did not support it and did not want it. Now it will be possible to yell, stand up, ask for a word, and explain that two years ago, when this proposal came in as a much wider, stronger proposal, then why did they not dare to support it! What was the reason why they were cowards to support young Hungarians two years ago and years ago? I mean, let's just say that being under 25 is a good thing. But we also have to say that on the other hand, the same age group has been punished by this government with a tremendous number of steps, and Mónika Dunai cannot answer them either. After all, the state aid for housing savings has been destroyed by your government, eliminated, doseredged. And you know very well that there are a lot of economists and experts working in your country to gather a lot of young people with this, the Fundamenta and other LTP methods, say, the CSOK component or the opportunity to gain a home in Hungary by collecting a part of itself. They said here in Parliament that these systems and companies do not work so effectively. I agree, it wasn't an efficient operating model that took place on the LTP front. But the solution is not to dooze it, eliminate it, and then put nothing in its place, but to improve such a system. You, too, were here personally in Parliament at the time, during the debate on the abolition of the LTP, Antal Rogán's house lotto was proposed that it would replace house savings. Now, there's no shouting, is there, fellow Members? Because you also feel that Antal Rogán's home lottery was unable to replace the state leg of housing savings. If you had a little reality in addition to neoliberal insensitivity, Then you would know that in the case of condominiums, a typical life situation is far from you, but I would like to show you how, in the case of a boiler change, a condominium has changed the boiler in the vast majority of the last ten years. By adding this to a common account with state-supported housing savings, the State had very rightly added something up, and finally it was able to make that desired investment. Your state support for this has been abolished. Once again, the negative impact on the masses of young people is that you have eliminated this. At all, the housing cataclysm is maintained, and their chemical neoliberal support model also applies to CSOK. Ministers can build a holiday home and raise ten million-dollar funding, and then explain that it's not a vacation home. Let's take it. Still, it is not certain that a CSOK would have been designed to be taken up by our non-necessary compatriots for hundreds of millions or even hundreds of millions of real estate. [[11.20]] Perhaps we can agree that your senior management is not in need of the CSOK. I do not mean to say that they do not comply with the legislation in force. But, live, and I am not sorry for you, but I would like to get out of these sentences that people in difficult situations do not have access to these sources. You don't think about people living in the apartments, you don't think about people who can imagine their lives in a flat in a much wider space, even with another child. You are thinking clearly of the lucky people, the rich, they can maximize the discount weight, and for those who are in a difficult situation who really need a reduced loan. That's what I'm saying. It's a chemically pure neoliberal economic model, and that's your family support system. In the old days, we should have put up a joint rental program in Hungary, so that the few hundred thousand young people who are flirting with the idea of forced emigration can get real life opportunities at home. My fellow Members, they will not buy a newly built residential property with a CSOK, like you, they will not, because they cannot. They collected the few million forints that could be used to enter this world with LTP-supported methods. They've lost their sense of reality if they think they don't need a message. What we see is that we're arguing about sia-free, we think they've grounded this model, but we're gonna support it. Optimistic scenario, 30-40-50 thousand forints remain in the hands of a young man. That's a good thing, so let's not discuss what's good. However, perhaps we should agree that young people without a vision, who cannot get a single home alongside the Hungarian wage level, will not decide to stay home because of the 30-40-50 thousand forints, but, let us say, if the minister does not withdraw from the debate, if they are honored, if they also send meaningful social messages, if they take into account constructive opposition proposals. Mónika Dunai said that they will vote for everything in the interests of young people. Two years ago, I submitted that state savings for housing should return to a normal model. Why didn't they vote? Why did they vote against young Hungarians? And my problem with all of this is they're bringing in visual bakery batteries. Before the elections, I'll tell you once again, one or two thousand forints will be in the minimum wage bill, but why didn't you need this model in a much more sophisticated, modern package than yours did two years ago? Explain it to me! And then there was a lot more resources available in this case. However, we also see that the world of work, the world of workers and employers, is not so familiar with this government at close range, because there is no guarantee that the employer will not swallow this discount in the package that has been submitted. For example, what the government is doing and what it says to those who will be told at the next raise that you, my friend, are now tens of thousands of forints below with the discount, you will not get a raise now, even though you are working more, working better. I'm not saying that we should use command to interfere in the privacy of companies, because that's far from me. As a market-friendly viewer and economist, I might be able to tell some of my fellow Members how this world works at close range, but I would certainly say that a fair monitoring system would be needed to examine what adversely affecting workers is going to happen. We also see that the government is bringing in this proposal, but it does not miss the opportunity to commend its own family support system, even though if a family support system could be appreciated by something, those demographic figures, and these demographic figures are unfortunately deplorable, catastrophic. What the government always does is wait a year after the deep-flying years, when fortunately, a small setback occurs, and then, in a multitude of editorials, he tells us that there has been a huge demographic trend shift, and that the number of live births has increased. They forget to say that the current minimum increase unfortunately does not allow even the 2016 level to be reached. Something is very wrong with the demographic aspect of Hungary's Government, as the number of live births is almost always decreasing. In the last ten years, two small humps have been observed, one of which is a very well-introduced system of family tax incentives, and the other is a very well-introduced system of baby shower support. Both of the temporary effects of about one year could increase the number of live births by around 2,000, but once again, it was not enough, my fellow Members, to reach the 2016 level again. There is therefore a constant fall, and here comes a proposal for the baby shower, which I have submitted, which is a perfectly logical proposal, since you, Secretary of State Zsigó, tell us that everything must be supported by women in the 35-45 age group, who are now running out of age when they are still able to have children, and their support is of national interest. I agree with that, but the fact is that you calculated the baby shower support and put in an age limit that will cut the last large 35-45 age group in half and exclude 65 thousand Hungarian women from the possibility of hiring the baby shower. I have tabled an amendment to remove this pointless age restriction, including the 65,000 women who wish to have children and receive support for it. Mr. Nacha, what have you done? They did not come to the committee meeting, where this proposal could have been discussed, boycotted the meeting with their absence. Shame and shame! Then don't lecture us about family politics when they don't go to work. What do you think of yourselves, that in such an important proposal, Hungarian women who would otherwise be entitled to this support will be punished by absenteeism? ! But here, before Secretary Zsigó, the opportunity is to answer, to support the removal from the baby shower credit of the pointless age limit, because there is only one reason for this limitation, saving. You want to save on the beneficiaries on the most important issue of national strategy. My colleague from the Danube, I am in favour of the four-year-old mother's absence. The fact is, Prime Minister, if you recall, that is not what you were talking about. Remember? Viktor Orbán campaigned with the three-year-old mother's absence, but then you calculated that this might be a little expensive, so let's look at a age group and social group where there are fewer. They found those with significant and, unfortunately, significantly fewer four children, where half of the age group concerned is not necessarily an active labour market player due to the upbringing of the four children. So they chose a sufficiently narrow age group, directed the discount instead of a camp of three children with such a large camp of four children, and then advertised themselves with it, while the promise of their own prime minister was not about that. Discuss this in-house, but I ask you that there is a budget space for this, try to extend this system, but until at least you keep your original promise, please do not lecture us, but think about why you are saving money on the beneficiaries. I do not want the various benefits of the family support system to be taken away and the fact that many resources are grouped here, I am glad, I am not at all a counter-prizer, which I think is a record in the Hungarian world, is that despite so many of the resources that have been grouped here, so little results have been achieved. It's something quite amazing, because you think money can fix everything. This is not the case. There is a need for a housing programme, a need for public rest, a desire for a young person to live in a country, a desire to have a family, the idea of forced emigration should not be considered, and at all, a climate must be developed that does not want to use violence to educate others to make family policies, but is motivated, motivated, supported and assisted. It's just that all of your appearances, your educational videos, that amazing big vest you're wearing, I'm afraid it's gonna scare a lot of people away from what you want, and I want the Hungarian demographic trends to happen. But, fellow Members, this requires empathy and patience, not a lecture, because unfortunately there are no results that you could be proud of. Once again, Hungaricum and negative record, so many budgetary resources are being sacrificed to achieve so little results. The thing is, the social network needs to be patched back up if you're here to get results. For example, we do not need to evict 14,000 families without accommodation, because they are equally valuable people with family goals, childbearing plans, only you took them away from them. There is no need to eliminate state savings for housing purposes, to exclude women from baby shower support, and at all, to broaden the whole support system, to rationalise the whole support system, and not necessarily over your neoliberal model, not by using tens of millions of people in the case of ministerial payments to CSOK, but to help those who really need it, that is the solution. If you come up with a package like this, we'll support you. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-17-1-50	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. [[11.30]]
u2021-03-17-1-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Who honors Parliament, my fellow Member Daniel Z. Carpathian? Well, people who scream, wave potatoes, throw change in Parliament don't respect him. These are those who do not respect the Hungarian Parliament, not those who, by the way, submit such serious legislative proposals and, by the way, decide the most important decisions, questions and questions of vaccine procurement at the government meeting, based on the opinion of the epidemiological experts. So, I think that you here have some accountability for the respect of Parliament. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I counted, I got to 15, while you were using the word "sleeped out" and then I stopped counting. I understand that this is the most common word in your Presidency meetings, because you have looted the former national party that was once a national party. I understand that this is the most important word for you at your Bureau meetings, but it should not be applied to this bill, more so for your party. You are, and have been, constantly attacking, for example, home-building schemes, the CSOK, as Jobbik did not vote for before. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Of course we did! What are you talking about? Look into the record.]] And you say in a loud voice here, Congressman, that you voted for everything. In the same way, they did not vote for a 2.5-fold increase in the budget for family support since 2010. There's a vote every year. We now spend more than 2500 billion forints on families, and every year there is such a vote, when we award these money, we get it to the Hungarian families. This vote on the budget, on which you, on every occasion, honourable left-wing Members, vote 'no'. So, if it were up to you, you might have four-year-old mothers with no rights, a home-building discount, a family tax allowance, a child's extra and I could put it on the list, but there wouldn't be any resources, because you don't want to provide a source for it, because every year it's voted off. You're saying that the government wants to save on the discounts, which is obviously a completely wrong and nonsense claim. I just told you that we've increased the family allowance by 2.5 times. If there is a government that does not save on the subsidies granted to families, it is the Fidesz-KDNP government, because you know that in 2010, in the last socialist budget, the amount spent on families did not reach HUF 1000 billion, while now HUF 2500 billion is available to Hungarian families, and this amount has only increased every year under the Fidesz-KDNP governments. What was the youth and youth policy of the socialist governance of Gyurcsány before 2010? You can leave from here; you can leave us here; we will be fine with the pensioners; this quote comes from Ferenc Gyurcsány. This was his policy against the young Hungarians: he was able to leave, he was not interested in the young Hungarians, and it was evident from every decision they made, it was clear from every decision that Congressman Varju had put forward, voted in favour, and which the socialist MEPs sitting here were enthusiastically voting for. Let us see, honourable Member, who you are now trying to help back into power, how you have dealt with young people, but let us take a look at the example of personal income tax. In 2008, a young worker aged 25 years received 55.5 percent of his gross salary. Now, from 2022, if this bill is passed, you will receive 81.5 percent of your gross salary. There is a huge difference, fellow Members, that is what we are talking about. This is true support for young people, that while half of their gross salary has been taken away by the socialists, the gross salary for a young person will now be reduced by only 18,5 percent. By comparison: a young worker's gross salary of HUF 300 thousand was HUF 166 500 net in 2008, while at the same gross wage it would be HUF 244 500 in 2022. This is 78 thousand forints higher a month, my fellow Members. This extra income will be a huge opportunity and enormous help for young people in the process of starting a life, becoming an adult, saving and creating a home and a family. That is what matters, honourable Member, and you have not said a word about the fact that your current allies, who you wish to bring back to power with your teeth and nails, have treated young people with what tax rates have been introduced, because you are regularly talking about a multi-key tax system, but the fact is that under the Gyurcsánys, the lowest key to the multi-key tax system was higher than the single-key tax system. Moreover, in the middle of a crisis period, the lowest rate of personal income tax was raised, which affected the most vulnerable people, the least wanted people, most disadvantaged. While we are talking now in the midst of an epidemic and an economic crisis about how we are trying to help young people, how to reduce sija, as we had reduced last year, mothers with four children have abolished their obligation to pay for their whole lives, we are talking about how to reduce their personal income tax for young people, while Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai thought that the least earners should raise their personal income tax in the middle of the crisis. Nor did you mention this, honourable Member, why you would like to bring them back into power, and what the youth policy and tax policy of the socialists look like in this context. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Because that's when the family tax breaks were lifted, and that's your plan right now. You have created the lowest alliance in the history of Hungarian politics, and from then on all of your sentences will be shared. András Fekete-Győr announced that he would cut the family tax relief of three and more children. For a father of three, four, mother of four, there would be 55,000 forints less tax relief if you came to government. This is your program. That is how you stand on family support, so you stand on tax incentives, precisely because I want to bring back the failed and bad aid-based economic policy and job creation attitude that was before 2010, when youth unemployment was skyrocketing. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What Christian Democratic Lying...]] On the other hand, the current government is constantly reducing taxes; it has introduced housing benefits, instead of those that the socialists have abolished, also referring to the crisis. He also did not mention, Mr President, that the favourable housing loans had been abolished, that the constructions known as Socpol had been abolished, that the constructions related to the creation of a home had otherwise been abolished, with which a family had been able to start. What's left? Harmful foreign exchange credit schemes. That's what's left because of all the other family support systems [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: 14,000 families were evicted from his home...]] I've been wiped out. This is the policy of Gyurcsány, family and youth policy: take it away, abolish it, and then leave it at the mercy of the banks, since Gyurcsány Ferencné Dobrev Klára [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] announced recently that the banks were saved in the 2008-2009 crisis, not the people. Well, what do we expect from you now, together, in an alliance? ! During the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, youth unemployment was three times as high as it is now. Tens of thousands of young people were forced into humiliating unemployment on purpose. When we see that southern states, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece, are struggling with high youth unemployment, we are in the top five places in the European Union in view of the unemployment rate for young people, while youth unemployment was three times as high in your time. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you saying?!]] I think that the facts speak for themselves, what you have done for young people, and what we do for young people. We know that many of the elements of the family support system would be abolished, that if they were on government, this has been announced on numerous occasions, said on numerous occasions. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why lie?]] I didn't hear you separate yourself from the sentences of András Fekete-Győr in connection with the family support system... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I was separated from you...]] I didn't hear him separate himself from threatening right-wing journalists in an existential way. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] You're obviously insensitive to these things, socially sensitive to everything else, and you think I, for example, don't know what it's like to change a boiler in a condo or an insulation. I know that all my life I've lived in a condominium, so, Congressman, address your accusations to your billionaire friends and your millionaire party president. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You, listen! Drugs are bad! Demercation from the benches of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] As a result of your policy, a tuition was introduced, called a developmental contribution. So there's tuition. You would bring back the system that hit young people with tuition during that period, Congressman. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I think that there was no chance of starting a single life, of starting a family, of creating a home at the time, because the fundamental principle of socialist politics was that having children was synonymous with poverty in Hungary, and, thank God, this is no longer the case today. [[11.40]] Our aim is to ensure that family support affects the broadest, widest layer, most of us can help to raise children, start life, create homes and live in the family, because we believe that family life is a great and supportive way of life in Hungary. As Minister said, the final piece of the puzzle will be replaced, it was a very important sentence, because we can see what opportunities are available for young people, elderly people and children in home creation, family tax incentives, various family support systems. I think that the freedom of people under the age of 25 is a step that will enable us to support their work and student work after the free KRESZ exam, after the free language exam, so that we can contribute to an independent start in life. The debate on a very important bill has begun, and it is very important that we show them unitedly that the Hungarian Parliament does think about young people and help them. That you have not voted in favour of the measures so far, we know that, but let this be different, and do not forget that Hungarian young people had received only bad from those governments before 2010, they were given only difficulty, austerity and humiliation, while now Hungarian young people can count on the Fidesz-KDNP government with constant discounts, the start of life and the support for home creation. KDNP will also support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. The next lead speaker is László Szakács, on behalf of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman Cook.
u2021-03-17-1-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to this debate, of course, many things come to mind, but first of all, it must be pointed out that, of course, it can be supported if the income situation of young people improves at any level. And we're gonna do that. But if you wrap this up in this how do I put it? Onion, a little smeared how do I say it? in a package that almost suggests that you are, of course, absolutely certain that the current social and demographic situation will be resolved by this proposal, but in itself, if you think that is the case, it is obviously a mistake. Now, I'd rather not say any more than that, I think more about it, but I wouldn't say any more about it. First, government communication was about 60,000 forints remaining with young people, then Mónika Dunai said that around 40,000 forints, then my fellow Member Nacsa spoke of 70-80 thousand forints. Let's see the numbers. You say that the upper limit of this is that, as long as this tax reduction can be used, this is the average salary for the national economy, last June, and then when it can be used next year, it will be the average earnings for June this year. This was HUF 401 847 last year, this year, if the average earnings go up, let's not rule out how they're going up, this will be somewhere around HUF 400-430 thousand for as long as this tax reduction can be used; so the maximum amount you're always talking about is the maximum amount. I mean, they're slipping here that you guys are always saying the maximum of three species today, and then it turns out that this could be, like, three species. You know, as in the advert, that you can use this from this amount of forints. Now, I don't think I'm gonna tell you a secret, or, if I am, I'm gonna take the cover off of this. It doesn't really make 400-430 thousand forints, and it certainly doesn't make a lot of money in the country. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The upper limit! The president's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, it's the upper limit, but you guys talk about it all the time. But thank you for understanding what I'm talking about. By the time he reaches this rent around 430 thousand forints, he'll be 25 years old by then. That's why you guys are back on top of it, because, if possible, few, well, cheaply, you can make a good campaign promise with that, because that's what this is really about. If it weren't a campaign promise, you wouldn't say that now, my fellow Member Nacsa, that we are reducing taxes in the middle of the crisis. No, I didn't. Next January 1st. You will be reduced from January 1st next year. Should we still be in the middle of a crisis? Or is it January 1st of next year? In fact, it's a good campaign promise, and they're trying to reach out to voters and voters, and that leaves us with all that we can say that, of course, if the income situation of young people can be improved, we will support it, but I trust you to know precisely that, in comparison to the rites you have made here, it is a much more complex thing. What did you tell the young people? Helping to grow up, to make homes, to start a life. Well, it's a much more complex thing to help young people do, than you'll be releasing personal income tax until they're 25 years old to the average wage. Where's the chance? Where is access to public services, even under subjective rights? Where is the raising of the minimum wage to a European level so that, let's say, there is no less than EUR 750 for a beginner in Hungary, for a young person? Where's the rent ceiling? Where's a rental building program where they can start their lives? But to get even further back, where is the situation of a chance-creating education that would certainly show these young people a proper career? Not the career that is now, that when it is born, where it is born, it actually determines its destiny. 'Cause you know, I'm telling you once again, among the smearful speeches here, that it doesn't matter that someone, say, is born in Budapest. Or in the first district, or downtown, or, like, South Baranya. [[To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] And if my honourable fellow Member pulls his eyebrows together like this, then I suggest that we go to Drávastára together someday, and then you will be able to reassure the people there that if they earn 430,000 forints, then that's what the young people will get as a siya-credit, because you know they are so restless, so you can come with me, we'll go to the Ormans, and you can talk to the voters there. I think this is a campaign promise. We will support it, because if we can improve the income situation of young people, then, of course, it needs to be improved. But we all know that this is a campaign promise, and if it weren't, it wouldn't be happening next January 1st, it would be coming into force now. Let me respond to one or two more things that have been said here. Youth unemployment. My fellow Member Nacsa said how much less unemployment is now among young people, how much less unemployment is in Hungary. We thank the employers in London, Vienna, Frankfurt and Berlin for this, where the young Hungarians are, who were not, by the way, drawn home to what they were? Come home, young!-program, if I remember correctly, there was one. Just so we can mention such things, I remember the, come home, young!, on a man came home, the Andy Vajna, only he was not so young. But these programs didn't work out, but they weren't so hugely successful. We must say that you do not offer a better feeling, a more pleasant climate, equal opportunities, but you have not even raised the services you have not touched in, say, 12 years. You guys always go back tens of years. Why couldn't you raise your family allowance in that time? Anything on the subject? Why couldn't you lift it with a penny? Not the child, not the law. Is there a rental building program? Is there a rent ceiling? Is there a place where young people can start their lives? Or do you now think that sometimes it will be 40, sometimes 60, sometimes 80,000 forints? So we think, of course, that this is a proposal to support, even if we know that this is part of a campaign. [[11.50]] However, we would like to draw attention to the fact that the appreciation of young people, as you have put it, is a much more complex thing to support growing up, creating homes, starting life, which includes creating opportunities, accessible education, higher education, including all kinds of benefits on subject law or even access to public services. And believe me, fellow Members, it also goes in a different way, let us say, to access public services in North Baranya. I'm talking about such gentlemanly pranks here at XXI. In the 18th century, such as public transport, drinking water, drinking water or even sewage, or even heating, I shouldn't talk about it or anything like that. To create this kind of chance, we believe that a much more complex, thought-out path leads to a solution, here we clearly see that you do not want to solve the social crisis or the demographic crisis, making a campaign promise in a segment where your party's support is clearly and measurably lower, and so you do. We will support it because it will improve the income situation of young people, but it must be pointed out that there is a much more complex treatment for young people in Hungary.
u2021-03-17-1-54	Thank you very much, Congressman László Kács. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2021-03-17-1-55	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, We have the great honour of witnessing another work by Dr. Semyen, who is very much preparing for a hunting exhibition for pets, and he has honoured us by taking an initiative, and we must now take an opinion on it. This must be very important, for everything that is shown by its activity must be covered with something. There's got to be something, something important, that people pay more attention to than flying deer. And then they'll come up with opportunities, and they'll start talking about how important young people are to you. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and who meets his very important obligation, sits in a government meeting and makes important decisions. Although I would add that if you didn't make any decisions lately, and you would rather leave the vaccination to those professionals, such as doctors, and they would solve the problem of providing them with the vaccine, and then they would do what you seem to be completely unable to do. They can't solve the minimum of having the conditions for their work. Now, we're witnessing the same thing here, by the way, what you're doing is doing something so covert, let's just say something so popular has been submitted. Frankly, I recommend that everyone who gets it, take it, and take it, and vote for the opposition, forget the Fidesz, because, by the way, your problem, my dear friend, has not been solved by the Fidesz, and I would like to detail this here later, by joining my opposition fellow Members, who, unlike you, seem to have problems a little bigger than what you can do after ten years, after ten years, some sort of solution, or, I'm sorry, some sort of veil instead of a solution. But let us begin with the story of once again witnessing a law, a proposal for which no impact assessment has been prepared. By the way, people who pay attention to what amendments you are willing to support here pay attention to finding out and echoing exactly how many people are affected here, and who can get this discount in this sense. So there are about 250,000 people and young people who can be affected by this and have a budget effect of HUF 150 billion. I will tell you so quietly in parentheses that yesterday, at the Committee on Budgets' meeting, it was my initiative, because it has a significant impact on the budget, so this is a topic that deserves an overview of later ones as well. At the time, the answer was that it was not necessary to discuss it, and the pro-government representatives did not want to deal with it. But they really don't care, because they're not here, so they don't care about what you guys are saying here, big talk about how important it is. They do not wish to form an opinion on this matter. What was more interesting, however, was the second agenda when it was a proposal to amend a specific budget, and then, honourable Member, it was argued that Members should not submit any amendments, because they are not competent, only the government understands the budget, and they will tell us what is sure. Now, here too, Dr. Semyen, although Deputy Prime Minister, we can rely on his experience, we all have important skills that he has mastered, and with a good aim, he finds and hits all the important things. Well, he was the one they found in this case, and he was the most credible guy who had to do it. But the consequence of this is that, since we are talking about a non-governmental proposal, there is really no serious background to this story; and if you would not only give us political arguments from that side, then I would also start to make professional arguments. Because if the Minister had referred to the fact that young people's organisations were talking to someone other than the Secretary of State, they would have realized that young people would not have submitted such a proposal as one of the elements of a pre-election set of ideas. But I suggest you take it, and then forget about the Fidest. So from this approach, I would like to continue by saying that what is being introduced into the tax system as an amendment in this way is a very important amendment, and although there is no one here from either the Ministry of Finance or anyone else who understands this, and with the consequences of that, you are actually making a decision that breaks the neutrality of tax incentives, and this, I believe, is not just a one-year problem, but a lot more. But you're gonna start this. Let's do it. Let's do it. The discounts are unpredictable in bringing degressivity into the system, since they give discounts to people who have not had it before. This solution, which is done in this way, is regulation, which provides tax relief up to the average gross earnings level of July of the previous year, right, because the trick is that it doesn't come with a full income, only to one level. You can't imagine that there might be a young person with a high level of performance that could benefit from it, and it would really give us a new opportunity to start a meaningful life. In addition, I would not impose any further tax benefits on the Secretary of State and Congress, but would I draw your attention to the fact that it may not have occurred to you to help young people in the field of education by raising the 16-year school obligation? Because this was the real step that you will be able to take from one side, with the downsizing of universities, without denying even Congressman Nacsa will be able to follow the figures that, let's say, compared to the number of university staff 15 years ago, there are fewer people today, let's say, among the members of a university system that has been disintegrated with a sufficient method, and they are determined to make the children stand next to the working benches, not to the university, and to end up there. [[12.00]] By the way, this proposal, which you have just put forward, supports this. In fact, it makes them particularly interested in not learning, but going to work as soon as possible, because otherwise, you will have more income. I would be curious; for example, the impact assessment could have shown the willingness that the Minister here said in a sentence that the young people would then put that aside, and in what way they would use it for a start-up after they were 25 years of age. So let it be clear to Mrs President that we clearly support young people on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, but frankly, they could have had a better idea than this more transparent idea, because we also wanted to support it to be something. But we're gonna do this, and you don't have to think about it much anymore. They'll be fine without thinking about it, they've already been divorced, there's no need for it. The future will come. And the young people who will take your place will be the ones who will do this. This, I think, certainly highlights that yes, when you really do not have an answer to your unemployment, when you cannot do what you do with the fact that the young people are emigration and are not staying at home, then, frankly, the few tens of thousands of HUF monthly benefits are likely to be expected, and you will be happy to do so, and who, by the way, will be able to look for a multiple of them, whether instead of studying or after studying abroad, then you have had to give them up, but I think you have long since given up; because you are unable to think about them in a system where you do not want to cover problems with a momentary veil, but instead of finding a place for meaningful solutions. By the way, Parliament, I say, is for this, and governance is for this very reason that decisions are made not only with a moment's instinct, but also with thought, in a systematic manner, just so that there is a solution from the point of view of young people. After all, their problems are much more obligated to study than I mentioned in your environment, unemployment, and if it is what I could say to you that you are fellow accomplices, that property prices have reached a level that makes young people's chances of starting their lives, let's just say without family support, let's just say that they are not possible. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But by the way, Mr Secretary of State is probably about to pop up, describe the preferences that have been introduced and put only one thing there, Mr Secretary of State. [[To Róbert Szigó:]] Look over here for a second, please. [[Róbert Zsigo turns to László Varju.]] See this graph? [[He's showing me a graph.]] If you look here, 15 years ago, more than 40,000 apartments were granted to be used, now you, together with all your discounts, have been able to reach half of it in the last year. Do you understand? So that's about what you, let's just say, is the result of your current ideas, which basically leads us here instead of thinking about, by the way, what are the real problems that need to be dealt with. And then I didn't talk about the time going very far, which, as a consequence... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Congressman, I have listened to you with great patience. Honestly, it's gonna take a lot of peace, but don't yell at me, 'cause then I'm gonna lose it, too, and then it's gonna have consequences, you know. So please, Mr. President, let the congressman know that...
u2021-03-17-1-56	Go on, Congressman.
u2021-03-17-1-57	Thank you so much for your help, Mr. President. So the anomalies that are, by the way, 25-year-old workers that you now reward and support, and even draw them into that pipe, so that you don't study, children, come by the workbench, because you will be free of taxes; and what happens to those who otherwise accept this and arrive at work? Do you know what employers' first thought is? Now, we're gonna start with less wages, okay? And since you guys, let's just say you get more with that kind of discount, you don't have to deduct personal income tax, then there's a possibility. And that is why I could say that even if I did not consider what you are doing here as a veil, but as a serious intention, then I would say that, precisely because of the lack of studies, they would actually create a background for such a proposal, then they might notice that there will be no impact on what you are otherwise, in a way that you are quoting, even with good intentions. So whatever you have just presented, whatever your intentions are, I am afraid that you will not give the young people a solution, but you will not be able to do so, but as I have said, there is no need for you to think much about it. Thank you very much. We'll solve this problem. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2021-03-17-1-58	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the group of the LMP, will be given a speech. You have the floor.
u2021-03-17-1-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, In summary, what I can say about this bill is that it is an idea-like, campaign-like amendment to the tax system. And yet, I can't take this the wrong way, I can't talk about it with a bad taste in my mouth, because it looks like the Fidesz-KDNP Association finally understood the need for a multi-key tax system. And I think it's a very, very important thing. The reduction of the burden on wages has always been important for LMP, and since we can represent the interests of Hungarian society in Parliament, we have submitted every year our proposal that the personal income tax system should be a progressive, multi-key tax system, multi-band, because it can fairly reduce the tax burden on our lower-income fellow citizens. And what we see is that in this bill, in this amending proposal, you created the two-key tax in the first place. This means that young people will pay two keys up to the average wage. With a zero-percent key to the average wage, and above that, a well-known 15 percent. I think that this is almost good, not quite yet, but it is almost good, because let's face it, social policy objectives cannot be achieved with a single-key tax. This is what this bill, this amending proposal, clearly and irreparably justifies. Please confirm that this proposal is almost similar to the proposal submitted by LMP, which is three-key and does not exactly share the different keys, but let us see what this is about. The minimum wage earners would earn 26 700 HUF more than in your one-key, or now almost one-and-a-half or two-key tax system. With an average median wage of HUF 300 thousand gross, the same surplus would be HUF 33 700 net, and even the gross earners of HUF 500 000 could take significantly more home with HUF 42 600. [[12.10]] I think that's the right thing to do. That's good, because, yes, there's a name for it. from your point of view, our countrymen who earn over a million forints in the LMP tax system should pay more taxes. It is true that the tax exemption would apply to them up to the minimum wage, and the reduced, 12 percent second key would also be a profit for them, another question is that in the case of a 25 percent key over a million forints, this would have to be paid. Therefore, I say that I am pleased with this bill, because it has clearly been proven that you have acknowledged that a key cannot achieve social policy goals. Moreover, these advantages, which I have been talking about, are without any concessions, because there is no question that we would retain the benefits that are currently in force. It is worth a moment to think about how to proceed, because, ladies and gentlemen, the reduction in personal income tax for people under the age of 25 today is very small, and today the country is in an economic situation where everyone should receive this discount. That is why, as an amending proposal, we will present the tax system that we developed a few years ago, and yes, which is three-key. It is true that we do not want to lie to either four-key or one-key, unlike yours, I can now say that with a two-key tax system. It is very, very important to increase the income of small earners in this economic crisis. Yes, it is very important, because there is a gap between the lower decades and the top decades of Hungarian seekers, which the Hungarian economy has never seen before your government. And yes, before the Secretary of State or any of my fellow Members say that there is no source for this, there is a source, because the funds can be provided. Practically by drastically reducing tao money, taxes on large companies and the environment can already be created at HUF 150 billion. I think that our tax system would be much more transparent and easier and fairer. I think that this is about the end of the speaker's speech to thank the representatives of the government for moving towards multi-key personal income tax, but I think that at this point we should stop for a moment, because not only the working young people, but also the learning young people, who have been forgotten by this government, should be supported. Yes, I know that through the family support system, if they take on three children at the age of 18, they can get all kinds of credit and support, although I add that credit is usually appropriate to repay, but I still think it would be worth it if we were to support young people, to give some thought. The LMP recommends that the family allowance be extended, for example, to university students up to the age of 24. Be free of higher education, and I know that the answer to this is always on the fidesz side that higher education is free now. Only then will someone explain to me what the leprechaun should I take on or my child will take on student loans! Because if higher education is free, student loans are unnecessary. No one today thinks that Hungarian higher education is free, so it is very important to create free higher education. What is at least as important is that we are finally trying to achieve a significant wage increase in Hungarian higher education and primary education, so that our teachers can earn at least the average salary! It's amazing to see a beginner educator at what load and how much he earns. And you should think about that, ladies and gentlemen, because I think that's your job, that's your responsibility. And, well, yes, the rental program we've already mentioned, because let's be honest, we all know the concept of a mama hotel, but have we thought about why this is happening? This is because, ladies and gentlemen, today a 20-25-year-old does not have the self-esteem to take credit. You don't have the source in your pocket to buy an apartment with maximum parental support, but trust me, even this is a rare exception. Hungarian housing prices are skyrocketing, regardless of your economic policy, and the result is that young people are either taking on three or four children. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Or they won't get their own apartment in life. How helpful it would be to have a working tenement program, how helpful it could be, because if you had only heard it once, and it was not only submitted by LMP, from Jobbik to DK to the Socialist Party, everyone has already initiated the creation and creation of a rental program, because in the present Hungarian reality, young people cannot pull 10-15 million forints out of their pockets, because in the city centre I think it is not surprising for any of them to have a flat cost 40, 50, 60 million forints. And if it really is the way I think it would like, say, two or three children, then that apartment will start at HUF 60 million. 60 million forints, just think about it. How could young people coming out of college be able to make up their share of the 60-million-dollar mortgage? ! So I think that this is a very nice initiative, and I think its direction is also good, although it is very far from perfect, but its biggest flaw is that there is nothing added to it, and that it also shows that it has only one purpose, and that it is preparing for the elections in 22 which, I think, is unworthy even for you. So, to sum up, if you are already on your way to progressive personal income tax, please proceed with this in a well-thought-out way that is accessible to everyone. This is what the Hungarian society expects, the Hungarian economy forces this out anyway, I add, because the epidemic caused by Covid clearly confirms my claim that today it is impossible to live in the lower two or three decades, and let us be honest, it is not possible to find a job either. So I would like to conclude this request with the representative of the government. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-03-17-1-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik, please. [[12.20]]
u2021-03-17-1-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, One of the most important foundations of the strong middle class and the associated civil form is material independence and the remuneration of performance. Therefore, the Civic Reply welcomes any initiative that leaves more money than people, even because responsible, self-conscious citizens have greater confidence than in the state, which always creates addiction and, in exchange for this addiction, always patronizes us and always expects obedience. On the other hand, as a representative of the Civic Reply, it is also part of the credible opposition work that positive government intentions and government performance must be recognised and recognised, even if I agree with my fellow opposition Members, that it can be seen that it has political and power-technical goals, because this discount will be available from 1 January 2022 to young people under the age of 25, a few months before the parliamentary elections. Nevertheless, I will vote in favour of this proposal. All the more so, I will vote for it, because we see that the economic effects of the current coronal virus epidemic have been most affected by this social layer. So the very large majority of people working in tourism and catering, a significant proportion of whom are young, some of whom are under 25 years old, who have either lost their income in the current period, or are receiving only a fraction of the wages or orders they received earlier. Let us also note that the waiver of personal income tax for people under 25 will provide substantial help to many, but there will also be a large number of people to whom this will mean very little. I am thinking, for example, of the people who live in the coming regions, whose monthly income is at a level where this monthly amount, which is obtained by tax remission, will be extremely small. And those whose income is higher, mostly live in the western border, live in county seats or live in the capital, where in recent years the cost of housing, the cost of living, has increased tremendously. So these young people will receive substantial help, a measure of help that would lead them towards self-care, pre-saving and civil virtues that we also consider desirable, this level of release alone will not allow this, but we feel, understand and appreciate the positive intention, the step that leads to this. In fact, real, meaningful help for young people who have recently left the labour market would have meant that this age would have been pushed out for, say, 30 years, as it should be seen, for example, that many people who are involved in higher education will be on the labour market at the age of 24-25 when they are no longer able to use it. Obviously, there are a lot of people who work in addition, especially in the capital and major university cities, precisely because of increased housing costs and living costs, so if they have to work in addition to learning, they will be able to use it. But I would like to suggest to you, for example, that if the age is not extended to 30 years, and it is not brought forward more than 2022, after the economic situation has improved, after the economic recovery, I would consider, for example, the contribution allowance that our retired countrymen received last year, which will also be granted to young people under the age of 25. The Civil Reply wants a tax system and a wage level that recognises performance and encourages work. Let's just say community service isn't like that. Let's just say that the leadership of medical personnel deployed in the country by military leadership is not like this. The 13th month pension, which shifts public revenue from active workers to passive non-workers, is not like this. EU funds, which are tied to political loyalty, redistribution and often run without substantial tenders and competitive tendering, are not like this, are not intended for this purpose. The Civic Reply would like to build a Hungary where, after 25 years, the Hungarian state still appreciates its citizens, where those starting from a disadvantaged situation have a real chance and a chance to catch up with the middle class, to move on to self-care; where the state does not exploit the poorest, those living in extreme poverty, but does not hold it without conditions and performance; and where a strong and self-conscious middle class is a guarantee that the governments of the time must bring about a tax system, a situation in the labour market, a tax policy, a social policy that can reward their emergence, their individual performance, diligence, commitment and work. I, in my own name and in the name of the Civil Response, want and will work for such a country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2021-03-17-1-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2021-03-17-1-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would say to Congressman Nacsa that it is true, Mr Csárdi has already said, but I would consider it worthwhile to acknowledge that this is indeed a two-key tax system, so it is a pity to deny it. Indeed, they have introduced a different system than the one they have always argued for, which is not necessarily a problem. The reason why this seems like a campaign to everyone, I think, is the 25-year-old age, because as many people here have said, why not 29 if they are so attached to 2; or why not 30, which my fellow Member Bencsik spoke of, because the school's going to be pushed out, let's say, if someone is going to college or university, then it would be okay if he had at least 5-6 years to start his life in these circumstances. But no, it's 25 years, because it's the smallest budget cost. Many are 23-24 years old, who almost completes the university when they are no longer entitled to this benefit. And a lot of children today graduate from school by being a loser of the year, for a year later, their parents let them go to school. The other thing I wanted to say for the sake of debate is that between 20 and 24 years of working young people, there are a lot of unemployed people, so perhaps one of the highest numbers is among them. So in Hungarian, this confirms exactly what I'm talking about, that we're talking about a well-conceived communication campaign. And unfortunately, this initiative will not help the job or bring young people back to the labour market, as it would probably be much more accessible through contributions. And it certainly does not help tax incentives actually make pension savings or health fund payments pointless, just when young people might want to get used to it. Mr President, thank you very much for your patience.
u2021-03-17-1-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-65	Thank you, Mr. President. In a longer speech, I will explain my reaction to the lies and false news on the left, but I would like to reject László Varju's threat that if I talk to him, what the consequences will be; that they are constantly threatening the left, especially the Gyurcsány boys are threatening the right-wing journalists, people and representatives here. This, please, stop. I also reject the fact that Congressman Cook is mocking and joking on Andy Vajna. Obviously, about a respected man who can no longer be with us and can't defend himself and has achieved such successes for the Hungarian film, with him, I think it's not polite to joke. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that you are speaking in a detracting tone of 40-50-60-70,000 forints. [[12.30]] Congressman Cook, come with me to the Ormanship and say there, in a village in the main square, that 40-50-60 thousand forints doesn't matter, that's nothing. 'Cause here you said, come on, what's this money to start a life, what's this amount? You look down on young people, young Hungarians, and think that you are not a great help to them. When I started working alongside the university, it would have been a great help if I had received or had been given such discounts, and for my peers. Congressman Varju was very, very quiet about his blessed activity about the anti-younger, anti-family policy they were pursuing before 2010. You can talk about any number of key taxes here, there is a single-key tax in Hungary and stays while there is a Fidesz-KDNP government, but in your time the lowest key was 3 percent higher than the one-key tax now, the lowest one that the lowest, the smallest, had to pay in the central register. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you look down on the young Hungarians, and this is a very, very, very bad direction that you represent here. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-03-17-1-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-67	Mr President, Dear House, I am trying to keep my voice down so that my fellow Member Nacha can understand. If the amount of money taken from young people is equal to the disdain of young people, then I ask you the question of how low the 27 percent EU record VAT is for young people. Secretary of State, the tax content of diapers and child-rearing articles is the highest in Hungary throughout Europe. How contemptuous is that for young Hungarians? We can go further: because of the weak forints, the euro rate is now about a hundred forints lower than in the 2010 change of government, you consciously allow this, not to do it, but to allow it consciously, the special tax effect of this spill-over that appears on every purchase, whether it is a smartphone or a suit purchased from abroad, in the case of clothes, is a burden of a thousand billion per year for Hungarian families. My fellow Member, how disdainful is this for affected families and young Hungarians? So it is quite amazing that, as the latest Eurostat data series emerges, which shows that a family of two parents and two children live on the fourth minimum net income in Hungary throughout Europe, you are here from some onionous fever dream or from beyond the stargate trying to make such a parade of success out of this whole flow chart. In Hungary, wage levels are humiliatingly low, consumption is burdened with relentlessly high withdrawals. Of course, everyone appreciates the fact that a few thousand forints stay with a young person, but if this government withdraws the same amount of money from the other's pocket with its defective neoliberal economic policy, then allow us not to be happy about the looting through the other pocket, but at least to throw our improving proposals and diagnosis in your face. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-03-17-1-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give you the floor, Gergely Farkas... [[For signal:]] Sorry, excuse me, Congressman. Excuse me, Congresswoman, I wasn't paying attention. Mrs Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi's speech follows. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-17-1-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a lot of talk in this debate, and let me approach this issue from a tax point of view, because I think that it is not enough to look at it from family policy perspectives, but it is also important to look at the tax policy dimension. I am very sorry that Secretary Norbert Izer is not here right now, but we can do this without him. So, years ago, I started my professional career in an accountant's office as an accounting administrator, a tax expert. We have booked small businesses, from which, in fact, there are hundreds of thousands in Hungary today. Each small entrepreneur, when he started his career and we discussed the plans to do what he wanted to do, what activities he wanted to do, was always the first to do okay, but how I could save money. How do I save money? The most important thing is to save money from wages. As has already been said several times here in the debate, on average, about HUF 40,000 is what people under the age of 25 can achieve with this tax exemption, and that will increase their net income. Several of my fellow Members have already explained how employers will react to this. Well, the hard reality is that they're gonna examine you, and they're gonna say that my friend, you've been for eight hours for that kind of money, and you're gonna be six hours from now for the same amount of money, because the net wages aren't gonna change for him. That is also what this legislation is about, which is not good for anyone. When we get to the point that people's 8-hour full-time relationship will be reduced, although my nightmare is that, let's not only the 15-25-year-olds now, but I'm not going to have a pension either, because the pay-as-you-go system is going to collapse, but let's assume that they will, I don't know, 60 years from now, when the age limit is about 75 and they retire, well, it's not gonna be good for the young people to do a reduced part-time job. It should also be pointed out, which was also mentioned by Minister in her speech, that there are one million potential beneficiaries, i.e. tax exemptions, in our country today, but it should also be pointed out that there is very little of this number among 15-18-year-olds and that they, by the power of the law, are working during the summer holiday. Where do you do your work during summer vacation? Well, let's say, at Lake Balaton, because tourism has a big market, we need a lot of ice cream sellers, and we need more of those people, they can be a dishwasher or fast food chains. Well, what we're seeing right now is that during the pandemic, these jobs don't call young people, but they can't even provide jobs for older people. We've come to the point where we obviously know this is a campaign stunt. I agree with this, because it will be introduced from 1 January 2022 and will make Hungarians believe how many people you are helping. But when we look at the real numbers, the same way that the four-year-old family mothers' tax exemptions were involved, it's no use to any other reason than to tell their own constituents that we support these and these and these social groups. It's just that he's an average citizen who doesn't follow the day's events, and he's not so well-versed in politics, but he sees the government helping this and that and that and that. You have to look at the number of people involved! Two hundred and twenty thousand people have been spoken from the mouth of Minister, as I recall. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] One figure was 280,000. He said that 1 million potentials, 500,000 are likely to make use of them, but 280,000 were also said. That's still extremely low. I fully agree with my fellow Members that by increasing age they could really help young people. It's not a coincidence. President Peter James, as my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, has submitted such a proposal to ensure this tax exemption until the age of 29. This was not important to you, because then we would not be talking about such a number, but would be able to offer real help to young people. One word, like a hundred, employers are gonna play tricks, and that's what I was afraid of. By reducing their working time, subsequent benefits, or even the service time in family support systems, because we know very well that the lawn is calculated on the basis of the service time, so it will be very, very important if they are faced with a reduction in their working time from 40 hours a week, say, 6 hours a day. So, there are pitfalls in this bill. I am very confident that employers will not be looking for these loopholes now. I just don't have any illusions, I know them, I know they're fighting for their daily livelihoods, especially now, at the time of the pandemic, especially when they're doomed to forced closure, and the subsidies you're saying loudly here in Parliament, they're not getting it, this is today's Hungarian reality. You have just tabled a proposal, of course, as my fellow Member has said, the Jobbik Group will support this, but let us take a look at the other side, and do not ignore this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-17-1-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congressman Gergely Farkas, an independent Member, in a normal time frame. You have the floor. [[12.40]]
u2021-03-17-1-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also start by supporting this proposal, even because about a year ago, I myself was submitting a similar proposal. It is sad that, about a year ago, quite precisely in February 2020, you voted against a proposal with similar content at the committee meeting. Not only was it voted off, but it was not even said at this committee meeting that the proposal was good, but, let's say, it is not considered timely or the budget does not allow it. You voted against this proposal without saying a word. Now we are hearing from you, from the Minister to the MPs, that here in the milk and honey river Canaan will appear to young people, because this proposal is so important. I'll say it again: a year ago, you voted against this without saying a word, without giving any reason. I therefore believe that what you are doing in this debate is quite hypocritical. I should also add in the beginning that I am also sorry that Minister Novak is not present in the debate. There are few legislative proposals in this House that are more representative of the Minister, and I am sad that she does not listen to opposition comments and criticisms, because I would also have criticisms and constructive criticisms. Once again, the proposal is a small step forward, but it raises a number of questions. The first question is that if you are announcing this whole measure in the context of the relaunch of the economy, then why will it only take effect from 1 January 2022. Shouldn't the economy be restarted by 1 January 2022? Or what's the logic? The question is poetic: we know very well that after a few months there will be elections. If you were to be honest about your intention, your communication would be honest that you would expect, among other things, to restart the economy from this step, you would start this measure as soon as possible. I am helping you with this, because I have tabled an amendment to ensure that this measure does not come into force only from January 2022, but that it should enter into force much earlier, specifically as of 1 July 2021. Because if we really expect this to be a push to restart the economy, we cannot wait another three-quarters of a year, we need to restart the economy now. The budgetary impact is not so great. You say that this measure will take about 160 billion forints a year. I'd like to advance the introduction of this by six months, that's 80 billion forints. 80 billion forints, of course, is not small in itself, but consider that more than 2000 billion forints have already been spent from the Economic Protection Fund. I'd like to give you a few examples of what. It has obtained national sports centres, capital increases from various public companies, development of cycling facilities, and even funding of space activities from the Economic Protection Fund. If we take into account what money has come and more than 2000 billion money has been spent from the Economic Protection Fund, then I think it will not depend on 80 billion forints if this measure is really that important. I trust that you are open to my amendment and will support this initiative. I would also like to raise some questions about the proposal. Many people have raised the issue of age, and I think it is right for us to press this. In today's world, the age of 25 is a low age that alone will not help many young people. We know very well that many people go to higher education institutions, at the age of 18-19 they start the university, three to three and a half years of initial education, after a two-year master's degree, they get out of the university's benches at 23 to 24 years of age when they have completed everything at first, because we know very well that there are delays in many university students. So the fact may be that a significant proportion of the young people you want to support are either unable to take advantage of this opportunity at all, or can live for a whole six months, a year and a half, with this discount and a year and a half. Let's be honest, it won't help him to begin his life. Therefore, I would consider it important to raise the age limit myself. Indeed, give the young ones more help! By the way, speaking of ages, I always feel that you live in a slightly different world when you talk about what kind of support you provide for young people. You always list baby shower loans, CSOKs and similar things that are really important, but they are not really important for young people in their 20s. Today, at a time like today, you know that baby showers, childbearing, family engagement in significant cases do not take place at the age of 20, but rather at the age of 30-35, it is young people who are ready to take such steps, and young people in their 20s are left out of these preferences. That is why it is important that they are compensated for at least in this respect and that the maximum age for this specific proposal should not be 25 years, but up to 30 years. Let us look at some of the details that may not have been mentioned during the debate, and see how we should imagine this discount in practice. One of the problems, at least in my opinion, is that the age of 25 will mean such a drastic financial downturn for a young person due to the expiry or withdrawal of the benefit, which can put him in a difficult position. It doesn't matter that a young person, reaching the age of 25, suppose he won't get a raise, which, unfortunately, is quite realistic, or even if he gets a few percent wage increase. This will mean that one month at the age of 25 he brought home, say, 250 thousand forints, but in the next month only 200 or 210,000 forints. It is important to have such a relapse in a young person's life, who may even be paying back a loan, or who has taken out a loan for his earlier increased salary or for a higher salary due to the sja discount. It doesn't matter if you have to pay a loan out of 250,000 or 200,000 forints. It is not to be expected that employers will be so gracious, so charitable, that they will take this drastic decline into account, and by reaching the age of 25 they will raise their wages to young people. Waiting for it or hoping for it, I think it's naive. For all of this, I would consider it much more logical and less drastic for young people if this discount were to be carried out in a stepwise manner. I suggest, Mr Secretary of State, that you think about this, because, once again, if there is a drastic decline at the age of 25, it will also affect young people badly. On the other hand, if every year young people were to receive a falling sija discount, I think that it would be possible to prepare for that and be less drastic. Another point, I think, can be very realistic in practice: let's assume that now, with the introduction of a discount, it is not expected that employers will therefore reduce the gross wages of young people. I do not believe that this is realistic to compensate gross wages or to be taken back from them. At the same time, in the long term, it is entirely realistic that employers will make offers to young people on the basis of this discount. In a job start, they will take into account the fact that that young person will receive more than the same gross, so they will not offer him so much. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, what your answer is, what you can do. [[Turning to Robert Zsigó:]] I'd be happy if you didn't just press your phone, Mr. Secretary, while I'm asking you a question, because it's gonna be difficult to answer. You may be able to, but I think it's easier to record the questions you've asked, and then answer them, because Secretary of State...
u2021-03-17-1-72	Congressman, allow us to listen to you, and I hope you will respond to what you have said. I think that everyone is curious about the essence of your speech. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-17-1-73	I was also hoping to make a comment to Mr Secretary of State that I hope he will respond, and if he does not listen, it is difficult to react. [[Robert Szigó: Yes. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You may be taking notes on the phone!]] So, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you what your answer is. What will happen if employers make offers to young people taking this advantage into account? I would like to have an answer to that question, as would the previous question, how they feel about a step-by-step exit, which would be much better, would not be such a drastic step backwards for young people who reach 25 years. You have mentioned many times, Minister, that you also expect this step to reduce youth unemployment. Here, I add, in brackets, that, when you said the level of youth unemployment that has been reduced, you did not say that the EU average is still not reached, that we have 16.2 percent youth unemployment, the EU average is 17 percent. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true! That's not true.]] You can go to the KSH website, Congressman Nacsa, if you're arguing with me. You can argue with the KSH. This is part of the truth, therefore, that there is still room for improvement. [[12.50]] I also have to ask how this will encourage employers, motivate them to take on young people, because I do not fully see the connection between them. Why will it be important for an employer to keep more than one young person net of the same gross salary than, say, over 25? One aspect will motivate him to hire a more experienced, more qualified person, and add that he may find such a person more easily than 25 years of age. In many cases in 25 years, you could hire career beginners who do not have work experience yet, and the employer will not decide on the basis that you only hire young people under the age of 25 because then you will be entitled to 30 thousand HUF more net, and he will look at how much gross wages the employer will pay him. In this respect, I do not see that they are motivated to hire young people. Therefore, my proposal is that it is also very important to reduce the contributions to employers. The two together: giving young people benefits and allowing employers to benefit from contributions would mean that it is really possible to make young people more used and more motivated by employers. There was also a statement by one of the pro-government representatives that the last piece of the puzzle would be in place. Well, I didn't know what to do now when I heard this statement that you really meant it, because if you do, then there's a big problem, because it's positive for young people, but I'm telling you once again, it's not going to help you out of the difficult situation you're in right now. What are you facing today at the start of a life? By having incredibly high rent prices and housing prices that are priceless to them. A lot of people start their capitals with credit, because you provide academic and social scholarships that require student loans, so when they start working, they are in many cases forced to pay back millions of HUF. And we have not yet talked about low wages, how few savings these young people have, whether for housing purposes or for other purposes, and they will not receive any support. So I think that there would be a lot of work to be done here, a long time ago, if you think that this is the last piece of the puzzle, because if you think like this, then the young people will continue to vote on their feet, with a large number of people going abroad because of the situation at home, and it cannot be in anyone's interest. And I urge you not to stop halfway. A small step has been taken, a step to support, and I will vote in favour of this bill myself, but I urge you to take further steps to ensure that the 20s and 30s also feel that they are really important to this country and that they receive all the support they need to start their lives. Thank you for listening. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2021-03-17-1-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-03-17-1-75	Thank you very much. At the very beginning, let us make the mistake that the unemployment rate of young Hungarians is no better than the EU average. I would like to point out to Mr Gergely Farkas that Eurostat figures are better than the eurozone and the EU average for young people, and these are already the figures for 2020, so the figures for the crisis are also included in this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, The very big deal is that you despise young Hungarians [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You said that already!]] Deeply, they look down on him from the gut. They had a policy to get out of here for a reason.They created an environment, for example, from a tax point of view, to drive young Hungarians away from home before 2010. You will tell us here, for about 14 minutes out of 15 minutes, all the keynote speakers will talk about how bad this proposal is and will say that they will vote for it. If it's so bad, don't vote, honourable Members. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We're sorry you don't understand, it's not our problem!]] Because so far they have been talking about their actions always talking about raising taxes for young people, taking subsidies away from young people. And you also despise the young Hungarians when they say that this is a campaign proposal or a campaign proposal on the Parliament's table. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel laughs.]] You think that Hungarian young people can be bought. You have already played this many times with a pension promise of 19 thousand forints. You always look down on your constituents, you always think that the Hungarian people can be bought with small coins, with 19 thousand forints, with 5000 forints, with anything. [[László Varju: The one week pension.]] Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, It's not like that. Young Hungarians are intelligent, smart, ambitious [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] They have a strong vision, they're proud of their country, and they don't want to live in a country where the Prime Minister told them to leave. (Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP. ) Don't look down on the young Hungarians! And don't look down on Hungarian businesses and entrepreneurs, either, when they're competing against each other to say ugly things about Hungarian entrepreneurs, that they're going to cheat like this and they're going to play tricks! You also despise Hungarian entrepreneurs. I resent that, and on behalf of the entrepreneurs, we ask that all those who carry Hungarian businesses on their backs, employ Hungarian people, contribute to the total national product, and otherwise create value in this country, are classified by you as some sort of suffnituning company and fraudsters, we ask for it! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Then why are you multi-breeders?]] I would like to point out, fellow Members, that what you have said here on this proposal, most of it is not true in a noble simplicity. Congressman Varju said that he would take the money and run along with this bill, who could live with it and then move on and forget about the Orbán government, the Fidesz, that is what the Member said. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Again, it's the contempt of young people, but there's one guy playing the game, and take the money and run, that criminal Csaba Czeglédy, your great friend Ferenc Gyurcsány's lawyer. So if you're gonna give someone that advice, you're gonna have to look around his house. Mr. Congressman, even in the draft law on the sija reduction, you managed to bring in the anti-vaccination logic that we heard from DK every day, as he began his speech with this, and even here he managed to bring in an anti-vaccination mood, to prove people [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] which keeps coming from you day to day. You know, honourable Member, in one word you did not respond to the decisions that you voted for, you voted in favour, and often you were even a rapporteur from the Ministry of Economic and Development, how Hungarian families and young Hungarians were afflicted before 2010. You are playing to make Ferenc Gyurcsány's sneakers forget what he did to Hungarian young people and what he did to Hungarian families. You think that the young Hungarians will not remember that Ferenc Gyurcsány led a horse-riding attack on his own people, and that he had them shot. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] You think they're playing to make sure that young Hungarians don't know how this Prime Minister spoke about their country. You think you're trying to get Ferenc Gyurcsány back into power, so you're all sitting across from us because you're playing games to make people forget what terrible things you've done to them. [[László Varju intervenes.]] What they said about multi-key taxes, of course, is not true, because there are tax incentives, because, for example, family tax incentives are also a tax reduction, which, by the way, I would respectfully point out, for example, when a child reaches the end of, say, public education and goes to college, goes to college or starts working. And you also despise the young Hungarians when they talk about not being able to decide whether they want to learn a profession, want to go to university, want to work. Congressman Varju also looks down on young Hungarians when he says that Hungarians cannot, for example, take up student work alongside a university. I've been doing student work in college, too. Many people do, there are many young Hungarians, who take up work in addition to their university and college studies. It's just that you're-or you're setting it up, and we're saying there's a lot of these situations, there's a lot of them, and we're helping them by letting go of the sja. All of you here have been scolding this bill for 15 minutes, constantly aggravating the bill, and of course the essence and why of all of this comes from the fact that you think that young Hungarians should look down on the fact that young Hungarians cannot make an independent decision, that Hungarians do not have a definite vision of their lives, of the world, of their future. [[Z. Kárpát, Daniel: But there is, that is why many have gone away from here!]] Moreover, young Hungarians are not happy if they do not have to pay in 25 years. You guys here said that we've solved everything. We didn't solve everything. It's an important step. We never said we'd come to the end of the road. [[13.00]] We never said we were done expanding family support, we never said... Otherwise, we have extended it on several occasions, only you have not voted for it, so you do not remember it, on several occasions, such as the free KRESZ exam, such as the free language exam, a number of steps have taken in recent years that have also targeted this age group. So when you guys in gym shoes think [[László Varju: What does that mean?]] that you can forget the crimes that you have committed here, many of you who are sitting in this room, with your votes against the young Hungarians and the Hungarian families, you are very, very wrong, because the Hungarian families and the young Hungarians clearly remember that you started the crisis management by abolishing the family tax reduction; that you have raised personal income tax; that you have led out the home creation programs; that you have left hundreds of thousands of people on the side of the road and have made you unemployed; that you have ruined the health system; that you have closed schools in countless places because you are deeply silent about this, but Hungarian families and young Hungarians know that this is the only thing you can expect. And interestingly, it's quiet around Jobbik's house because they know exactly [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Wait for it!]] To help them get back in power, to those who will do this, to shut down schools, to put medical workers on the streets. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] , they will raise personal income tax, they will eliminate family support and bring back the, let's be small, and you can leave from here with the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, And you are working every minute to make this happen in Hungary. I think it's the lye. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I'm asking you to speak freely. If you attack this bill like this for 15 minutes, say you don't support it. Then tell them to be brave enough to say to the young people that they do not support young people, because they want to pursue the same policy that they stopped in 2010 thanks to the Hungarian electorate, and they want to pursue the same anti-young and anti-family policy, and then they say with their votes in the eyes of Hungarian young people that all you can get from you is a tax increase, a austerity and a message that you can only get out of here. I want you to be as brave as you are when you've been scolding the bill for hours. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to talk to you about something else, but you wrote such a big arch. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Member Nacsa [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] which I really think was all there was to it, and if you're on some level aware of right-wing government propaganda, [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is not on the right!]] Then even a compliment and a complete Origo cover was published in this speech. I would like to point out that you have left out the words "supplier" and "soros" but the rest, I think, has all kinds of keywords in this. He told us a hundred times to look down on the young. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] That's not true! [[Robert Szigó: Yes!]] You say that they will help young people, especially when you address your sentences to me, that 40-50-60 thousand forints doesn't count in the Ormanship. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what you said!]] No, I didn't say that, so you didn't listen properly, and I'll tell you honestly, who says that 40-50-60 thousand forints doesn't count in the Ormans, that's not smart. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But it matters!]] If in the Ormania or anywhere, in Baranya, in the countryside, you can show me some of those twenty-something young people [[Anita Potochanya Kőrösi: Who makes 400,000!]] If you're gonna give him 60 thousand forints tax relief, he's gonna make 400,000 forints in the little village of Ormania, then be nice, and then let's go and show it to me, okay? We are not disdaining them, but we said it on your proposal, otherwise I would like to quote myself once again, because he was probably not paying attention, I said that we would support proposals that improve the income situation of young people. That's what I said. I also said that, in the context of a very smearful introduction, it should not be forgotten that it is a much more complex problem for young people today, today's twenty-somethings, to have a perspective in Hungary, because unemployment among young people has fallen in the last ten years, so that we should thank the workers in London, Berlin and Vienna. I know you guys said that they left out of an adventure, but believe me, they didn't. I know your government communication was about them leaving out of an adventure and coming home, but it's not like that, it's just not like that. You were the ones who changed the vocational training system in a short period of two to two and a half years, entrusted it to the Chamber of Industry, so that there you could be a teacher and student on your feet, who was able to adjust to it, and after that you could easily find yourself in Hungary. They have now managed to get their hands on higher education, and they should also have had a chance for young people, we can see that they will now function very well in the form of foundations. But believe me, these are not the biggest problems for young Hungarians. Do you know what the biggest problem of the Hungarian youth is, because of which, by the way, we are speaking, is that not only the tax credit or tax relief will help? You know, paying the rent, getting a rent, paying the two months' deposit, that's a problem for him. We do not see the kind of help where there would be a rental-building program, so that they do not start through humiliating situations, not on loans, not on loans. Here, let me respond to my fellow Member, Mr Wolf, who said that they started their lives with credit. Well, honestly, he's putting his hands together by the 20-year-old who gets credit and doesn't get pulled out of the bank. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Don't tell me to come on. You have to go to a bank in the country and see how everyday life goes there. So here's the thing: the first apartment is usually a sublet, where they deposit the deposit on a loan from their parents or friends. [[Z. Dániel Kárpát to the pro-government representatives: That's right! The problem is, you can't imagine this anymore.]] Don't forget that. How these young people feel vulnerable at the first job because you have loosened the rules of the Labour Code to the extreme, because you have relaxed the rules on the protection of workers to the extreme, the situation they are in, the humiliating situations they may be in, you do not know, you do not see. That is why these young people are feeling unwell, and that is why we do not think that this will help us in general, in a comprehensive way, even if you give up the entire Origo cover here, my fellow Member Nacsa, if you are trying to help their income relations now. One thing you always forget: they will try to help them from 1 January next year, so that it does not smell like campaign, so 2022, the election year will take effect from 1 January. And, you know, because of these things, the way in which the vocational education system has been transformed, the higher education system now, the way in which they cannot get housing or find housing in Hungary, as, unlike foreign examples, they are unfortunately not able to care for their elderly parents, but it is still their elderly parents who provide for their 20-year-old children in Hungary, because of these examples they are going abroad to study and to work abroad. That's the biggest problem. That's what we should think about. Once again, I stress: do not confuse us, my fellow Member Nacsa, because one of them is asking us to support this proposal, and then you say not to support it; we will decide, we will support this proposal because it will increase the income of young people. At the same time, we have indicated that this is a more complex problem. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-17-1-78	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group.
u2021-03-17-1-79	Thank you very much. Although the President saw that my original plan was not to make a longer comment on this, but with this situation, which, with the silence of the Member and the Secretary of State, with which he would quietly watch the debate here, he would end up telling us the truth... but whatever. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Brave Warrior!]] This Fidesz practice does not take part in the debate and then announces the result. I have only bad news, that is not the result, but that is only your position, because in itself it is very annoying what the Member has just referred to. [[13.10]] Do you know what condescension is, Your Honour? When you assume that at the age of 23-24, a beginner youth will receive this basically compared to an average salary of HUF 397 000, that will be her return, and that is what the Minister is promoting here. Compared to this, the reality is that it goes to an amount of approximately HUF 200,000 or the guaranteed minimum wage, which will give it HUF 31,500 a month's discount. This means that in two years it will reach HUF 758 000, against which what you are doing here, your dear fellow Member, is when, with your support, your vote will destroy the university system, and then your fellow Member of Bajkai will be put in the board of directors, and they will give him an honor fee of HUF 1.5 million a month. Now, that's the look of young people, you know? ! That is why you have to take responsibility, and that is why you have to leave this Parliament, because you have no place, because otherwise you are playing in such an unfair way! This disdain for young people, honourable Member, and what the figures clearly show is that the support for young people in higher education, who came from a disadvantage, fell from 6 percent to 1 percent. You know, honourable Member, this is what is the result of your activities, and it creates such a situation for those who, by the way, cannot actually get in on their own or with family support. And what do you do? They're gonna make a suggestion saying don't study, kids, we're gonna give you support as soon as possible, and then they're not gonna come to Bajkai competitions, and they're gonna be able to work as lawyers, as college graduates. You will not be competing to live as an overpaid political player in our academic board. It's an insult. Honourable Congressman, What you just mentioned, how the young people were humiliated ten or a few years ago, those were the government... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You!]] That's it! Just point it at me. Honourable Congressman, In 2019 they had an amount of 876 billion HUF housing support, and this was paid. Do you know how much he was 12 years ago? They couldn't even reach 887 billion forints. You know? ! So that's when you're going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and But in any case, the situation is assessed calmly, we support young people, and you, as you said, look down on them, and I even say that you are deceiving them. That's the real downside, Mr. Congressman. If I were to respond not only to you, but also to express in the comment itself a little bit what the message of introducing an age-bound sjai exemption is, as I mentioned earlier, what incentive it gives young people and what it encourages them to do, then they could also consider that the 150 billion forints that are missing from the budget in this respect, but, if they did, how much they could have helped to catch up, train and train young people, so that their existence at market jobs would otherwise be much safer in Hungary, and not the only solution they have to leave this country. I think that this is the same game as the promise to introduce the 53rd week pension, with which they campaigned for pensioners, now they have gone to the other side and there the working young people of 25 years are looking for their favours in this way. But it's okay. It's okay. I'm gonna say what they give you, you have to accept it, and it's worth it from that point of view. But if you are looking at the whole tax system, yes, Congressman, you are saying that the system is not two-key, that the system is not multi-key. Yes, you can. You're the one who's leading him in. The regulation provides for tax relief up to the level of average gross earnings in July of the previous year, the promise and implementation are not synchronised, and you are misinterpreting this. In addition, given that there may be income above average income at this age, they will certainly pay different taxes there. Therefore, within the framework of the government's seemingly single-key system, it does, it was created, calmly heard from my fellow Members about the conditions of progressive taxation. So from this point of view, I think that it is not only politically doubtful in itself, but that the proposal you came here with is, in any case, technically weak. Overall, this means to me that, rather than facilitating participation in education and the lifelong learning process, this means that the system rewards the early exit from schooling, you will vote on it, and you will do so. But otherwise, we'll correct that, don't worry. Even you couldn't decide whether we should support or not, but sooner or later you'll have a proposal. Because, in the light of developments over the past decade, it is not surprising that you in this social group are expanding the social gap with this decision which, by the way, I would say that the next government will work down, because we cannot allow young people, as a result of your efforts, to truly be the victims of this system, we are with them and we will help you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-03-17-1-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we will now continue speaking in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2021-03-17-1-81	Mr President, Dear House, I assure the President that I do not intend to complete the 15-minute time frame, I have given up my hopes that the Secretary of State will act a little more masculine and participate in the debate, because the fact that he will say a closing word does not really add much to this genre, we hope that he will take the less of it. I also gave up my hope to get an answer from the government as to why 27 percent of EU record VAT is here, which, let's say, is the most taxing of child rearing articles throughout Europe. I don't think the Secretary of State would dare or refuse to answer that, but perhaps he will have the courage to do so at the closing. Nor did the creators of the production reports mention weak forints, including my fellow Member Nacsa. How do you explain that I do not want to quote Viktor Orbán here that only weak people want weak forints? I fully agree with the Prime Minister on this. At the same time, I see that the exchange rate of the forint has deteriorated by more than a hundred forints compared to the euro. This is an outrageous special tax, the background of which is that Hungary may not have had a more multinational government than it is now. In addition, a EBRD pact was concluded, where they fell to their knees in front of banks. The fact is that national sovereignty has been sold by you as a market kofa against these two companies and organizational systems at a level that is textbook, purely neoliberal. The banks were promised not to charge them with a single HUF, to burden the families instead of them, and the multi-enterprises were reduced to coal. Congressman Nacha! Last year you were responsible for this 2 billion-dollar grant agreement with Audi's daughter in Hungary. My fellow Member! You have made up for the loss of the daughter of this multi-company with the taxpayer's money. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 30,000 people!]] In the case of Hungarian micro- and small entrepreneurs, stand up and list three companies where they were able to produce this volume! He won't be able to do that. That's how young Democrats became old Bolsheviks [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] For whom all other interests are more beautiful than the Hungarian small entrepreneur, then Mr Nacsa stands up and says that he asks for anything on behalf of the entrepreneurs. It's pretty amazing. These walls have seen a lot. But, my fellow Member, if you are such a streetfighter, you will present a proposal and I will support it. Give the same amount of support to Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as to multinationals as to your strategic partners! [[13.20]] Your allies are the German car companies, which made Hungarian GDP data and everything else dependent on their seasonal offers. In Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, what do you offer? Support, non-refundable? No. A preferential loan, Mr. Secretary of State, if the broker, the commercial bank, says that my brother, you are worthy of that loan, perhaps in exchange for a mortgage. You can smile here, sit back, write the Messenger message, sometimes take notes, but the fact remains that you are serving multi-business companies, and you can offer loans to small and medium-sized Hungarian companies carrying the country on their backs, only under certain conditions and with a small-letter section. This is your economic policy. I am not saying that you should immediately sprinkle ashes on your heads, although I may not want to judge you, as a true believer, but I certainly do not judge you, but what you are doing is very, very far from what gives you the basis for these cocky speeches, and the fact is, indeed, the contempt of entrepreneurs is that they do not receive any support. Family support has come up again. My fellow Member Nacsa's chemical-clean Bolshevik rhetoric has been re-heard, and we already know that any opposition party may say anything, even the governments of the period before 2010. That's real stinky, pesto, Bolshevik tempo. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] That's it! That's what you do. It is very, very far from what we can call a meaningful culture of debate, and anything else that Parliamentarianism would otherwise require. You young democrats have become old Bolsheviks, and not only because we look at the party's top management, we find most KIS Secretarys with you, and not with other opposition parties, but also because of their style. Style is man. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] And let me be clear, in any case, Jobbik supported family support-weighting based on child numbers even when you rejected this world. Between 2010-14, you did not understand what demography was, you did not face the fact that this is Hungary's biggest sustainability problem, which can undermine health, education, pension systems and all kinds of social systems on which we have based our lives for decades. You have not faced this problem. Our program was consistent at the time and now, no sane opposition party wants to take the child-related subsidies, to dooze them, to destroy them, and there is no such thing in the Hungarian sky. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can. Yes, you can.]] And the thing is, you can visit anything here, my fellow Member, that's enough for one thing that you do, this Bolshevik tempo. This two-million-dollar camp may be enough for a while, it may even be enough for a close election result, but certainly not to save the nation, and now, in a crisis situation, Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian families should be supported, and for some reason you are not doing this. One more question, family allowance. This is my fellow Member and Secretary of State Nacsa avoiding incense smoke as a devil, they do not dare to speak on this issue, because they see that since 2010, some 40 percent of the value of family allowances has been inhibited by freezing, lifting or not talking about it. In this way, it is thought that this benefit from the right of the subject will burn away, evaporate, and one day people will forget. Otherwise, opposition parties are united in their support for a strong increase in the value of family allowances, and I think it needs to be doubled. Jobbik, my political community, on the other hand, would put a condition in this system, and we would ensure this through a family card scheme. Mr Nacsa, if you recall, this family card is the same idea and design that has been in our program since 2010. In 2011, you guys Nazid us, and in 2021, you guys are gonna downplay us for the same program point, and that's gonna tell us everything. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] He tells us all about your Bolshevik logic and the ragged system you've built. Because what's the point of the system, the family card system? A child protection approach is to double the amount of the family allowance, but this can only be spent on a limited product range, basic food, child-rearing products, and goods that support the child's cultural and intellectual development, not on recreational articles or gambling. This is a very well-defined, honest, clear proposal from a child protection approach. If you have some national feelings or a little commitment to this country, you will respond to this proposal, but most importantly, why this very, very important family support tool has been frozen. I can, by the way, share the approaches to a work-based society. Neither do we want crowds to sit at home and receive social transfers, but we want them to work if they can. The fact is that, with a low wage level as humiliating as it is in Hungary, it is very difficult to manage families, and you will not face it. My fellow Member, Nacsa, has just referred to Eurostat ten minutes ago, so let's make some friends with Eurostat and the data published a day or two ago. The average net wages of singles and childless people, my fellow Member, Nacsa, decreased 1 percent in Hungary compared to 2019, in euros, and this is the fourth lowest in Europe. I don't hear any parliamentary yelling right now. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] And it is also true that in the statistics it is said that for an average family, two parents, two children's average wages were reduced by one and a half percent compared to 2019 in Hungary. If only it were right that the two children and two parents would be average and typical in Hungary! Unfortunately, the population figures haven't been that good in a long time. I would very much like to return to the area of fertility index 2 and we are terribly far from that. But it can be seen that amazing and conscious forint-weakness mows families, mows the purchasing power of their income, and this brings price increases for every product imported or purchased from abroad, and makes the family's expenditures extremely high. If the effect of the weak forint, the effect of the 27 percent VAT, the effect of the abolished state savings and state aid, these negative effects are combined, unfortunately, they take out much more from the pockets of the families than they are trying to leave in another pocket of a young person with today's proposal, which, I repeat, I think we should support, just look at the whole picture, the so-called big picture, and it does not issue an exemplary certificate for you, and it is not even possible to vote sufficient in certain chapters. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-17-1-82	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-03-17-1-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Referring to Mr Z. Kárpát's speech, we have dealt with a lot of things here in the last two and a half hours to quote the one-time man, but we have not patched a hole bucket, and if anyone has heard the contributions of opposition representatives, they might think that we are debating something here in Parliament that takes something from someone and we want to do something wrong with someone. Therefore, I think it is worth making clear that this is not the case. Of course, I understand the opposition representatives' comments, they started out of it, and I'll come back to that, but a little later, what they did before 2010, and since everyone starts from themselves, these comments have been so excellent. However, let us be clear to those who follow the debate that we are discussing here on a proposal aimed at introducing a gender exemption for young people under the age of 25, which means that they do not have to pay 15 percent of the personal income tax to the extent of average income in the national economy. This measure can help around 500,000 young people, as far as we know now, and at best it can generate half a million forints of income per year. This is the proposal that has been discussed here, which I have not counted on, how many times we have heard that it will be supported, and this is the proposal that has been constantly being insulted here in the last two and a half hours or so. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at your comments. Mr Z. Kárpat, here, in his last comment, said that because we always think about confronting those who had sins before 2010. I'm not doing that right now, Congressman, and I'm not saying you're not listening because you're talking. [[Z. Kárpát is talking to Anita Kőrösi, Mrs. Potocsáné Potocsány.]] And you can't listen, because I'm sure you can focus on two places, and I would confront you with your actions or votes in action, not verbally, since 2010. [[13.30]] You weren't telling the truth. You have told Congresswoman Mónika Dunai that you literally support the absence of mothers with at least four children. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yes. Nacsa Lárinc: Oops!]] No, Congressman, you didn't vote for this... [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right! Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] He was here in Parliament, look at the voting list: you did not support this, by the way, nor did he support us to introduce family taxation. He also did not support in the Parliament that the child should go back to three years; and he did not support the 40 programme, either, to quote only a few of what you had not voted for or supported since 2010, which you did not vote for before 2010. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is that why you waited so long?]] So, Congressman, I would like to ask you that if you lecture us, first try to understand what principles you have, not just verbally, but in action. [[Mrs. Potocska named Anita Kőrösi.]] Congressman Cook has asked us to create a chance, raise the minimum wage, raise the education system, and I could tell you more. Unfortunately, he's not here either, so I'm sure he'll watch the TV that I'd like to answer. On the creation of a chance, only what Congressman Nacsa has repeatedly said here, you, honourable Member, sent young people from Hungary before 2010. Literally, your Prime Minister, who is also directing you now, said that anyone who does not like it can leave here, and otherwise I will only keep it quietly, that we should be aware that the number of people leaving Hungary has been falling for four years. That's also the difference between us, by the way. All I can say about raising the minimum wage is that we do not need to be lectured on this matter, we have more than doubled the minimum wage over the past few years. And to their criticism of the education system, they closed a school in 381 settlements before 2010; they took a month's wages from teachers and wanted to introduce the tuition fee. So the lecture you've given here on creating a chance, raising the minimum wage, the education system doesn't have much credit. László Varju, who always postulates himself as a professional, could say that the bill before us is a non-governmental proposal. Well, then what if it's not a government proposal? But anyway, because Congressman Varju said in one of his sentences, he could say that this is a cheap campaign promise, and in the second half of his sentence he said that it costs 160 billion forints. You'll decide the same way you decide whether or not to vote for it. He also addressed unemployment, youth unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, In ten years, the number of young unemployed has decreased by less than half and employment figures for young people aged 15-24 have increased by a quarter. The employment rate increased from 18.3 per cent to 27.6, while the unemployment rate fell from 21.8 to 11.2 per cent. And, yes, I do not know why they are calling it into question, according to Eurostat data for January 2021, the unemployment rate for young people aged 15-24 in Hungary is 15.3 per cent more favourable than the EU average, which is 16.9 per cent, by the way. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] [[In the notary seat Dr. Winner Vinnai will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] I do not say, it has been said several times that we have nothing to do, we have a lot of work to do, but do not doubt that we have achieved results in this area over the past period. Here, most of you have a debate, perhaps the biggest expert of which was Congressman Antal Csárdi, who is also not here in this Chamber, who is not paying taxes, and who has a zero-percent tax, and some pay 15% sja, and he knew that there was a multi-key tax. The tax experts will discuss how this is done as it is. The point is that before 2010, you taxed the Hungarian people, families, young people and children, everyone they could, by the way. Attila Mesterházy must have been wrong when he said, quote, that there are many unemployed among working youths. Probably not a lot of working young people are unemployed. And he also said that it was a mistake, and I would like to say it now, just as it was said in the Minister's pre-disputed exposé, and that Congressman Gergely Farkas said that he feared the young people that by the time they graduated from the university and got out of the university walls, they would be almost 25 years old and they would not be able to avail themselves of this discount. But they will be able to avail themselves of this discount, so it also applies to those who, for example, work in favour of learning during their university years, so they can use it not only after they have completed their university studies. Mrs Potocsány, I would just like to help you in the numbers, because you probably didn't remember well what you said by the end of the long and meaningful debate, so I will tell you. In 2020, 280 thousand young people worked regularly. There are almost 500,000 young people today who work in some form, for a longer or shorter period, and the 15-25 - year - olds are slightly over a million people. The point is that about 500,000 young people can use it now, but if we do it right, especially if there's more help than the counter-counsel and more people are able to work, more people of this age group will be able to benefit from this discount. I can recommend to Congressman Gergely Farkas that if you have any ideas or suggestions, put them down. [[Gergely Farkas intervenes.]] Parliament has an excellent system of discussing, considering and ultimately deciding whether this is suitable for support or not. By the way, he was the one who made this perfect, quoted it from the Minister when she was not present when she spoke, and then in the second half of her sentence she spoke. I told you from the beginning, Mr President, that you were not here at the time, Madam Minister, at a government meeting, where decisions on the epidemic will be taken. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He doesn't usually go through any debates! None!]] I don't want to waste much time, Mr. President. The situation of young people has been mentioned. It has to be said that, contrary to what happened in Hungary before 2010, the government is constantly expanding the scope of support to help young people learn, start a family, create a home, learn a language and find their place. I could give you a lot of examples here. It has also been said that we will reimburse young people for a successful language exam. It has also been said that we can also reimburse the cost of the KRESZ exam, and we have taken a lot of measures in recent years that specifically help young people. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is here before the House at a time when we are experiencing the most difficult period of crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic; when most people are sick; when most people need to be helped in terms of health; and when most people need to be helped to keep their job, whether they are workers or employers. And in this period, compared to the fact that, before 2010, the crisis was dealt with by taking a month's wages from civil servants, they took away the 13th month's pension from the elderly, they reduced a year's duration, they took away the support for home creation, and basically eliminated the support for families, and we started the biggest home-building program ever in the crisis caused by the corona virus, and now we have on the table the proposal for a personal income tax exemption for young people under 25 years of age. With this, we have three goals: we want to encourage their entry into the world of work; we want to help young people to start their own lives as responsible as possible; and finally, we hope that this step will provide security for young people on the road to home creation, family formation and childbearing. We are not only talking about this one measure, but we are talking about a series of measures that, once again, help learn, help work, help create homes, have children and raise children. This system is what Fidesz and KDNP have built over the past ten years, and this system is what we always do, every time we have the opportunity, we improve and expand, because we want Hungarian families to receive all the help they can get in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws relating to urban planning until closure. Government referral T/15397. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[13.40]]
u2021-03-17-1-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The bill before us has been prepared with the need to simplify the construction legislation by reviewing the legislative framework for the performance of the building authority and for all construction activities. This, in addition to helping to reduce administrative burdens for municipalities, will also help rationalise the process of designing and changing plans, thus also leading to speeding up construction. Dear Parliament, I need to start by presenting the bill by saying that, contrary to the news published in the media, the bill does not aim to reduce the powers of the local government as much as it does not restrict the freedom of local governments to establish regulations. Municipal development and settlement planning are still considered as local public affairs, in which the freedom of decision of local self-government representative bodies should continue to prevail. We were just looking out for the interests of the local authorities in drawing up proposals to make the legislative framework more flexible. The draft would thus allow small municipalities, among other things, to draw up a simpler local construction code, eliminate unnecessary repetitions in documents adopted by the municipality by no longer having to take a separate municipal decision and local regulation on the same issue, as well as a modification of local regulations, which can be implemented more quickly and easily thanks to the electronic conciliation process. The change in legislation is therefore intended overall to meet today's expectations, taking more effectively into account the regulatory needs of individual municipalities. Dear Parliament, According to the current regulations, municipalities prepare three development and settlement documents in the form of normative decisions. Laughing first, the concept of urban development, then the municipal development strategy and the municipal structure plan, in addition to which a local decree is adopted as a local construction code. According to the bill, only one municipal development plan and a settlement planning plan should be drawn up by the municipalities, as the essential elements of the settlement development concept and the integrated urban development strategy are included in the municipal development plan and the regulatory elements of the settlement structure plan are included in the local construction code. The essential content remains, but unjustified parallels are removed, making regulation more transparent for the law-abiding parties and making it easier to revise the plans later. In the development plan, the municipality sets out its objectives to be achieved in the short, medium and long term, setting out the expected results here and, in view of this, in its municipal decree, the settlement plan sets out the general building requirements and the installation rules for building sites. So, to simplify it, it only means that only two will be completed instead of the previous four documents. In the case of the capital city, which operates with a two-tier municipal system, the metropolitan districts will adopt a development plan and district building regulations, and the Metropolitan Assembly will adopt a development plan and a capital settlement regulation. As in the case of other 3,200 settlements, this type of document is removed from the regulation. At the same time, the issues covered so far in this plan are transferred to the metropolitan settlement code, i.e. while these provisions were previously contained in a municipal decision, they are then placed in a municipal decree. None of this is de judicious, and even the power of regulation by means of the bill is only increasing by raising the provisions to the level of legislation. Dear Parliament, Another crucial novelty of the draft, which I have pointed out earlier, is that it makes a substantial distinction between settlements on the basis of population numbers and allows municipalities and small towns to draw up a significantly simpler development plan and local construction regulations. The documents therefore need to address only the most necessary issues in line with local circumstances, unnecessarily repeat national regulations, or not refer to them if they do not have any significance in the locality. Smaller settlements can, of course, also decide on the way in which the bill requires larger settlements, but this is optional. The proposal amends the obligation to review plans periodically to the extent that, if a smaller municipality considers that there is no need to change them because, for example, no new installation area needs to be designated, no changes to the installation rules need to be made, there is no justification for changing the boundaries of the construction zones, it may, by simple decision, maintain the previous regulation. The bill not only reduces the number of plans and simplifies their content, but the duration of their preparation and amendment will also decrease. The paper-based processes are basically disappearing, and the current practice of the mayor having to contact dozens of government administrations by post, as well as economic operators appearing as partners, is also removed. Dear Parliament, Instead, the sector required to prepare the plans will be provided for example nature conservation, water management, forestry and transport data, as well as the coordination of the completed plans under the direction of the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, through the Electronic Area Planning Support System, the E-Training. This digital interface is operated by the Lechner Knowledge Centre, and the completed plans will also be digitally recorded by the Centre, so that neighbouring settlements can take them into account when designing their own plans. However, it is necessary to amend other sectoral legislation in order to harmonise regulation due to the new concepts and types of plans to be introduced in the design process. Dear Parliament, Overall, the bill described above accelerates the process of adopting local rules, eliminates the current duplication of regulations and helps in particular smaller settlements by creating a simple development and settlement plan, which should be modified less frequently. On this basis, I ask all the factions of the Parliament to support the submitted bill, thus also helping the Hungarian settlements to carry out their urban planning tasks more efficiently and in a more lively way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/15397 ahead. The main aim of the bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to urban planning is, as we have heard in the expoze, to establish transparent and modern rules for land development and settlement planning based on digitalisation, while preserving the current powers of local authorities. The change also improves legal certainty as investors, construction families, designers and regulatory professionals can obtain up-to-date, readily accessible, transparent digital building parameters for the properties concerned. [[13.50]] This is supported by the Electronic Area Planning Support System, which allows for one-stop shops, i.e. the E-Training System, so that a family house or even an industrial building's planning and licensing period can be significantly shortened and simplified. In my speech as Chief Speaker, I would like to briefly highlight some of the most important elements of the proposal that illustrate the purpose and the need to adopt the motion. Dear House, According to the bill, the number of development and settlement documents to be prepared by municipalities will be streamlined, and a development and one type of settlement plan will be drawn up per municipality. Accordingly, the urban development concept and the integrated urban development strategy are replaced by the urban development plan and the urban planning instruments are replaced by the settlement planning plan. The construction plan will be implemented, but local construction regulations will remain and will be strengthened. In the case of rural settlements, the local construction code is a settlement planning plan, and in the capital city the settlement rules, the district building regulations and the special local construction regulations adopted by the Metropolitan Assembly, such as the Danube bank and the City Park, report the settlement plan together. It is important to point out that the regulatory elements contained in the settlement structure plan do not cease to exist, but are transferred to the local construction regulations. This strengthens their role, as the structural plan was adopted by a decision on its own and cannot therefore be regarded as a law, but the local construction code is a municipal regulation, which can establish the rights and obligations of those concerned. Together, the urban development plan and the settlement planning plan can be called a settlement plan, as they are designed and modified with respect to each other and in harmony with each other. By setting out the minimum content requirements for settlement plans, it is possible to prepare simplified plans for professional reasons, in particular for municipalities and small towns. This is precisely one of the key novelties of the legislative amendment, namely that smaller settlements can also draw up a much simpler plan, which represents a significant reduction in the administrative burden for them. By providing an appropriate transitional period, the coordination of development and settlement plans, the provision of statutory data and the publication of agreed plans will become uniform and digital. Dear Parliament, Contrary to the previously published false news, settlements may continue to define, among other things, the nature of the exploitation of each area, the percentage of the land installed, the height of the area's installation, the size of the plot, the minimum level of green surface. In addition, the capital can continue to create a Budapest settlement policy, the content of which does not decrease, the two-level regulation typical of Budapest remains, as besides the districts, the capital can also prepare its own specific regulatory plan. The municipalities are still benefiting, since they need to draw up fewer plans and fewer official documentation, which can be monitored continuously in an electronic environment. In the new regulation, differences between municipalities can be better taken into account in the planning process and small settlements will be able to draw up a significantly simpler plan, taking better account of their local circumstances than the current requirements. The builder, in consultation with the municipality, may modify the settlement plan more quickly if necessary, so that the planned investment can be carried out in a shorter time than before. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In light of what has been said, it can be concluded that the bill serves a forward-looking purpose, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Instead of the previous four documents, there will only be two documents, which was your main message. Well, that's not what I'm reading out of this legislation, and that's not what municipal mayors are reading out of this legislation. What are they reading? That your main goal is to detract from the powers of a local government again. It's wrapped in a robe like this, and they're saying that TFK and ITS have been, and now it's not called that. If the aim is not to take this power away from the municipalities, to determine what should be in their respective settlements, what improvements should be made, then why the hell should this be renamed? So that instead of the four documents, only two documents will have to be submitted to the body of representatives? I remember when I was deputy mayor, that's when we made ITS in Siófok. A lot of money's been spent by the council, and now it's back in the dumpster. Also talk about the fact that in recent years local governments have been obliged to use the municipal image protection procedures and that the municipal regulations and the municipal photo books have been prepared for millions of forints! These could have been spent, let's say, on refurbishing roads and sidewalks, but it's typical of your administration that you're rushing around, a series of thoughtless steps you're taking with the municipalities. I believe there may have just been a couple of companies, mates, who need to show up at 3200 municipalities now and then draw up these documents. Because this whole story isn't about renaming it. It is very visible that this will place a huge burden on municipalities in the coming period. And it's no coincidence that the mayors have raised their voices against this. The president of the National Association of Local Governments, Jenő Schmidt, the mayor of Tab, said that the municipalities themselves will not be able to decide what will be built in the given settlement, what improvements will be made. Well, you gave me the loopholes again! When something is declared a priority development area, then local construction rules absolutely do not apply. Well, there is not a word about this in this draft legislation that is not the case in the future. I have already shown this picture in my speech before the agenda. [[He's showing me a card.]] I'll do it now; you'll give your name to build on Lake Balaton a 92-bedroom, seven-storey condominium just because it's a priority development area. And now we're talking about the fact that we're not going to mention it here in the settlement facilities... is that, instead of just four documents, two, that's his main message, and we're gonna simplify it, and we're gonna go to the digital space? Well, you should've gone in a long time ago, that's just in parentheses. It's about you needing the municipal areas, the valuable areas you haven't put your paws on yet. But we have seen this through, and here my fellow Members and I know very well that this is what is hiding between the lines. And they don't do anything, they don't say anything, they just nod. My fellow Member Hadházy read it, and I simply don't think he believes it himself. Well, don't you see behind the lines that we're renaming documents, and in the meantime, we're undermining the powers of the local authorities? ! I'm really glad you're stuck with a sentence so you can get in touch with the landscape protection elements. Of course, only if it is not a priority development area. Well, whatever they say it is. Anything! And that's what makes them monsters! And despite the public protests, they won't allow the government to say no to them in building procedures, they'll issue building permits. I do not see the guarantee in this legislation that it is important for you to protect the settlement image. I do not see the guarantee in this legislation that local construction regulations will not be overwritten. 'Cause they're gonna do it because they say it's a priority! It's your government to take care of everything under the radar. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair. Dr. László Varga will be replaced by Dr. Ádám Steinmetz in the notary seat.]] And, well, it's kind of sad in the whole story that there's still one so small in this legislation, right, just a paragraph, let's say, the Act on Chambers of Economy. I didn't hear Mr. Secretary mention at all what was happening at the Chambers of Commerce. [[14.00]] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Each entrepreneur shall pay a compulsory annual chamber contribution. So far, this has gone 90 percent to the regional chambers, 10 percent to the national organization of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, László Parragh. Then we'll see what you're spending the money on. It's not enough for 10 percent now, is it 100 percent? And do you refer here in the explanatory statement to two sentences that then the areas will have greater development and more resources? Don't be ridiculous. They spent the money on marketing and traveling and stuff at the National Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I believe that Mr.László Parragh must be paid for the fantastic ideas he is doing to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, such as taxing the cataclysms or taking away the business tax. You're gonna have to pay for this. Isn't 10 percent enough now? You want the 100 percent? That's what you should answer to, but you listen deeply. My fellow Member Hadházy did not mention in one word the channelling of the Chamber's contribution. That's kind of sad. Therefore, I have also tabled an amendment. The entire mandatory chamber contribution, for which entrepreneurs have nothing but no service, should be abolished immediately. We're here on March 31st, you have to pay for this year, there's a better place for that than entrepreneurs. All in all, then obviously there'll be more circles. I very much hope that Mr Secretary of State will be involved in the debate, and not as in the previous debate, that Mr Zsigo will stand up, and I will no longer be able to respond to the absurdities he is talking about. Get in the debate, and let's discuss here what the whole point of this legislation is. And don't read what you've been told that four documents will turn into two, but the reality of what will become of the municipalities. The body of representatives can determine what is built and where it is built in that settlement; and what color it will be and everything: for example, what style it is built in. That's what it's been all about. But it is not important for you, the important thing is to make it a priority area for development and to override all regulations. The height of the building, the percentage of installation, the green surface, and then such monsters can appear not only on the shore of Lake Balaton, in any area of the country! I very much hope that this debate will indeed be a debate and that we will have an answer to our questions. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-17-1-90	Thank you. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-91	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard with great volume that the problem of my better fellow Member is that we are discussing what is in this law and not discussing what is not in this law. It brings here countless subjects that are not included in this law. Important topics. You can talk about them, just not in this legal debate. We should now talk about what is written in this law and what is the potential impact of this. The Parliament is here to discuss the government's proposals, for example, in order to see what the impact will be, how it will improve people's lives, how it will help, how it will simplify, many such questions. Not questions that you would like to refer to the Parliament; that is what the speech before the agenda and many other forums are for. So, in the first five minutes of your speech, you have brought up issues why there is no such thing as this and this and this and this, and why this regulation is not in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As does the government, so all Members have the right to submit legislative proposals. Now we're discussing what this bill regulates, not what you want here. Congresswoman, you will answer the question if you start a debate I will never run away from, and I am not the type that scares you that you have spread countless false news about this law, your media, your politicians, have published countless false news before we began to negotiate this bill, and everyone's position could have become clear here. In order to enable the municipalities to determine in future the nature of the exploitation of each area, if this bill is adopted, the answer is yes; you said no. From now on, if this law is passed, can the municipality determine the percentage of land installed? The answer is, yes, you can continue to determine the percentage of land installed; yet you spread that you didn't. Can the municipalities determine, in the future, if this law is adopted, the height of the installation of that area? Yes, municipalities can continue to determine the height of installation in the future. Can you determine the size of the plot or determine the minimum green areas? Yeah. The answer to all of these is yes. Once again, you have fully consciously raised the mood and false news about this bill from an attack on the government and political interest, while it is quite clear, for example, that these rights remain with the local authorities, and that the percentage of installation, the minimum required green surface, the height of the building, remain in the competence of the local government, and it is very right that they should remain so. I therefore think that simplification, transparency, digitalisation and modern new design are not basically from the devil. I always say that the legislative proposals for cutting red tape, simplifying cases and reducing papers do not matter what color, what purpose it is to submit them, are essentially eligible things. In the reduction of bureaucracy, in simplifying, for example, the over-bureaucratised systems of local governments and, by the way, arriving at the age of digitalisation, I think that there should not be a debate between us in this regard, that this is not just a justification for existence in 2021, but a need, and that we need to take action in this area. The rationalization, simplification is taking place, and it is not the citizens, the builders, the family house builders themselves who are sucking it up in this way, saying in a pestie way what over-grabbed systems there are often in municipalities from many, otherwise environmental knowledge circles, and I can also give an example of how some municipalities have bureaucratised this too, I think that it is eligible. I also consider the objective of simplifying the procedure, preparation and content of the local construction regulations as part of the effort to rationalise the construction regulation to be eligible. Design and construction processes are accelerated with greater involvement of digitalisation than ever before. There will be no projects, family houses, condominiums that will stand for years 30 or 60 days due to correspondence. Digitalisation also helps to make the whole thing faster. This is also beneficial for municipal authorities, as administrative burdens and costs related to the planning of municipal development and settlement planning are also reduced. There is more to be done on the sidewalk and on the road, honourable Member, to translate into the example you set: because their administrative costs are also falling, there is more to be found in programmes, improvements that the local authorities consider to be important. It is also a positive change for municipalities that the number of development and settlement documents they will prepare will be streamlined. This has only been disparaging by you to two instead of four, which is not the fundamental essence of the bill, but I think it is important and significant change, simplification, as well: we do not have to hide any books or any kind of regulation, but there will be absolutely clear regulation with the two that the bill intends to create. The proposal also includes the digital national registration and digital application of the content of the settlement plan, as well as the complete and partial digitalisation of the reconciliation processes. The reconciliation processes that need to be carried out in one building, that this is transferred to the digital space, the current coronal virus epidemic has also shown this need, will also significantly speed up the process, and who does not want to simplify or speed up these bureaucratic processes? The digital interface of this will be at the Lechner Knowledge Centre. In addition to local authorities, the results of the changes will be very important for individuals and economic operators, i.e. Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, because the planning and authorisation period of a family house or even an industrial area can be significantly shortened and simplified. The local government is often mentioned here. And I always tell you that I don't think people are for local governments, but that's what you always think. I think the authorities are here for the people. And if, in a bill, businesses using industrial areas or individuals who want to build a family home for themselves, it simplifies, accelerates and improves the process, then I think that this is the right direction, and I say once again, that the municipalities should be for the people. And there are a number of positive examples of this in the country, quite rightly, but it would be desirable for this to be achieved at a hundred per cent, at the whole of the municipalities, that they feel that their own perception of role is that they are not, for example, the height of a struggle against a government, or that they are not a manufactory of a political facebook complaint, but an organization for people, so that people and businesses living there are better and easier. [[14.10]] It can therefore be clearly stated that this bill does not undermine the powers of the municipalities, but receives simpler, faster, more efficient and digitised administration, and significantly reduces the costs and administrative burden of the municipalities, and can then, after the crisis, spend the funds released by these administrative and cost reduction solutions for community building, community creation and desirable improvements. Therefore, the KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-92	Thank you. The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. I'll give the floor to Gyula Molnár first, please, Congressman.
u2021-03-17-1-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The thing is, there's only one left, because the second one's out. He was ready, but time was running so far, but I'm trying to stand by myself in the name of the entire faction. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, You really keep your mouth shut that after a warrior revolutionary Tuesday like what you've produced here yesterday, Prime Minister, and then you seem to be able to make such a serious political product from a problem that, let's be honest, it's not in its prime focus, I think, to protect against the epidemic. By the way, if Prime Minister was only so prepared yesterday that he had the same answer for everyone, then let us have a mission like this here, that Karthago, of course, must be destroyed! I therefore think I should say on this agenda that the opposition is not anti-vaccination, because I consider this very important. I might be able to contribute a little bit to your upbuilding. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] I mean, you've been thinking because we've been sitting in politics against each other for a couple of years, and you won't mind if I tell you that we don't believe a word you say? That doesn't surprise you, does it? You're probably acting in a similar way to us sometimes, it's like we're talking about something completely different than what you're hearing and what you're reacting to. Why is it that you are submitting a bill, in which you are now so innocent and truthfully saying that there is no mention of what anyone says here, yet the whole world, the part of the world that deals with this area, the profession, and the part of politics that says there is trouble? I know, and I'm sorry, I don't want to joke about it, because it's very serious, but there's this classic joke that comes to mind that the bear is running in the woods, the rabbit goes to bear, bear, why are you running? The communists are coming in the woods, and they're gonna shoot all the bears. The rabbit starts running with it. He says, "Where are you running, rabbit?" You're small, you have big ears, you're not a bear. They've been more wrong. And now I don't want to be a communist of the Fidesz, I just want to say that, in some ways, in recent years, many of your suggestions have been revealed that when you submit this story, it turns out that when we get to the government decree and get to the enforcement instructions, it's actually a completely different thing. I'd like to say one more very important thing about this, which I know you're going to say is not in it, but I can always see it from your eyes, and your suggestions always suggest why you think that... [[For signal:]] Okay, I know, I trust you. [[Defiance.]] Why do you think that every single thing has to be raised? Why do you think that your excellence means that you know the answer to everything better than those who live on the ground, who do it? Why don't you sometimes accept that people with skills are elected locally in the settlement? Why don't you sometimes accept that you may not be politically representing your culture, but you live there, you grew up there, and you know what people need to do, and you can make the right decisions? Do you really understand that, for example, garbage transport, basic social care, basic health care, certain environmental issues, and this, however, this construction design section must remain and be a very, very important right for those living there in some way. There is no interrogation that, in some case, the government can do something about it, and it must not, in any way, fit into it. Let's look at the details. My friend Hajdu Laci and I were mayors at the same time. It was a very bright era of all XV. Circuits and NewBudas. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Now I would like to say that we really did remember here that there were aces, scht, scht, all kinds of things, general regulatory plans, I really say we spank them, praise them that this is being arranged in some way. And here I would like to commend one more thing, because I really think that the kind of regulation, which, by the way, dictates the same to a few hundred or very small settlements as, let us say, the 140 thousand NewBuda or nearly two million Budapest, are obviously not the right rules. So what I am clearly saying is that this is being arranged, that in some way the chances and opportunities of simplification are being created for the little ones, I think that it is absolutely commendable. This time, Congressman Nacsa shot him, so I can only refer to him because I wanted to say that we should not consider it such a big step now that we are not saying that it is a concept and strategy, but that it is a development plan, but he said that this is not the purpose of this bill, there are more important elements than that. I would also like to commend that part, because it could be a very big step, I think, if it could be moved to the digital space, so there would be a solution to that, I would say once more, especially for the smaller ones, how to do it correctly and well and solve it. Now, let's look at the problems, because we did find some here. You're not hiding that we've had this bill long before, we've heard a long time ago that it's being made, and we've seen some versions. At the time, interestingly, only 31 laws were regulated, which is a very nice number, right? People like this salad law, now it's 33. I would like to comment on something, a very important thing has been removed, although it was one of the original goals, and this is the formula and sentence that this law must also serve to reduce the negative effects of climate change and to adapt to the consequences. That's what we saw in a preliminary version. We don't see it in this law. We think this is important because, as much as you sometimes think you're doing everything you can here, you have to be there in every single thought, every single moment when we make some sort of regulation. We find it very, very worrying that a definition of a Balaton promenade and its coastlines and boundaries has been removed from this bill in a previous version, and my good fellow Member has referred to this in his own comment, and we are concerned that the right to choose roads should be avoided by the municipalities. That could raise a lot of dilemmas and problems. But I'll tell you two things that may seem even stronger, because this one's in there. I continue to say that we do not know what enforcement instructions will be like. You have to understand that for some reason we have the feeling that you have lost too many places, too many important investments have been put at risk by the fact that opposition authorities may not dance as whistle-blowing investors you have sent there, and this obviously raises a lot of problems. And the other thing that we see as difficult in this regard is that, according to this regulation, the relationship between the districts and the capital, from this point of view, seems to be falling apart. I know this sounds funny from the mouth of a Budafoki-Újbuda representative, but it's pretty authentic, because in the last twenty years, I've always said that, even as district mayor, it's a city on certain issues, and then there are things when the districts have to give permissions, but in development matters and operational matters, I've always thought it was a city. So that political compromise, which was established in the 1990s and adapted to the political balance at that time, is the 23 kingdoms, a high kingdom and the local government assigned to each other, which is unfortunate in development matters. I'll give you a specific example, the older ones will remember it, or Mr. Nacsa, now everyone remembers it, because they can see when, in addition to the National Museum in Calvin Square, the glass palace could be built in spite of all the protests of the capital, because the local government's regulatory and construction system made this possible. [[14.20]] Now, what I would like to say is that, as a district politician, I consider it very important for the local government, district, to have a will-making opportunity in this regard, and in some way, the City Council should have the opportunity and the right to incorporate this into a broader concept. So I say, and I think, in a city that's very, very delicate, and you're always careful, especially before elections with a sentence like this, but I still say that sometimes, in order to be able to live in the city, there are some small local communities that are uncomfortable or have to be caused, in exchange for, by the way, a kind of extra opportunity for the city as a whole. I do not want to abuse your patience for a long time now, but it was a bright time in the life of the 1870s in Budapest that the establishment of the Budapest Public Works Council, which would otherwise be very desirable now, I would like to say, when the government, the capital and the working capital drew in the same direction and did not fight against each other. And then, for example, a lot of people protested the Margaret Bridge's plan, saying that we should build another bridge, why the Margaret Bridge, because there was nothing there at the time. And it showed the wisdom of the time that they dared to do that the Margaret Bridge and this is a capital wisdom, it was not built by a local wisdom. And I think if we were to ask today that without the Margaret Bridge, this city could be interpreted, then everyone would say, "No, it wouldn't be possible." But that's not what I was going to say, I just wanted to say that if you understand this, or if you understand this law, or the regulation goes that the districts have more room for manoeuvre, and the capital can't veto them, you can't override them, I personally, and we don't think it's right. Then a tiny sentence was added to this bill, which is about the crisis caused by mass immigration. I don't know if that's what we're throwing at, that's poof, so we jump on it, and that's what we're dealing with from then on, but here's the bill. We cannot really calculate at what moment, when you can declare a crisis, but I really do not understand and it is not clear that at that time some kind of parakeet that has been put before the entire bill is a migration issue, and in the case of a mass immigration crisis, why should the municipal construction plans and strategies be involved. That's not quite clear. Unless they envied Albania, Enver Hoja, when they built bunkers in the right places, because otherwise it is possible that they might have to do it despite the municipal authorities, because I do not think they will contribute to this. So, to sum up, I would like to say that, in spite of all respect, we have now listened to the three pro-government expos, the secretary of state and the two fellow Members, despite which our distrust has not been completely dissipated, we are very much looking forward to what else they will say. So, according to our current knowledge, we will not support this in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-17-1-94	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-95	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. While, on one side, as mayor, I am joining the club of former mayors here, and we are trying to do something professionally and otherwise I am more distrustful of the government in this sense, and perhaps I should like to put it more bluntly, if Mr Secretary of State has raised the question and made the statement that this law does not aim to reduce municipal powers, then I have a simple answer: withdraw it! It's as simple as that. If you do that, I'll believe what you're saying. As long as I do not, allow me to express a great deal of doubt in which I am following my fellow Members. Even because they are making the same mistake that I regularly read on their heads, that you have your own legislation, which requires that you attach a preliminary impact assessment to particularly high-impact laws, not particularly, all proposals. You do not do this in order, despite the fact that this is required in part by law and on the other hand by a regulation in sufficient detail, namely that the impact assessment should examine all the effects of the proposed legislation which it considers significant. If that's not in there, then why the proposal, I'll ask. So, Mr Secretary of State, please convince me that there are no social, economic and budgetary implications of this law, and that there is no need for such an impact assessment. Convince me of that, please. Or if you do think that what I think is going to happen here is that they are going to make a substantive decision on a very large number of municipalities, and, to add it, 31 different laws are being amended with this 83 paragraph salad law, if you consider that to be so, then please take out the documents on the basis of which you have decided and comply with the obligation to share this with those involved in the decision. Like it or not, this includes the opposition, and you have an obligation to provide them with adequate information. That's why I think it's safe to ask. And you are sitting here on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office and expressing your opinion, I think it is extremely disrespectful to hide all this from Parliament, not to give it to you. And in this sense, I think that it applies to the municipalities and not just to Parliament, the way you are dealing with this situation. This includes, for example, just to remind you of their own 2016 law, in which it is stated that the Minister for the Coordination of Ministers' work, who is sitting here on behalf of him, should be the final summary in this regard and should be told here to the Members. So, Mr Secretary of State, if you feel that the administrative burden and its effects are as substantial as what you have said here, then you should also be kind enough to support this by giving us a written justification and providing us with appropriate studies and impact assessments. It is even named what form this is, and it is also described how this should look, Mr. Secretary of State. I could say that what you have put forward and my second reason is to relate to the experience when it was said that you have been more wrong. I'll give you an example. The decision-making process has been significantly adapted to the issue of building permits; the government has taken this into its hands and believes that it can decide everything, and that the officials designated by it will do so, and the municipalities will not have to deal with it. Now, the consequence of this non-working and your decision is that, for example, I will write down in Újpesten you have a house, downtown, typical Újpest homes, adjacent small apartments, 11 apartments. In the 11 apartments there is a section of about 30 square meters, essentially consisting of a single room. With the support of the residents, so with the support of the neighbours, a 9 square meter, perhaps not enough, a 6 square meter kitchen was added, so that the small family, the granddaughter, the parent and the grandmother would not sleep in the same room where they were otherwise cooking. They asked for a building permit, they hired a lawyer, and they got all the permits in accordance with your procedure. Then a few weeks passed, and after an announcement from the government office, the decision was made to grant a far-reaching ruling that this construction was more than 3 percent higher than they thought it would be, so they initiated to break it down. By spending hundreds of thousands of forints in the process of a family actually supporting him so that he could improve his life. [[14.30]] Now there is no man in the area, because the municipality has no authority in this, while you sit here from Parliament, and then sit a little further away, ordering an official to decide what will happen to him. Mr. Secretary, can you be more wrong? I don't think so. Therefore, what has now been tabled here with a lot of proposals, I can safely say that I cannot support this endeavour. I understand when you want to simplify bureaucracy. But if you really want them to show you, and it's not just a story that you want to rush the whole process, because at the moment you are already in a time crisis, and because of your panic situation, you have to make immediate decisions, and it will come into force from June, and before the election, any decision that is important to you is that the municipalities will be taken and excluded from this anyway. That is completely incomprehensible, but I prefer to say that it is unacceptable because interpretation, let's just say, is not an assumption on my part that would be malicious of what special permissions this decision itself gives you in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration. It is likely that the pro-government representatives, 133 brave people, will be able to vote in favour of this, and you will be able to make any decision at the expense of the people I have mentioned to you, for example. They can make any decision, and I think that this vulnerability must be combated. I do not want to take it all the way to the point that I have the constitutional right to fight against the centralization effort, which, in my opinion, is in the direction of the exclusive effort of power, otherwise in the small home and parliamentary representative of Újpest, and that is why I say that what you are doing here is unacceptable. So to sum up, what I can tell you is that those proposals, and maybe let me mention one more, are because we should remember that the Act on Chambers of Economy has been dragged into this story. In his reasoning he forgot to mention this, Mr Secretary of State, he did not mention how important it is for you to support one that, as long as the Hungarian Chambers of Economic Affairs had to share revenue with territorial units, at least on a legal basis, a hungry one has just come, what we call it, not to call it a tiger, because we do not overestimate it so much, but in any case a small baller has come, who wants to collect everything for himself, and wants to have control over everything. At the same time, I assume you would like him to give rewards to the kind-behaved regional leaders and decide what he will support them with. So, after the Parragh scandal, when you made unacceptable statements, looking down on businesses, in violation of them in this way, I think this bill, I would say, if that was the only one in it that could not be supported, then that would deserve not to be supported, but there is much more. Which is why I think that your efforts are little to make people better, so instead of saying honey words, instead of your ginger words, I think we need to reject that. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-17-1-96	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-03-17-1-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In different voices, my opposition fellow Members approached the debate on this bill in different ways. I turn back to the tone in which my better fellow Member began the criticisms of opposition. I can't sneak the least bit of goodwill into my speech against your proposal. I think the intentions here are very clear. In fact, it can be read by the letter of the law as to what your intentions are. The way I look at it is that this is the continuation of your anti-communicative policy, based on the withdrawal of the powers of your municipalities. This is a power game that is aggravated by the fact that this work is actually being done during the darkest period of an extremely serious epidemiological situation and presented to the Parliament. Before I criticise this proposal in more detail, I would like to refer back to the closing words of Secretary General Zsigó at the end of this item, who specifically pointed out that we are now experiencing the most difficult period, and that is why it is particularly irresponsible to start such a process, which will cause further confusion, further legitimate indignation in the municipalities, when the municipalities, like the prime bastions of defence, are burdened with a lot of administrative and specific other tasks. This proposal, in this way, must be underlined that at the worst possible time this proposal, supported by absolute power-related intentions, was put forward. Congressman Nacsa once again criticized the opposition quite hard, saying that we expect him to do this regularly, pointing out that it is not the man for the municipality, but the municipality for the people. I think everyone agrees perfectly, and I don't even remember anyone turning that around here in Parliament. But it is very important that the local authorities are indeed for the service of people, a particular community, performing very important public tasks, providing very important public services. Therefore, you will make yourself aware of the fact that the municipalities are being oppressed by austerity, the powers of the municipalities are constantly being withdrawn, such as in this legislation, and that resources are being diverted, not the cities, or, where appropriate, the mayors of opposition, but the people who live there, because the people who live there will not be effectively protected by a given municipality in the epidemiological situation, or can not provide basic public services such as drinking water or public transport, and we could list them for a long time. So that's what you should finally be aware of, to finish a policy based on harsh restrictions on self-governments, behind which your intentions in power technology are very clear. Well, this is the bill: this has been said in the expoes, in the justification, simplification, rationalisation, reduction of bureaucracy, and similar, we hear very, very kind concepts and words for the ears. On the other hand, we are talking about centralisation, a new reduction in the powers of the local authorities, behind it is political, and we can say that the economic intentions are also clearly visible. On the one hand, from the letter of the law, and on the other hand, knowing you, it is quite certain that this is what is happening. But I would add that there are a lot of technical errors in this proposal, so it also causes uncertainties that we do not yet see the explanation for and serious irresponsibleness. In particular, if we look at the impact this will have on local authorities in the face of uncertainty, it will not reduce the burden but increase the burden. It has already been said that practically these development plans need to be rewritten. At the beginning of the more detailed criticism: there are such very cynical ideas that have just been referred to by my fellow Member, the crisis caused by mass immigration. We know that this is already in place, and the law currently in force is part of such a reference that in such an extraordinary legal order, in an exceptional situation, the government can effectively override settlement planning with manual control. At the same time, this is changing, so the government is going a little deeper on the basis of the bill, a little bit deeper, a little further, and I know that there is this crisis caused by mass immigration, which is being extended from time to time by the government. While we know that the migration crisis will be a long and long process, it is certain that it will be here with us in the next decade, so it can be seen that this is such an extraordinary situation that appears to be permanent temporarily and that this basically determines how and with what concrete practical implementation the municipalities can use these powers. Indeed, it has also come to light that it has a say in the relations between the districts and the capital. We have read from this proposal that it is possible that there will be a government dictatorship to which it will force the capital to enforce it against the districts. So such a tension is also displayed as a power-technical intention. With regard to Lake Balaton, I have already said to my fellow Member that a decisive part of the law extends the government's options in the direction of bringing in regulations relating to such waterfront areas. [[14.40]] For me, it is a great heartbreak to take another step in the protection of monuments, to make another amendment that reduces the effectiveness of the protection of monuments, and to open the gates here again before new mistakes are made. It is quite a shocking process that the institutional system of monument protection has been virtually destroyed, and we can see in quite an amazing way how very valuable monuments are destroyed. Many times behind this, we find concrete economic intentions about how and how a building loses the status of monument protection. That's quite an outrage. I think we should all be very, very determined about our architectural and cultural heritage. This law therefore overrides the decade-long practice of domestic spatial planning in a gross and unconventional way. This already includes, in particular, the possibility of manual control of how the government is able to withdraw the rights of local governments. My fellow Members have also pointed out that we do not know the planned government regulations, but we do not expect too much good from them, which will then determine what will actually happen. State Secretary Soltés referred to transparency and predictability. Only one data: since 2016, the Law on the formation and protection of the built environment has been amended 32 times. Well, so much for transparency and predictability. This is not typical of your government in any way. We can already say that this continuous change is very difficult for the municipalities to follow, but in this regard I think that the protests that we now hear give the most accurate answer to what the municipalities think about it. Nor has it been quite clear that the additional burden of this re-launched planning will be such that the costs of it will be compensated by the government to the municipalities. This will have specific economic implications. I do not want to repeat the criticisms and criticisms that my fellow Members have already said, but I would like to raise a few points that may not have yet been mentioned. It leads out the different types of design genres, simplifies them, becomes fewer of them, but there are some contradictions, because we are seeing a lot of contradictions in perspective, conceptual level planning and specific settlement planning and settlement planning. So there are, in fact, settlements, bodies-accepted perspectives, but what about them? How can they be displayed in a one-level or two-level plan? In particular, there will be serious losses for planning planes and time distances, and there are also contradictions as to how these can be resolved and enforced. It is not clear what the design eligibility will be for the different design levels and categories. About everyone can write a concept, and for a settlement planning plan a specific design entitlement is required. Nor can it be seen how this will be enforced now. With what right, with what professional expectations can one make these new-level plans? Similarly, there will be uncertainty in our reading of closed gardens. In many agglomeration settlements, the former closed gardens are practically a residential area, holiday areas are also transformed into residential areas, but on the other hand, the infrastructure conditions that we need do not exist. This will also give rise to uncertainty. Similarly, we see a problem with the management of settlement settlement contracts. Here, too, preliminary study plans are needed when they are trying to conclude settlement settlement settlement contracts with stakeholders in addition to a concept. Nor does this proposal regulate how such preliminary study plans can be drawn up. Anyone who has been mayor, congressman in the municipality knows exactly how long this process is, and means constant stress and continuous planning. I would like to mention another very, very serious problem. Here we have detected a contradiction in the presentation of different infrastructure trails, the various utility registers and the presentation of the fixed infrastructure on plans will also be in an uncertain position. We have the hierarchical links between the plans, we need to know a higher level, it has to comply with different lower levels of plans. At the same time, contradictions show that there will be nowhere to live up to. Therefore, it is not possible to see how to transfer the indication of fixed infrastructure. I do not think that it is necessary for any of my fellow Members to explain the dangers they pose if they do not have proper infrastructure registers, there are no proper public utility registers. Specific human lives are at risk, it's a very, very dangerous process. We do not really see the proposal doing something with this either. Overall, I can say that, in all directions, this is an unacceptable proposal. Otherwise, it would be best to withdraw and address this issue by asking and involving the profession, involving local government associations and local government representatives, but certainly not in such an extremely serious epidemiological situation, when we are being fought every day by health workers and everyone who is doing their job in the front line. We can never thank them enough for that. I would also ask my honourable pro-government colleagues to think of their own constituencies, to think about how this amendment might affect settlements in their constituencies, perhaps consult with the leaders of the settlements concerned, and to make their decision accordingly, rather than be governed by the faction discipline. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-17-1-98	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to János Bencsik.
u2021-03-17-1-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[The congressman's mic isn't working.]] Does it work? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I'd like to ask for technical assistance. [[Interjection: He's on his way! The Officer of the Office will bring the congressman a hand-held microphone. János Bencsik is checking his microphone again.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I'd like to ask for technical assistance. (Interjection: He's on his way! The Officer of the Office will bring the congressman a hand-held microphone. János Bencsik is checking his microphone again. ) Going? (Interjections: No!) Then I'll talk out loud. I'd like to ask the chief clerks how to hear it.
u2021-03-17-1-100	I don't think so. Just a moment, please, Mr. Congressman. We'll take care of it in a moment.
u2021-03-17-1-101	Can I get a microphone stand? [[The congressman's mic's working for a second.]] No! The sound's here. [[He's pointing at the hand mike.]] Then it might be confusing. Thank you so much for your help. [[The congressman's mic is down again. Dr. Adam Steinmetz intervenes.]] Okay. [[You will continue to comment using a manual microphone.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three comments on the bill before us. The first is that any package of proposals for urban development and planning plans, regardless of their content and professional nature, can only be effective if they fulfil three conditions. One is that the central state power sees a partner in the municipalities. The second is that development policy is not subject to policy, and the third is that political blackmail can therefore be excluded. The fact is that at present, in view of the operation of this system over the past decade, none of the three conditions exist. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have caused Cold War situations since the 2019 municipal elections, which resulted in you, especially now during the coronal virus epidemic, teasing the entrepreneurial sector with the local government sector in a difficult situation due to the epidemic. They said they should fight each other down, who's gonna jump at whose throat. This isn't right. In the meantime, we see that for those who are important and kind to you, they provide a helping hand, I am thinking of the automatic compensation of the municipalities below 25,000. Above all, the municipalities can only indebte, take market credit. But a number of other government measures can be mentioned here. On the other hand, everyone's trying to get behind the letters right now. In recent days, we have also seen from the opposition representatives and the press side that everyone is trying to figure out what the underlying purpose of this bill is, what its true purpose is. We don't know. Maybe there isn't. It may also be that this is merely a professional proposal, with which the government's objective is indeed what we can read in the explanatory memorandum, so that the administration can be as quick, simpler and more efficient as possible, and that the legislation on the settlement and development of the areas can be adopted by the municipality as quickly, efficiently and by modern means as possible. But the mere fact that everyone is guessing is a sign of a devastating lack of trust between the practitioners of power and those who bear the consequences of exercising power. I think, by the way, that this is a problem beyond itself, that at this level there is no longer any confidence on the part of the legislators and on the side of those who bear the consequences of the laws, the laws that have been passed. [[14.50]] I must say that this is not, by the way, the fault of opposition representatives in the first place or solely. So it doesn't have to be malicious, it doesn't have to be anti-government to look at a bill with a fundamental scepticism or mistrust, which lays down high principles in the general justification, but otherwise opens the legal loophole to government interventions that have been closed so far, and knowing the political decision-making process of the last 11 years, the logic of the Orbán system, we have to say that this fear is not unfounded. We do not know what the fine prints will be, and we will be able to judge whether this law will be good or not, because these government decrees will probably be born after the law is passed. You can already know that last week's Hungarian Gazette shows that a five-person committee will assess those installation requests for the Rusty Zone Action Areas, and a five-member government committee will decide on all these. It doesn't mean so much good, you're so very positive, I don't know, you can't have illusions. You say that construction can be accelerated and the administrative burden of municipal administration can be reduced. On the other hand, the professional and non-governmental organisations that you have not consulted, and have not been involved in the preparation of decisions, say that this will simplify the practice and mean that the government can rewrite the development and settlement plans of any settlement in a regulation and define settlement and construction requirements. This is the opinion of György Gémesi, the head of the Association of Hungarian Local Governments, who has been the mayor of Gödöllő for 30 years, so he speaks from experience, and he has also not been consulted with his organization, according to whom the essence of the bill is to take away from the settlements the opportunity to make decisions on the ground in certain zoning ratings. In addition, so far, they have had to consult the public. That won't be mandatory, either. So we're going in exactly the opposite direction, just as we've been talking about a lot of the 21st century. We should keep it modern in the first century. György Gémesi said to HVG that now the government can decide, on the basis of the decree, instead of the inhabitants of the settlement, what improvements it wants to make. And if I have to decide, as a Member of Parliament or as a citizen interested in municipal affairs, that, in the context of a bill the details of which are still unclear, I will rely on the goodwill of the Hungarian government, and I will believe you, or I will lean towards the latter, György Gémesi and the Association of Hungarian Local Governments. I have a third comment as a closing point, and it is that XXI. The challenges of the 20th century, the modernisation challenges that we often talk about, do not go beyond digitalisation. I do not doubt that the current bill may have positive effects, especially in digital administration, but I generally miss the use and reference of key concepts such as urban ecology, green and blue infrastructure investments, urban information technology and sustainable economic development. This approach should go through this whole proposal, honourable Members, this is the approach that we miss from this proposal, and from all the related proposals in general, and this approach is what the Civil Response movement represents. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-03-17-1-102	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to László Varga, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It was clear to me what positives were highlighted by the pro-government representatives in this proposal. Obviously, that's all they were talking about. I think that the elements of the proposal, which are specifically about simplifying the lives of settlements, especially in the area of settlement development, or in terms of settlement planning, are certainly welcome. And, well, I think it's the 21st. moving towards digitalization in the century is also a very important thing. However, if we look at the decisions and government proposals of the last year, which were in front of the House, then we cannot have such a good feeling, we cannot be so calm, because basically, if we look at a long year, let us say, after the municipal elections in October 2019, then your decisions are basically very clearly visible, and these two circles have been strengthened after the outbreak of the Crown Virus and under the cover of it. Firstly, after a few weeks, which was filled with such expectation that perhaps there could be a peace beyond party politics in the Hungarian municipal system, you then launched a very clear attack on the municipal system, otherwise specifically against the opposition-led municipalities on several occasions. This was already noticeable before the outbreak of the epidemic, and I will tell you a story that will be linked to this presentation, even if indirectly, but after the outbreak, it is very clear, several speeches have been made here in Parliament in the last two days, significantly, drastically reduced revenue from the municipalities during this period, even though in the front line of the defense the municipalities should have just needed extra support. This is the case, however, in countries with a happier fate from us to the west, where governments are just supporting this kind of work of the municipalities. And, well, it was also obvious that a lot of licenses and powers were removed from the municipalities. Obviously, public life, politics, opposition politicians have often been busy with a loss of revenue, which also determines basic city management issues, for quite a reason, because the operation is at the border with many local governments in Hungary. At the same time, the powers of construction have been removed from the municipalities or a significant part of them. There has been little mention of this; it may be related to this proposal. There have been powers at the government offices which, I think, are better for you, if your people do so, to decide on certain issues which, by the way, also determine the development of settlements, on official matters, than that, otherwise, opposition-led municipalities may decide for the benefit of those living in the settlement. So there's been a history in this sense. There is another group of their decisions, and I feel that since the municipal election you are growing in a real fear of a change of government. I note that I believe that there is a six-party opposition alliance on the right track towards this, a joint programme for joint candidates, we really want to change things for the good of the country, which does disturb many millions of Hungarians in your slowly 11-year governance. In this context, it appears that they are preparing for this period. This is how I think, by the way, let's say, the foundational university issues, but where appropriate, the recapitalisation of the MCC with large resources in this sense, and a lot of smaller and bigger decisions have been made in this spirit in my view over the past period. Now, this proposal, if we take off the things that have been said by my pro-government fellow Members, and those who are listening to you, obviously think that, well, that's okay, there's nothing to see here, so let's move on. And I think that it meets both of the issues that I have listed, this proposal for a decision group. Remember a decision from this time. The rules of the local trade tax were amended before the crisis. They said that local industrialisation tax revenues should first be used by local authorities to finance local public transport. [[15.00]] I have then told many fellow Members here in this House that we should stop, because that means that if the local industrialisation tax revenue of a municipality is higher than it can be used to finance local community transport, then you can have the state aid and you will not be given state resources to the municipalities for this purpose, because we know that this is a pro form only a mandatory municipal task in the capital, but it is also a legitimate task that people are required to have this issue in order over a certain size of settlement, so that is also in my home town, Miskolc, that people rightly expect the quality of community transport to be adequate. They said that we were talking nonsense, they said that we were alarming, they said that this was a grammatical, technical question, and that this was the reality. Even Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State, promised here that this would not happen, so the state aid would remain, and then it was taken away. The practice has become that after a change that you said was a technical and grammatical change, what we expected or expected as a negative scenario in this situation has finally occurred. Now it's the same fear. In addition to the many positive things that have also been said, there is a rubber rule in this draft, which is about the fact that, in the case of mass immigration, in the case of a related emergency, which the government can obviously order by decree, the exact concept of this is very long, and I am not boring my fellow Members here in this regard, there are quite a variety of situations that can be feared by such a mass immigration situation, and the legislation gives us a wide variety of ways to order this, so in this situation, they can actually overwrite the development plans, ideas and settlement plans of all Hungarian settlements in any way. This theoretical possibility has now been given, according to this rule, in the last speeches I have not heard reassuring sentences about why this is in it at the time, so what is the specific life situation that justifies this legislation or this section. By the way, I note that this should be a debate then, so I would very much like it to be said then and to reassure me and my fellow Members that we will not go as if we were amending the rules on local business tax on the financing of local public transport. They also said that this is such a very theoretical thing that we are talking about here, and that the practice and the practice will be that there will be state aid. We would therefore like to see clearly in this, because I think that it cannot be acceptable that here, before the election, we prepare for their possible defeat, in which we believe that there will be a change of government, and that a more democratic, freer Hungary will come after the next parliamentary election, so it cannot be that, in this period of time, you will use this rubber rule, if possible, to modify settlement plans with a government decree, even if you satisfy certain investors or other interests. This is unprecedented, unreasonable, unreasonable. If you think I'm overthinking this question, please calm me down. Then calm me down. What I see is that many council leaders, leaders of local government associations, say what they say in vain. My opposition colleague, who spoke before me, referred, for example, to György Gémesi, who is also concerned in this regard. To sum up, therefore, this legislation cannot be supported in this form, even with some forward-looking elements, because of our previous experience, when it gives the government a theoretical opportunity to review and discuss matters falling within the competence of the municipalities. Because, of course, Congressman Nacsa has said that it is possible to determine the height of the building, the percentage of the installation, the green surface index, everything, of course, that a local government can make a decree on this, but in certain theoretical situations the government can regulate these issues differently in a given settlement, and if the two are contrary to the municipal regulation, then the government decree is valid. Now, this is what you have not talked about, and that is what we need in order to be able to properly judge the fate of this legislation, we need additional information. By the way, there may be so much explanation that it is simply necessary to write the words "mass immigration" into everything, in every presentation, and then one of the codificators found this opportunity here, but I don't want to joke about it. Maybe there really is a reason for what we're asking. Please respond and take part in the debate. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-03-17-1-104	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, representative of DK. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today's salad law, which is before us, which, as has already been said, amends 33 substantive laws and 88 It amends them with its paragraph 88 (sic!) when it comes to the simplification that was originally announced. We need to simplify something by means of a paragraph, and the 33 laws, I feel, as mayors of practice at some time, of this whole amendment, which affects all the municipalities of 3186 or 3176 in some way, so now, when this long-term debate is taking place, we know that there is a debate about the fate of all the settlements of Hungary, which we do not know exactly the outcome of, because we have before us the said paragraph 83, but we do not know the decree of the government that will order implementation, which can mean a complete transcript. So now we're forced to argue about what's in front of us. The proposal before us, I think, is the continuation of centralization, so centralization of the public administration, not simplification, suggests a clear centralization for us; all the more so, because the so-called spatial structure plan, which is in force in any settlement that will be simplified here, has been approved by the Hungarian government, so we have not been able to approve the spatial structure plan so far, it has always been approved by the government, especially in the case of Budapest or larger cities, in the case of districts, but in the first place Budapest's spatial structure has been approved by an independent government referral. Now there is such a simplification... There is a deadline, I see, there are different deadlines, I don't know that before the election such 2007 deadlines and extension deadlines are set up here, what they will mean, but one thing is certain: that we now make two of four of these local regulations, those four laws or local decrees, or local government decisions for us, so we had to do it ourselves, this government created it. It also had a philosophy as to why the previously regulated thing had to be divided into fours. Now they've figured out that, well, then we're gonna simplify again, and then we're gonna have two regulations for the settlements. For us, a district the size of which I was mayor, the four plans cost 160 million forints. I believe that this was a billion-dollar item, driven through all the municipalities, all over the country, and in the period of this government, that we are starting to make a market, the designers have run out of work. It's the better version of them making a market, so it's not like we're making a market for designers, because we need something, we need to work now, and that's what's behind it. I've been thinking about it. Then there are two-thirds laws, half laws that are being amended, even the House Act is being amended in this context, in the framework of simplification. I have to add, if I agree with anything, it's an amendment to the condominium law. Of course, this also has an executive decree, and it will come to light that this is to be welcomed or not, but the Houses Act is a huge failure at the moment that 100 percent of votes are needed in order to change anything in-house. [[15.10]] In this law, I find that the majority of the owners are sufficient for such a controversial, non-residential room or anything to be voted in-house. The other thing I would like to mention is that we spent 160 million forints on these plans, we put them in an inventory of assets, and we spent it properly. As a matter of fact, it was not mentioned, nor did the author tell us what was going on with these four plans. So here we had to solve such tasks as digitalization, because digitization is otherwise solved in all settlements, at least I know urban settlements better, we sit in the main architect, and any street, any house, is digitally filmed, so even trees or bushes are on it. But it didn't go there for free, we had to make it for huge money. I stress that in my case it was 160 million forints and it was a strict deadline, it was so hard to do, there was nothing else to do but pay, and of course, it was an external customer everywhere. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Csaba Czegledy!]] These external customers were offered, this external customer was selected by tender somewhere, and there was not much choice for a municipality than to entrust them. In addition, you need local knowledge and a database, so you can't let any designer do one of these, because he's gonna learn how to plan on us, and it's gonna cost you even more. So we understand that this is how it's supposed to happen. The other thing I think is that the others have noticed the same thing, but that I should only stay with the capital city, Budapest and its districts, so that certain things are named here, which interestingly appear here in the spirit of simplification and digitalization and in the spirit of legal harmonisation and legal certainty. In other cases the Lake Balaton is named either Lake Fertő or the mines. The Mining Act, I believe, has been amended about 11 times in the last two years. The Mining Act is very popular. I don't know why, but the Mining Act has been amended about 11 times in the last two years, so since we have this cycle now, maybe more than once. It's very popular. By the way, on the previous item, the Personal Income Tax Act, we debated for two and a half hours, and this also amends the Personal Income Tax Act. If we wanted to simplify it, it could have been amended here, in this salad law for two and a half hours, but here it does not apply to us to simplifying it. The next thought I would like to mention is the relationship between Budapest and small settlements. So in the case of Budapest, things are named, such as the regulation of the Danube quay, otherwise several things appear, which are by name, such as the Olympics. The Olympics appear in two laws here among the many amended laws. I also thought that market creation and the creation of the background of the Olympics are part of this law. All the more so, because the Rust Belts Act or our previous legislation has also been amended, and not too long ago we discussed for several hours what we consider a rust Zone. In fact, the municipalities and settlements learned from this debate that they had a rust zone. So we decided without having a talking relationship with the settlements, what we qualify as a rust zone. On the one hand, these rust areas are very important in urban terms to have something happening there, on the other hand, they have been standing there for many decades and getting cheap access to them, and on the other hand, they need to be regulated only so that they can get access to this property. So I feel that this rust zone also contains a very significant Budapest scenario, which is likely to affect Budapest very significantly. Finally, I would like to mention that we have two such regulations, two plans. We're going to have a development and settlement plan, and we're going to have another local construction policy. So this will not mean much in the sense that the local government, that the local government itself decides on its own affairs with the population living there, does not give an answer to what this provision or amendment of law strengthens, and in what way better service will be provided to the people living there. It really doesn't quite make sense, which is why you can't vote for it. Simplifying is more than that. We should speak frankly, Mr Secretary, about what is really behind this, because your government has created the fact that we have spent all this money on it, and we are going to start again, and we are going to spend money on it again, because there is no indication of the source from which we are going to do it. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-03-17-1-106	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs. Potocska, Anita Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate has been going on for hours now, quite rightly, because it is a very important piece of legislation, and my fellow Members from the government side have not yet joined the debate, but I very much hope that my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, will respond to what has been quite legitimately raised here from the opposition side. And why I'm bringing you the subject of Lake Balaton because it's connected here. Everything related to architecture and the expropriation, exploitation and integration of Lake Balaton should be discussed in this debate. Obviously, what I've been telling you all the time, these installations that you guys tolerate silently and assist in the process that goes on at Lake Balaton, for example, may come from the fact that the main architect's institution in Balaton has been spoken of for a very long time, but I haven't heard it happen yet. It would be very useful, because then at least we know what landscape around Lake Balaton should be and which property fits into this landscape. It is no coincidence that this Balaton architect, the head architect, may not have been appointed yet, although he may have, I hope the Secretary of State will confirm that he has already been appointed, and I have now searched the Internet and attended the meetings of the Balaton Development Council, which is usually on the agenda, and I have not heard it happen. Perhaps not by accident, because there is no man on his feet who gives his name to this, that for investments at Lake Balaton, luxury investments, hotel development and continuous construction of apartment houses he would say that this is okay. He wouldn't say that. Well, everyone can see that these buildings, these real estates, they just don't fit into that landscape protection area, and they also have continuous investments in nature conservation areas. Then I refer back to what my fellow Members have pointed out, that what you like is said that the priority development area is extremely important from a national strategic point of view, and that then local construction rules and all kinds of regulations do not apply to that area. So what we are saying to my fellow Members is that we are protecting the settlements, because the people who live there know best what is the infrastructure that serves the interests of the settlement and the interests of its inhabitants. I will also join my fellow Members, indeed the municipality is for the people, and they must be designed to operate the municipality and given powers that they can carry out this task. But this legislation is detracting from the municipalities a right to tell them what will be built in that settlement. It may be said that this is false news, but it is clear that we see in the legislation that you are doing here in the Hungarian Parliament, it absolutely shows that you are amending the legislation as you please and then putting aside what is in the people's real interest and we are right to be concerned about the withdrawal of municipal powers. That is what this legislation is all about. So when we talk about Lake Balaton, I would like you all to look inside yourselves, go down to the areas, and take a look around. [[15.20]] You don't have to go to the Croatian coast, and I don't know where to go to Adria, but come down to the Hungarian sea and go along the shore of Lake Balaton and look at the nature damage that you're authorized to do. We have come this far, that at Lake Balaton there are no real estate that is not your interest, there are real estate, investments that are contrary to the interests of Lake Balaton. And you write reeds, even though we know very well, the reeds cause an ecological problem around Lake Balaton that can be joked about and that it does not relate to the law, but it does belong to it, because we need to protect our natural resources. And you and Minister Mager, the Minister without a wallet for national wealth, should stand here and stand up to protect national wealth and not squander it into private hands, and then build monsters like this one in Balatonvilágos. And you're not doing anything. This is what should be about when architectural legislation is introduced, that they finally come to themselves and withdraw the government regulations that are against the Hungarian people. And it's not just at Lake Balaton, it's at Lake Venice and Lake Fertő, because you need everything. But, you know, Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-17-1-108	Thank you. I give the floor to Nacha Lawrence, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-109	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Just to put some of the information that has been said in order to correct the development of the debate and to change your mind about the support of the bill, I would like to point out that several people have mentioned this, that the town-view regulation is in no way affected by this law, and that the priority investments must also comply with the town-view regulations, I would just like to state that to the Member. The fact that 67 Balaton beaches won more than two billion forints last year, the municipalities, to renovate 67 Balaton beaches, obviously you call it destruction, what is development and development. 67 Balaton beaches can be renewed under the Kisfaludy program, this is more than two billion forints, I repeat. There are a lot of improvements, a number of which have already been mentioned here several times since the Castle of Szigliget, honourable Member. It is very difficult to start a debate and continue a debate in such a way that it also denies fundamental facts and does not recognise the results that have happened, especially in addition to Lake Balaton. The fact that in many places free beaches and paid beaches are also European, modern, modern, water blocks, lockers, service rooms, showers and the rest are now equipped, and this is absolutely not the one left here, Gyurcsányist, with a little GDK atmosphere, which was between 2002-2010, when the beaches in Balaton were abandoned, the weeds grew in and the rest, as they treated Lake Balaton in comparison with a tremendous development. I don't think you're credible to your own constituents as a Balaton representative if you don't admit that there's been a lot of improvement. The renovation of the Balaton bike circuit also affects your constituency, where you are now for the primary... that's why so many people are talking about it. The left-wing representatives gave the man a primal mood that Budafok's name and XV had been mentioned a thousand times. district and Siófok and Pécs, everyone who wants to run in the great Gyurcsányist wreck derby will bring it to the parliamentary debate, and if you say it here many times, it will be in the record that Budafok and XI have been said 17 times. The name of the district, and that's why you'll get a buksisimi from the boss. Returning to the bill, however, the Government has decided, fellow Members, that it will give HUF 3.5 billion to help local governments, precisely to prepare these regulations in the next three years, which, if the Parliament adopts this law, will bring into force this government decree, which will provide HUF 3.5 billion to help local governments. This was the case once before when the municipalities received one million forints in 2017 to prepare the regulations. It has never been so before, honourable Member. Again, we are talking about the fact that the facts must be known, and the facts must not be denied, and the results must not be denied. So there are results, there is help, and there is a direction of development. While you are saying how much tax revenue you want for the municipalities, but not for the investors, not for the industrial park development, not for the investment, but for the municipalities to increase their tax revenue and increase their room for manoeuvre, these two will not work together. Then the local government's tax revenue will increase, then the municipal budget will increase, if there is investment, investment and development. These belong together, honourable fellow Members. And the last thing we're gonna do is put it right, and I think we should have done it a lot in the last few months, and the trade tax has also been said. No one took away the business tax and withdrew it, it remained in the settlement, as a result of the crisis it remained with the entrepreneurs in the settlement, who, if they have a HUF 500 income, but by the way, their monthly expenditure is HUF 1.5 million, will still be collected by the municipality, because the business tax is revenue-based, and does not see, for example, a completely closed restaurant or hotel minus in this period, or a pension minus, if they already have a HUF revenue, then the business tax is immediately withdrawn by the municipality. All that's happened here is that it's left with the local people. Once again, that's why it's important that the local government is there for the people. No one withdrew the trade tax, did not enter the central state register, we will not vote on it here during the big budget amendments this year, but stayed with those people, the companies in trouble, the building blocks of the local community, who create value and organise a community there. I don't think it's a bad thing. I think it's a good thing. I would also ask you to understand these aspects, to include these aspects in your thinking, and to ask you to support the bill at the end. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-17-1-110	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Anita Potocska, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-111	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I have never debated the beach development project, with which I fully agree that Article XXI. If you visit the shore of Lake Balaton and look for a holiday at the Hungarian sea, not on the Adriatic, as you normally do. But it is not about these investments, the luxury investments that take place in Keszthely. 40 trees have been cut down, while the mayor explains it, although it was clearly necessary for Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's son-in-law to make a fantastic investment there on the shore of Lake Balaton. At Tihany, half the mountain was taken, and he received a HUF 500,000 environmental damage penalty! What are we talking about? ! They took a very significant part of the mountain on the Tihany Peninsula, they completely bulldozed the whole thing, so they were punished for 500 thousand forints. So this is not about the investments that my fellow Member Nacsa has outlined. I couldn't agree more, Siófok got a lot of money, thank you very much. But those areas, for example, and then let's go to Balatoni Hajózási Zrt.'s reorganization plan, this is another of my favorite topics about which you can talk for hours about what you've done to the Bahart, but you've just run away from renting sailing ports, because there was too much opposition pressure, and they didn't dare to do that, at a price below, they give you a long, 15-year operating right to the 11 sailing ports. We raise our voices because we say we've had enough. The Hungarian people also say that we have had enough, and our task is that when we want to prepare an investment that, for example, is foreign to the countryside, and all architects say that alien to the countryside, then we have our place, and we have to say that it is enough, no longer, and withdraw the building permit. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-17-1-112	Thank you. I will also give the floor to László Varga, representative of the MSZP, for a two-minute speech. Here you go, notary.
u2021-03-17-1-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I expected my fellow Member Nacsa to say that we will have some kind of response to the way in which the crisis caused by mass immigration is linked to this presentation. We did not receive this, and I am simply stating that, so probably the question that I raised in my previous speech will not be answered. This does not strengthen our confidence, so it is quite clear that this proposal will not be supported unanimously by the opposition, perhaps I can say so. What I asked for in two minutes was obviously the idea of a representative of the local business tax. He himself told me what the problem with this decision is, what the two basic problems are. One is that the local business tax is a revenue-based, revenue-based tax, in Hungarian, in the case you say, who had 500 HUF in revenue, you have said very little to help this 500 HUF, while for those sectors who have not been hit by the crisis, or who have been able to even grow a little during this period, we know that there are also sectors, and it can be of greater help to those who have not been hit by the crisis. [[15.30]] So this is not a well-targeted decision, and the decision was made in this form specifically because the revenues of the municipalities could be reduced. From the same source, I think it could have been a much better target for crisis sectors, that is my claim. And the other, you said, after the decision originally made in November, that it would be compensated, automatically under 25,000, and then they would negotiate. After that, in an outrageous way, only the Fidesz municipalities were given before Christmas, almost immediately otherwise, and then 1.5 billion in support [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Szeged, Salgótarján...]] as a Christmas present, mandatory municipal duties. The cities of opposition, with county rights, have been in the process ever since. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They're waiting for specific information. A citizen of Miskolc is nothing more secondary [[The president's ringing again.]] [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Szeged, Salgótarján...]] As a Christmas present, mandatory municipal duties. Since then, opposition-led cities with county rights (the president announced the end of the timeframe by jogging the bell). ) are waiting for specific information. A citizen of Miskolc is nothing more secondary (The President is ringing again.) as well as those where they were given such resources. Thank you, Mr. President. (Lőrinc Nacsa: Szeged, Salgótarján...)
u2021-03-17-1-114	Thank you. I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction, for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Where you returned, Congressman Nacsa, I would like to respond to what you said that the municipality is for the people, indeed. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I have already mentioned that, indeed, the municipalities provide people with a great deal of important services and public services, so when you take funds from the municipalities, you make decisions that the resources planned by the municipality are not available, but they have actually hijacked the revenue from the tax on cars. Another decision was to withdraw from public funding for public transport and from public support for local public transport. This does not punish municipalities, opposition mayors, but people, because these services will be available in a lower quality. But it is very, very important, Mr Nacsa, as my fellow Member has said, that the municipalities must now draw up a budget, they must now plan the budget, and they do not know exactly what kind of compensation they can expect because of the negotiations and appearance negotiations. For example, in the case of Pécs, it would take HUF 5.7 billion to bring this year's budget straight, but they can't even tell when there will be a meaningful response from the government. I would also like to ask both Mr Secretary of State and Congressman Nacsa to use their authority and try to steer the government in the direction of taking these negotiations seriously, to consider the municipalities as partners, and to make decisions on these very important compensations as soon as possible. Thank you.
u2021-03-17-1-116	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur how he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-17-1-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Statement by the first left-wing representative, Anna Potocsáné Kőrösi [[Anita Kőrösi: It's okay!]] All I can tell you, dear Congresswoman, is that, I don't know, it must be bad to sit there, something is affecting you, because the screaming you've been doing here, and the way you've given your otherwise legitimate comments, I'm still saying that it would be okay, but as you said, it's a disaster. [[Mrs. Potochanya Anita Kőrösi intervenes.]] Sorry, we are talking about a subject that affects the entire country and defines its future in such a way that we really, after all, live here, are really important to all of us on Lake Balaton, we really care about the created world and the natural image, but the built environment is equally important. And what you can really tell from your comment is that while we're on the Adriatic, we're on vacation on the Adriatic, and we're writing reeds at Lake Balaton. So stop with all this horse-zung and all this fuss, because what you're saying is just incomprehensible. What you're trying to achieve is incomprehensible. [[Anita Kotocsány Kőrösi: The voters understand! That's the point.]] You've had plenty of time to tell me what you wanted to hear. Things who want to take what, which lake and what environment: I would only ask you to sit next to him next time Ferenc Gyurcsány comes in, ask him what happened to an area of the autumn resort. Ask him what Ferenc Gyurcsány planned, let's say, at Lake Venice, Sukoro and so on and so on. Let's talk about this when you uncover these things, and then they'll come back to light, and they'll find out what new partners they have. And all I can say to you from now on is that the townscape regulation is a separate regulation, we do not touch it; for a priority investment, the townscape regulations must be respected. I don't know if you liked reading the law, and I suspect you didn't, but you took a thing or two out of Népszava, or I don't know where you got it from, or one of those lefty regular blogs, and that's where you read things about the law. It is difficult to argue with my socialist colleague Gyula Molnár because, on the one hand, I like the humor he said, and we have known each other for a long time, we have been in politics against each other for a long time, but overall, we can agree on a lot of things. Who was the other politician, MSZP politician, who had fallen out, I think is now obscured, with which he began his speech, as is an interesting one, let me say: it was appropriate for the subject that the opposition was not anti-vaccination. Well, thank you very much, congratulations, then, once again, please encourage everyone to go out, not to cheat on me, not to mess with this, because there are lives to be saved, and that is true, I think we agree on that. It is no longer true for the opposition as a whole. I also congratulate you on your shiny era, all XI. Circuit 15th district, all 15th district. Circuit. He stayed there to renovate or change after your mayorship, but I think that we are not discussing this right now, because everyone in the city has had a period of time and what he has done, what he has done, what he has provided, it has always been judged by the district voters; it has always been judged wrong and wrong and so and so. I'm sure you've had a lot of merit for the people who live there, but you're wrong, and I'd like to correct that now that, as you interpreted the right to choose the roads, you've misinterpreted it, so it's no one else. Although the municipalities have the right to designate it, it is a different issue, and obviously you, as former mayors of practice, I say more so, where appropriate, regional representatives, local representatives, who have encountered problems in everyday life that the municipality has designated a route in the settlement plan, and then they wanted to build a route in that area, or to change something, how much torture it took to get over it, because it was a regulation that made it almost impossible for them to do so. You know that. Now this regulation will also help the inhabitants, but, of course, it will also leave the possibility, and not only the possibility, that the regulated route will be correct, and that the goals that the city and the city's leaders have previously designated for the development of the settlement will continue to be implemented. So it is not in the best interest of the people who live there, and the interest of the whole settlement is not going against this change, so I would ask you very nicely to look at the interpretation once more, because it is not as you have interpreted it. That mass immigration is a rubber bone, so be it. We are not pro-mass immigration, but it is another question that, having indeed had to change dozens of laws, and I would also like to say this to my fellow Member Hajdu, it is indeed important to change a lot, but not because it is a law of a kind that has much to do with, but it is simply a matter of transferring a lot of tasks related to the use of words to other laws. By the way, why this question is in the law on mass immigration: simply because when that madness invaded Hungary in the summer of 2015, it had to be partly helped at the border, it had to be partly helped along the way. As head of the charity organization, I lived in the Charity Council and had to put down containers and place temporary buildings. They do not affect the city's image in the long run, and we all know that, and this question is nothing else. It is also important that the veto of the capital does not change in the law. I would like to point out that the districts must take account of the regulation in the capital as it has done so far. So, it's perfectly natural for the districts to have a perfectly legitimate pursuit. I am only telling you this because the districts of Budapest are largely run by opposition mayors, so, where appropriate, there will be a conflict between them, but this is the case now. So we know that in the allocation of resources, with a lot of things, we know that there are conflicts between district mayors and the capital. [[15.40]] This was the case in the Demszky era, and it was also during István Tarlós, and it is true now that there are different interests in the district sometimes, rather than the leadership itself in the capital. I would like to address Mr László Varju, a DK representative of the opposition, but he is not here. All I would like to say to him is disrespectful to Parliament, you said that I will never, by the way, take any advice from you about what is disrespectful, what is right, whether as a politician or as a man. You were involved in the raging of December 12, 2018 that happened here in Parliament, and anyone who behaves this way in Parliament should not want to lecture us out of conduct, disrespect, or anything else. Who's in a panic situation, I think he should think about that. I must say to this Member, László Varju, that he understood nothing of the law. He's talking about the economic chambers. Once again, I could tell him that if he were here that Ferenc Gyurcsány, your party leader, the leader of the allies, told the economic operators when he thought he could tell them that it was possible to leave this country. Compared to this, what you have done from an economic point of view, and what the opposition is doing now when you run a city or a settlement, thank you very much, but from an economic point of view we do not ask for advice. Municipal associations were addressed, and not only municipal associations, but also the profession itself. Hungarian Chamber of Architects, Hungarian Chamber of Architects, Association of Landscape Designers, National Association of County Local Governments, Association of Small Towns, Balaton Development Council, Hungarian Urbanist Society and their opinions have been incorporated and, where appropriate, changed to what has been submitted so that no one can say that we have not asked them. Dr. László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt LMP Group leader, I would like to report on the repression of the municipalities. I'm asking you to discuss this with your new friends and your coalition partners. Ask them why we had to consolidate the municipalities continuously in 2011-2013-2014-2015, why it was that when your government was, that is, the government of your new friends was MSZP, there was no DK, but SZDSZ, but we can talk about the same company, why they left the country in such a disastrous situation that they had to consolidate the municipalities with nearly HUF 1400 billion. Why was it that nearly 2,100 municipalities had to be consolidated? It's simply because they didn't give a damn about the municipalities. Because he didn't care about his friends, who are now friends of his, how the municipalities should be led. I can say the same about Budapest. Within this number, Budapest received HUF 270 billion in support. In addition, the districts of which one of the leaders was our socialist fellow Member and the other leader of our fellow Member in DK received a grant of HUF 106 billion because they had already accumulated a huge debt. Why did this happen anyway? Because the government you're about to cooperate with has bled out the municipalities. So please don't ask us to answer these questions, but rather your new friends. Let me refuse that nothing is happening in the area of monument protection. One is that this law doesn't say anything about it. The other is that I myself experience and know where you go to the country, but from you, from an ex-member in Pécs, or from a man who lives there, let me reject what has happened in Pécs, in order to protect the monuments exactly. In how many hundreds and thousands of small settlements the inner parts of the city have been renewed, where monuments have been saved from destruction. We saved nearly a hundred castles. In my field alone, nearly 3,000, most of the monument churches were renovated in ten years. So don't say we don't care about monuments, don't say we don't protect them. We saved exactly those monuments, which, by the way, have been condemned to total destruction by the former left-wing socialist-free democrat government and the previous socialist-regnition for many decades, and we have saved them. And it's a pleasure to go to Pécs last time we talked about it, it'll be a pleasure to go to Veszprém, by the way, the downtown of Siófok was beautiful, and I could tell you more. So if someone is taking this away from us, forgive me, I must say to all other claims that it is not true either, because it was not true, honourable Member. And what I would definitely like to say as a sequel about the concept, because everyone says that there is no concept, and the dates are so cruel to local governments that it cannot be accepted. Let me read it here and apologize to the stenographer lady. It'll be a little longer. Listen, please. A new local construction code should not be drawn up by municipalities which are subject to Article 314/2012. a government regulation has been developed only on the basis of the content requirements of the regulation, a concept of urban development, an integrated strategy for the development of settlements and means of settlement planning. They shall prepare their new urban development plan and their settlement plan by 30 June 2027 at the latest. In any case, the regulation should be reviewed. In this context, they can fit into the new regulations. If the plan needs to be amended in accordance with the previous Regulation by 2027, it is also possible to amend it. In order to prepare the urban planning plans for the district until 30 June 2027, the concept of urban development, strategy and settlement planning, prepared by 30 June 2021, in the capital city, may remain in force until 30 June 2025. The discount also applies to ongoing planning. If the municipality has started the preparation of the settlement planning concept, integrated settlement development strategy and settlement resolution instrument on the basis of the content requirements of the previous regulation until 30 January 2021 and at least the preliminary information phase has started, the procedure for the creation of a new concept, strategy and settlement resolution instruments shall be completed by a municipal decision until 30 June 2022. The concept, strategy and settlement planning instrument prepared until 30 June 2022 may remain in force until 30 June 2027. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I do not know what you are talking about, fellow Members, because it is clear. So it is quite clear that there is time for this, and you know very well that they were city leaders, as they have prepared such plans and concepts, so that they have been regularly modified, especially by the larger settlements, because it was in their interest that individual investments, I would add, should be made in the Rusden area, be made precisely so that the city wounds and settlements would disappear, or that the development opportunities of the inhabitants would be possible, and not only aimlessly changed, I think, either of you will make these plans, and no one here will force the municipalities to do so. I would like to point out that the hierarchy of the plans remains. No one's questioning that. That's necessary. Obviously, who is an engineer, or who is involved in this, knows that the plans are built on one another, it cannot be for the inferior, if you can say so override the others. So the hierarchic connection of the plans remains. To my fellow Member, Mr László Varga, who we have also been arguing with for a long time, and we disagree on many things, I continue to thank you for your style and thank you very much for what you have raised, but let me say a few things to you. Szeged, Salgótarján, cities with high county rights, cities with opposition rights, not only did they not miss out, but they also receive the support from the end of the year. [[15.50]] And yet again, let me tell you two numbers about the capital and, in general, business tax and tax revenues. And it would be good if, once again, the government was accused of bleeding out municipalities, otherwise unjustly and falsely, they compared how much you gave to the settlements, and now how much we leave in the settlements. Local and municipal taxes totalled 543 billion in 2010 and now increased to 1024 billion in 2019. That almost doubled, I can tell. Is that bleeding out? Well, I think we should think about that. And it is equally true, in the capital city, the trade tax now says the entire capital in 2010 was 236 billion, and now, in 2019 it reaches 380 billion forints. Is this the bleeding out of the capital? Is this the bleeding out of the metropolitan districts? In any case, there are a lot more trade taxes, and I have to say that in some ways it is understandable to the capital, but it is the capital of the nation. But there is much more in proportion to Miskolc or other cities and cities. So I think it is legitimate, by the way, to divide in a certain way in an equal direction. And there is also a question, Congressman, that on the one hand you are accusing us in this bill that we are only trying to favour investors in which we are sure that there is much truth, but on the other hand they are missing business tax revenue. So, on the one hand, there should be no development, on the other hand, a rust zone of a city, see how some districts of Budapest could change, and that they remained the same as they were 30-40-50-60 years ago, and on the other hand they miss business tax revenue. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, who are here now, from Jobbik to DK, please understand that the economic policy that you have been pursuing until 2010 has gone bankrupt, has caused this country to fail because you simply have not understood how to help businesses, how to help people, how much it is not to be set up for aid, but rather to build a work-based society, and you want to prevent it. They want to obstruct it through this law, and they want to prevent it through all other areas. Your Honor, Mr. Mayor. For Mr László Hajdu, Mayor of DK: the structure plan was not a law, it was not approved by the government, its content has now been included in the local construction regulations. So there's no change in that. What you said was wrong or wrong; I don't want to use any other words. Instead of a paper-based consultation, there will be digital consultation. It's better for everyone, it's a change, it's really, it's a lot of trouble making them, I believe. But thank God, as you said, the larger settlements have already digitally processed their plans, their concept, everything, and if these appear digitally, then, if appropriate, a family who wants to build, if appropriate, a village who wants to develop, where appropriate, a large city who is thinking about investment and waiting for investment, can provide for individual plans much faster than has been done so far. So, once again, there will be a change in this, that there will be no paper consultation. I would also like to ask you once again why it is wrong that rust zones in Budapest are affected by this legislation. What's wrong with that? When you think about it, it's XIII. our fellow Member, who is not here, who is here as the deputy mayor, who is here as a Member of Parliament, led by the district, by the way can you tell us that the XIII. in the district, what changes have been made, rust zones that have been renewed, that, where appropriate, priority areas have become in the residential environment, and that, where appropriate, areas involving the environment of factories or plants or office buildings have become. What's wrong with that? And what's wrong with landscape scars in other parts of the city, the capital, the horrors that have been there for decades now, changing them? I don't understand this thinking, I can't understand this thinking, that they don't want progress in a sense that's actually good for the people who live there, because it's better for businesses, because they have revenue, it's good for the settlement, so it's good for the capital, it's good for the district, because they're going to be business tax. And you are thinking and doing this, and I think that, in all respects, DK has actually said that it wants to restore thinking and mentality before 2010. I don't think anyone in Hungary would want that. I would like to thank you very much for the speeches, the pro-government ones, and I would also like to add opponents that help to better understand this law, but I cannot thank and accept those which make this law look completely different; the law that simplifies, which makes it easier for the municipalities, and within it, which, most importantly, creates a much better situation for the people living there, as well as for the businesses living there. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-17-1-118	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP group, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Our City, Pécs 44." Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-03-17-1-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Only a very quick reaction to the Secretary of State: In Pécs, in 2014 a debt of 44 billion was consolidated, in addition to a Fidesz city leadership, however, in 2019 the Fidesz city administration produced another HUF 20 billion debt under the Fidesz government. So that's all there is to remember reality. And then, on the subject of my speech after the agenda, I am usually talking about my narrower country after the agenda, the situation of Pécs, Baranya and the problems affecting the region. I would like to begin by thanking everyone in Pécs and Baranya for their work in preserving the whole of people's health and safety. What you can see is that the problem is great, and it is not quite the way government communication sets it up from the health system. A letter leaked yesterday, or a letter was sent to the press, from which it was read that the Coronavirus Hospital in Pécs was trying to recruit medical students for volunteer work, because there was a huge strain, and there was a huge problem. You can't get a lot more staff from the city clinics. So far, nine therapists and two doctors have been transferred to the Covid department, but according to the director general of the clinics, several specialists are no longer able to be transferred because the specialist clinics would be in danger. The Director-General of the Joint Health Institutions said that the situation is very bad, there is a need for many professionals, but it is already very, very difficult for them to make an extra person available to the institutions. Outpatient orders shall be continuously operational and the application points shall also be resolved. Therefore, I think that all thanks are due to doctors and health workers who stand up for people and work to save lives. I would ask everyone to take this situation seriously, very seriously, which has now emerged, and everyone to put it out, to take advantage of it, and, of course, to abide by the restrictions, and we expect the government to give health care workers every opportunity to do their job in this extremely, very, very difficult situation. And then moving on to another issue, which we also discussed here in plenary: the situation of the municipalities, the bled-out of the municipalities, and the brutal and harmful austerity policy that is being pursued everywhere in the country against the municipalities, but the opposition self-governments are typically affected by these government austerity measures. About a month ago, the Constitutional Court also stated that the Parliament's task was to provide the municipalities with proportionate resources in accordance with their powers and duties, so we can say that the Constitutional Court has also confirmed the concerns that we are expressing. Both Pécs and Baranya were severely affected by these brutal restrictions. If you look at the data from last year alone, only the withdrawal of motor vehicles meant 450 million losses for Pécs last year, 51 million for Komló, 27 million forints for Kozármisleny, and the other settlements suffered very serious losses. These must be compensated by the government. [[16.00]] The city of Pécs needs to be able to plan its budget now, in a situation where the government seems to carry out a replacement action, and in a process set up for negotiation it practically does not take local governments seriously, does not consider them as partners. So Pécs would need 5.7 billion forints as public compensation in order to balance its budget this year with increased tasks, so that the city has a huge role to play in the fight against the coronal virus epidemic. We therefore call on Members of Parliament, pro-government representatives and the government to really negotiate with the local authorities and to make immediate decisions to fully compensate for these brutal restrictions that have been enforced, as this is the only way for the municipalities to operate, so that they can maintain important public services such as drinking water or public transport, which are essential for all the municipalities of Pécs, Baranya. We find it quite shameful that Pécs and Baranya's pro-government parliamentary representatives, Péter Hoppál, Csaba Nagy, Erik Bánki and János Harghitai, assisted in these brutal restrictions, and now do not raise their voice in order to give the municipalities all the resources necessary to carry out their important tasks and to carry out the work of defence successfully. I can tell you that Pécs and Baranya deserve more. Members who believe that they belong to a faction, a prime minister or a party, even during such a serious epidemic, are not worthy of representing Pécs and Baranya as Members of Parliament. The people who live there will have the opportunity to change this situation next year. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2021-03-17-1-120	Thank you. Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting address with the title of our joint affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-17-1-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I feel a little or a little bit like the ancient Greek mythology of Laokoó in Dunaújváros. Who was Laokoon again? Laokoón was a Trojan priest who early warned the Trojans of the Greek danger. He drew attention to the fact that the Greeks cannot be trusted, and that if the Trojans do so, it will end in an ugly failure. In the meantime, he went to the Trojan horse himself as a warning of his spear, useless, for the Trojans did not listen to Laokoon. Troy failed. Why do we feel like Laokoon in Dunaújváros? 'Cause we're always warning you. Since September, the local government, the union, the management of the company, myself as a Member of Parliament, have been warning the government of the problems arising in the Iron Works. We spoke when the collective agreement was canceled in an unprecedented manner, thereby depriveing workers of benefits. We told you the first time the iron workers got paid in two installments, and this situation has been going on ever since. The local government has spoken in the form of an announcement, I have spoken here many times, within the walls of the Parliament, the union has spoken, the trade unions have indicated the problems, the management of the company has also indicated the problem, but so far you have forgiven me, a faint Facebook entry has been made by Péter Szijjártó foreign minister and foreign minister. There are rumors that you have done this because you are working behind the scenes, but as we hear this news, uncertainty in the iron workers is increasing. But it's not just the workers, it's the townspeople. We know what Ironworks means to us. If the factory lives, the city lives. If the factory is not alive, there will be a huge problem not only in Dunaújváros, but throughout the region. All these warnings, all these calls, despite all these requests, are still silent about the Ironworks. Once or twice, when they have to answer, they are forced to say that the government doesn't help Ironworks because it's a private company, and we don't have to help private companies. Ironworks is a private company, so help yourself. I do not want to say that in the last few months Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz from the tourism sector, which is their property, how many billion forints they received. I'll tell you about half of it, we could have solved the Ironworks situation. And these were all private companies, dear gentlemen. They're not public companies, they're private companies. In fact, I'll tell you, they don't employ as many people, they don't guarantee the livelihood of as many families as the Ironworks provide. For thousands and tens of thousands of families, the Ironworks provide a livelihood. Hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises are built on the Iron Works. And it doesn't even explain the fact that it's an old, crappy factory, there's no demand for its products. Iron products are soaring in Europe. They sell a lot of it at a very good rate, so it's not even an excuse to bury an old money grabber if they give money there. That's not true. Ironworks can be helped. And what do we see now? We are the few, the trade unions, the management of companies, the local government, the MPs, the loudest. And you, the majority, the two-thirds majority, are the quietest in this matter. Why is that, gentlemen? Wasn't the region's industry important to you? Don't you care about Fejér County's economy? Isn't Hungary's largest iron company important to you? Isn't it important to you that you work there? Is it the expertise of the professional and the staff there? We offered our help because we do not know party politics on this issue. Even the local Fidesz MEPs voted in favour of the proposal that we asked for help in. But you remain silent to this day. Please, gentlemen, let's do this together for the Ironworks. Don't make Ironworks your next Troy. Thank you for listening. I'll remain a servant of my district.
u2021-03-17-1-122	Thank you. After the agenda, MEP Lajos Korózs applied for a post-municipal speech. What does the government do to fight cancer? Who is responsible for preparing the domestic anticancer plan? It's an address. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-17-1-123	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear Minister, I would like to speak in this way after the agenda for cancer patients. It is well known, I think, in front of everyone, that cancer is there in Hungary in quotes, of course, in the forefront of cardiovascular disease, and unfortunately, there is an extremely high mortality rate in this area. Some 1.2 to 1.3 million people die each year in the European Union; unfortunately, Hungary is at the forefront in this area, as I mentioned. While, of course, we know that about 40 percent of the disease could be prevented, the European Commission has dealt with this issue in detail last year. When I first submitted it in the form of an interpellation, and now I have applied for a post-meeting speech, I have looked into the amount of money spent in the budget for health care development and disease prevention. Well, in the health budget, within the health budget, there's a total of three percent. I think it's a shame it's not enough! Returning to the European Commission's resolution, last year the European Commission adopted an anti-cancer plan, which is a political commitment, and asked Member States to prepare their own anticancer plan so that the European Commission could help Member States to do so, even through financial benefits; of course, in addition to the need for the profession to synchronize a lot of things. As I have studied this European document, for me, the most important effort by the European Commission has been crystallized at around five points. One was prevention, the other was early detection, the third was diagnosis, the fourth was treatment, and finally, as I perceived and appreciated, improving the quality of life of cancer patients and survivors. These are roughly the five areas in which the European Commission encourages Member States to draw up their own anticancer plan and bring it into line with this European anticancer plan. No matter how much I searched and looked, I couldn't find such an anticancer plan back home. [[16.10]] I could not find a strategy, a programme, or a plan that the European Commission could support. It is highly likely that the Commission will not be able to support it because only an existing and accepted programme can be available. I would like to ask Minister who is responsible for preparing the Hungarian anti-cancer plan. I would like to ask Minister when he will be presented to the general public, to involve civil society organisations in order to discuss this, to forward their opinions to the Ministry with a better intention and to harmonise this with the European Anti-cancer Plan. Why I spent my time listening to this topic, recently listening to the radio, I heard that a Hungarian company received a very special award, the future unicornisa, was awarded an award by a Hungarian company that developed a software where in seconds this intelligent knowledge would tell us which therapy is the most effective treatment or cure for cancer patients. I think that such knowledge is very much needed by both the European Union and Hungary. Lately, I'd like to use a fashionable slogan at the end of my speech: doesn't every life matter? I look forward to your reply, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-03-17-1-124	Thank you. János Bencsik applied for a post-meeting speech: a fair and predictable pension system instead of a 13th month pension! It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-03-17-1-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was the only Member of Parliament in this house who voted against the re-introduction of the 13th month's pension. I did it not because I was insensitive to the fate of our elderly countrymen, but because I respect them. I respect them enough to know that before the elections, this has given me political favor and can therefore be withdrawn at any time, and that at any time, as I have indicated, it can be withdrawn. Our elderly compatriots deserve a decent retirement pension, a pension that the political elite has repeatedly denied them for 30 years. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the end of last year, the government as the savior of our retired countrymen frozen the minimum pension of HUF 28 500 in a decree, while one third of our elderly countrymen live permanently below the poverty threshold. This has not only humiliated elderly people receiving retirement benefits, but has also humiliated hundreds of thousands of our compatriots who receive their salaries on the basis of minimum pensions. These are child-rearing benefits, employment replacement benefits, municipal subsidies, public health care, regular social care. All these benefits are not growing this year because the government has frozen them. But that's not the only reason I voted no. I also voted 'no' because finally someone in this country has to say that we've had enough pension dementia. The severe economic crisis caused by the epidemic is making life difficult for all of us, but in the most difficult situation, pensioners are not now. Each month, they receive the amount on their account or from the postman, which is often humiliatingly low, but still comes in a predictable way. There are hundreds of thousands of people in this country who have been unable to count on any revenue that has been planned for a year. For them, the concept of sure income has ceased. At last, these people would need substantial help with the good words and the late ones, in addition to the partial subsidies that arrive. But once this epidemiological situation is over, the question will remain with us, the tortured question, that the current Hungarian state will, before the elections, continue to dazzle pensioners who are undoubtedly well mobilized, representing a populous electoral camp, or will finally start to support those of active working age who, on the one hand, produce these pensions and who are otherwise looking for substantial help, so that they can finally climb up to the middle class or do not have to slide down there. Ladies and gentlemen, The pensioner-demagogy captured the Hungarian public speech decades ago and still holds the Hungarian public address. Sneaky, sneaky ways of turning successive generations against each other and digging deeper and deeper into social trenches. The Civic Response Movement is working to free our country from this shackle. Instead of a 13th-month pension, we recommend the following to our elderly countrymen, parents and grandparents: instead of a split-off pensioner society, the introduction of a Hungarian indexation, the essence of which is that instead of general inflation, pensioners' consumption and inflation following a real wage increase, i.e. the inflation of the pension basket and the rise in real wages, determine the rate of the increase in pensions. We also propose that the Hungarian State should encourage children not only with family tax incentives for children, but also pay a pension supplement for children who have been properly raised, honorfully trained and who have entered into work, which would be an important tribute to families who undertake and successfully meet the challenges of raising children, which are otherwise not limited to material sacrifice. Thirdly, it is recommended that, under certain conditions, the possibility of early retirement be made available to our fellow countrymen carrying out the most physically demanding work after 40 years worked. This is the civilian response to social demagogy and the barely concealed election vote purchase. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-17-1-126	Thank you. Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, notary of the National Assembly, applied for a post-scheduled speech with the title "Most of the Poor People in Somogy" Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-17-1-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In recent years, Hungary's Government has shared with us on several occasions that Hungary is strengthening, the performance of the Hungarian economy is on an upward path, and we have also heard that every year average earnings are increasing in Hungary. By the way, we are pleased to hear this, even if it is based on average data and obviously on calculations made by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. By the way, these calculations include a circle of people who, for the past ten years, have, what to say, ingested public wealth like a little ball. But those of you who are counting on me to continue my speech with a good slaughtering sledgehammer must be disappointed, not to talk about these new oligarchs, but about the poor people of Somogy. Those people, those retired, low-retirement grandparents, women raising their children alone, or unemployed men working for 54 thousand forints in public, whose purchase of firewood is a major problem at the end of winter. Here, in Budapest, you would not believe what a stepdad people live under in the 21st century. In the century. Therefore, because I know and walk among them every day, helping them with their problems, with the support of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, I offered to please those in need with the wood from my two-place, Somogyszentpál forest, and I asked them to share their message on my social side, and why they needed this help. If I may, fellow Members, I would like to read them now and quote them. Mary wrote that I was retired for the third year. Unfortunately, I have never been able to save the price of my winter firer from my pension. And Tibor said, "I'd like some wood, too." I work, I get 54 grand a month, but what's that enough for? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm [[16.20]] Elvira: I'm raising five underage children on my own. Right now, I'm on my way. I'd like to ask the congressman for his help. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Feri said: "I work at the office, I get 36 thousand forints a month, the rest will be taken by the executioner. I can't make a living on this, and I can't afford it on fire. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mónika wrote, "I came to you because I am working, but unfortunately I have to buy wood every month and a half, and then I miss paying my bills. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Robert: My wife and I are both unemployed at the moment. We have three children. We'd like to request wood. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Victoria: I raise my one-year-old daughter alone, and out of 37,000 you heard her well! I'm keeping us up. Unfortunately, my financial background doesn't ensure that I buy firewood. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Anastasia wrote: "Unfortunately we asked for help because of unexpected expenses. I have a seven-month-old daughter, we live with my mother-in-law, we live in a house, and we heat in four places. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, What I knew was that I helped my potential, but it would be good to get people here in Hungary and Somogyland, in the middle of Europe, to finally work in meaningful jobs, to earn decent wages for decent work, and to get a decent pension for our hard-working countrymen after a decent life. It would also be nice to see Hungarian reality here in Budapest not only on the basis of statistical data. That is why I ask for your help in creating prosperity and freedom for all Hungarians everywhere in the future, so let us fight and therefore work. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2021-03-17-1-128	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Meeting day's closed. At 6 p.m., we will continue our work with an extraordinary meeting.
