u2021-10-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I salute my fellow Members and all those who monitor our work. The 9th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the leadership of this meeting, András Aradszki and Csaba Gyure will be notaries of my assistance. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. Then, from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. for questions, and then from approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for instant questions and answers. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, spoke with the title "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, On Saturday was the 65th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, and, as usual, political actors said their speeches, as did the Prime Minister. Viktor Orbán's speech revealed one thing in addition to maniac and obsessive serialization and brizzling that Viktor Orbán is more important than 1956. Thus, the Prime Minister of Hungary's 2006 is more important, which is one of the darkest chapters of the spiritual civil war that he also started, than the glorious 1956 revolution and war of independence. However, it is more important for the Dialogue and today's opposition to remember 56. Just because it is slowly, but surely under the power of Viktor Orbán, the critics of the system can feel the same as in 1956. [[Márius Révész: Shame!]] How did the critics of the system feel, the opponents of 1956, who rebelled? [[Márius Révész: They were executed!]] They must have felt that the power was constantly monitoring and listening to them. Then the AVH, today there's enough software for that, Pegasus software. For the record, they lied to the law. At that time, the resistance felt that the state radio and newspapers were constantly lying and attacking them, discrediting them. Today's public television, radio and county newspapers run by Fidesz do nothing but take down opposition politicians. The Resistance 56 also found that they were rumbled about by the power to serve foreign interests, that they were Western imperialist agents. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] The people of present power simply replaced the word imperialist with Uncle Soros Gyuri. In 56 they lived in fear, who openly criticized the system, because they could easily be taken to the forced labor camp in Recsk. It's true, they're not taking you anywhere today, they're just not getting community service, or if they can't blackmail you with that, they're gonna get an official check, like a tax check, or they're gonna make it impossible, kick you out of work. I could say that the people of today's power don't go to Moscow every week, but unfortunately, it's similar to the 1950s, it's true, it's now happening with military luxury machines. No wonder, then, that the leader of Fidesz did not talk about 1956, Viktor Orbán's entire speech was that he was afraid of losing his power in a democratic election. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You just denied the last two minutes.]] This was also the case for its eleven-year governance, and most of the laws and government regulations are about how to gain more power to have more money to take more power from that money. Therefore, a deadly pandemic did not prevent some in Fidesz from getting rich and then buying Tihany of the extra profit of Chinese vaccines. [[What a load of bullshit!]] This has been the focus of attention, while waiting lists in health care are growing, while the numbers of cancers are drastically increasing as a result of the outbreaks. Instead of making education competitive, reforming skills and teamwork education, the government has spent the past period organizing universities to Fidesz foundations. Instead of social policy for those in need, there is 27 percent high VAT, over 500 HUF petrol prices, weak forints, and inflation is so high that an average person has to consider twice what he puts in his basket in the store. The main aim of the government in this situation is not to improve health, education or the economy, that is not what the Prime Minister said. On 23 October, the Prime Minister said that their main objective was to stop the LGBTQ propaganda. Well, congratulations. This is the musty air of the '50s. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] that builds its policy on devastating ideologies, and that's exactly what 65 years ago, right and whether you like it or not, people on the left wanted to stop and move on. They said that this was enough, and in 2022 the majority of Hungarian society will say that this is enough.
u2021-10-25-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond.
u2021-10-25-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, this weekend we celebrated the 65th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution, and we would like to thank the hundreds of thousands of people who remembered the heroes of the war of freedom with dignity, peace and dignity. Contrary to the 50th anniversary, the holiday was not characterized by tear gas and rubber bullets, but by elevated national flags, and that is a big difference. I would particularly like to thank the participants in the peace procession. Left-wing politicians and tellers insulted them with various signs, bus-magnified, travel agencies, wrestling them, despite which the peace procession participants gave a dignified answer. They've come from many places, but it connects them to love their country. This Saturday, they also gave a strong response to insults, violent left-wing politics and threats. They've given a powerful answer this weekend, and they're going to give a strong answer next spring, you can be sure of that. As far as violent policy is concerned, honourable Member, if you have a small arrival to pay attention to the answer, we do not threaten politicians who think differently with prison. [[Car Cake Olivio and Róbert Zsigó consult each other.]] Honourable Congressman, If you have a small arrival to answer, because you've been dissecting an important question; so we don't threaten politicians who think differently with prison. I'm not talking about our Prime Minister candidate and their new Prime Minister candidate, we're not talking about our Prime Minister candidate or our Prime Minister threatening us with a lamp iron. We don't meditate on what the lamp iron could be used for. [[11.20]] It wasn't me, honourable Member, but you who meditated on the fact that you couldn't condemn the fact that you had a physical impact on a public institution. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And as far as the public is concerned, it's not our party, it's not our party alliance, it's your party, it's your party, it's your party, it's your party, it's your party, it's your party, it's your party. [[Róbert Zsigo to Bence Tordai: It's a good thing you're listening to me like this.]] We're not the ones who threaten to ban journalists, we're your parties. It's pretty steep to claim violence after that. As they did after what they did in 2006 [[Bence of Turda: Who?]] ♪ You're ♪ [[Bence of Turdai: Me?]] And those to whom you personally joined will then be referred to as violence as the peak of hypocrisy. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why was there no accountability? I was there, you ran home!]] You may have mentioned that economic development is not important for the government. I am not going to go along with the fact that economic growth, re-starting, this rate is higher than in the European Union. But if I approach it from the measures, let me mention a few: a credit moratorium, a family tax refund, a minimum wage of 200,000, which will be three times the size of your time, the retirement of the 13th month's pension, a juvenile tax exemption in 25 years, an expansion of the home creation program. And then you come along and the left party leaders come along, and they say nothing's going to happen. At least don't fake it. There's an increase in the wages of cultural and social workers, a 72-percent raiser program, I'd say. And you say nothing at all. There's one more thing I'd like to discuss. We can see and hear it, we could hear it this weekend, as you vow to better control the country. On the one hand, we already have experience in this regard, and it is not exactly positive, and at that time I said it in the least possible. On the other hand, couldn't we start with, say, where you were assigned to work, doing this job? Their mayor and party president, Gergely Christmas, have been doing nothing but campaigning for months, and then quit because of the performance deficit. And then he tells me that he's bored, that Gergely Christmas is bored. Someone put half a billion dollars into his campaign, volunteered to help him with his work, and he tells me he's bored. I think even in your parties, it's gonna blow the whistle. Now I don't want to deal with the inner affairs of the left, but that tells me everything about the mayor, because being a politician is not the profession where the work ends where you get bored. And then we ask the question for a reason: do the things in the capital bore Mr. Mayor, they bore him too? Is there anything else besides Facebook hustle that motivates you at all? [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Everyone can see that there is work to be done in Budapest: public safety, public cleanliness and the organisation of transport, it would only be a job. I'm asking you to get started. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-25-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The energy crisis is a serious problem throughout the European Union, which has emerged. At the last Council meeting, the leaders of the European Union countries dealt with this, clearly, and so did the Hungarian Prime Minister. First, I would like to say what we agree with the Prime Minister on this issue. This is gonna be short. It is not for the public to pay for the increase in energy prices, but for the polluting companies that produce these fossil fuels. I would like to note here that you have been ruling for more than ten years, so far the polluting companies have been given tax relief, not punishment. The point is, however, that if we find out what caused this energy price crisis, we can decide together how to fight it. The claim that climate protection measures and different quota systems would have caused this energy price crisis is simply not true. Even according to the right-wing, i.e. the Polish ruling party's European Parliament faction, only 20% of climate protection targets and the quota system cause this increase, not 80%. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Is that okay?]] It is the cause of this pricing, and let us be honest that there is no real market for different fossil energy sources, because this is not really regulated only by demand and supply, but by the issuing countries and large companies, and there is fictitious pricing. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What has the Union done to this end? What?]] It's not a real market, it's something you said before, but it's a fictitious, cartel pricing. These cartels need to be destroyed and stopped from fossil energy, because otherwise, we won't be able to cut energy. If you look at what Vladimir Putin said today, what happens in Moldova, where gas is not allowed on a geopolitical basis, you will see that fossil energy producing countries use pricing as a geopolitical weapon here, and on the other hand, we can only demonstrate real national self-determination in energy prices if we come off fossil energy. This is not only a green issue, but also because Hungary is facing a serious, life-threatening crisis if we do not manage to reduce global warming to less than 2 degrees in the next period, but this is a national issue of independence, because as long as we depend on foreign countries in the field of energy, we cannot have real sovereignty. I would now like to turn to the fact that even Christian Democrat politicians are here, that I do not know, do you remember that before the coronal virus epidemic, the Prime Minister came up with a green policy, announced such a climate protection action plan, and the Christian Democratic People's Party joined the Plastic-Free July in August, with a very good sense of pace. When they took this so-called green political turn, Covid came after him. Clearly, people's lives and the economy were the most important then, and we understand that. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Thank you for understanding. It's ridiculous.]] But when it comes to green policy, every concrete act of the Prime Minister was about how to veto stricter climate targets in the interests of car manufacturers and the energy lobby. Peter Szijjártó was such an idiot that he said that. He said that the interest of the German automotive industry will always be more important than the need for more stringent climate targets. Therefore, following Prime Minister's instructions, we do not look at what you say, but what you do: not only are you green, but you are opposed to all green efforts and politics against all green efforts, everything. In fact, it's the things you do in environmental policy, or the things you can somehow make money with, or the things you have to do because it's the international pressure. You do not perform green policy on your own. And here's another thing about the energy price we're talking about. I'm assuming that when the battery panel series is over, and in response, they'll say that Paks II might not fit in the five minutes, we'll see, but if they say that Paks II.: Paks II. It is based on Russian technology, fuel from Russia and then on the transport of waste to Russia. It is not intended to increase national sovereignty, and it is also an extremely unfavourable credit facility, which we do not know what the terms of its termination are. Overall, it would therefore be important both for national independence and for climate change to switch to green energy. And I would like to say that before you tell me that wind energy is not good, I have done geography, so I know that there are mountains around Hungary, and I am aware of that, but I would also like to say that the fact that there is greater wind energy capacity in Serbia is because you have banned it because you cannot tell me how you can make money from it, and you have said it in a closed circle that you find it ugly. The situation is simple: you are enemies of climate protection. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-10-25-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ungár. State Secretary Tamás Schanda will speak on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[11.30]]
u2021-10-25-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, he brought an important question to Parliament when he spoke about energy prices, overhead issues and climate protection in his speech before the agenda. Mr. Congressman, there have been serious mistakes in everything you've said. Allow me, therefore, to argue with you and to draw your attention to all the mistakes that we have had to listen to over the past few minutes. On the one hand, you know perfectly well, the facts are quite clear that Brussels intends to tax families, all families with homes, houses or cars, with a complex new system. Mr President, the fact is that Brussels wants to raise a tax. We are well aware that, on the basis of climate protection, it would like to achieve these goals by increasing energy prices. It wants to impose new taxes, raise taxes, and we will reject this and reject it, because we will continue to protect the results of the reduction of the rent. It is also clear that Brussels is pursuing a completely unthinkable energy policy, an energy policy that will destroy the European middle class, which will make European competitiveness completely impossible. They raise the energy prices, and the solutions they put on the table would only cause a new increase in energy prices. It is no coincidence that electricity and gas prices are skyrocketing across Europe. Honourable Congressman, Europe is therefore confronted with high overhead costs and high energy prices. The price of natural gas, be clear, has increased by 400 percent compared to a year ago, and the price of electricity has almost doubled. This means that there has been an increase in overhead prices across Europe outside Hungary. However, not in Hungary, because thanks to the results of the reduction of the rent, we can continue to provide cheap electricity and cheap gas prices for the Hungarian population. Congressman, if you're serious about energy sovereignty and you're serious about climate protection, then it's time to stand up in your group and stand up for the Paks II investment. The time has come for this, honourable Member, because you know it, and the professionals know it, and the experts of the European Commission have told them exactly, and they will listen to it, honourable Member, and they have said quite precisely that without nuclear power it is not possible to make an energy policy that adequately protects the climate of Europe and the world. But, honourable Member, allow me also to point out that it is false when you accuse us of not doing everything we can in relation to climate protection. You have had the opportunity here in Parliament several times to say not only words, not just new phrases, but, as you usually say, to show with the very essence that you really mean this subject. But what happened? What happened was that he did not attend the political debate day, when he had the opportunity, he did not vote for Hungary to become a climate neutral country by 2050. You voted against any amendment of the law that contributes to the preservation of our environmental heritage in the Parliament. Congressman, the same is happening in your capital. Allow me just one example: as long as the mayor wants to make himself green, he doesn't put out new waste bins while he's talking about it, he's taking out public dumpsters. He's disarming him! Your Green Mayor. Congressman, this is quite shameful. And what else are you doing with him? He's going to put an end to the 154-year-old Main Garden. This is the work of the Green Mayor, whom you are so supportive and so fond of. Honourable Congressman, Let it be clear that we're actually doing it while you're just talking about it. In addition, we will stick to the right energy policy, we will stick to the results of the reduction of the rent, and we will stand by the fact that the Hungarian people are not paying the costs of climate change, but the polluting companies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-10-25-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Divide et impera, divide and conquer! The Roman Empire used it to preserve the rule over provinces, with which it won at least as many victories as it did with its legendary legions. The point is that it favours certain groups of the population living in the province, so that other social groups, driven by their envy, cannot live in peace with the beneficiaries, so that they cannot act together against the invaders. Unfortunately, the current governing parties have mastered and applied this method well. The most spectacular is perhaps the translation of the active and pensioners against each other, which was used to eliminate the Swiss indexation from 2012. They claimed that, at least every year, pensions are maintained at the rate of inflation. This is true, of course, but between 2002 and 2010, on average, purchasing values increased 1.5 times as fast as between 2010 and 2020 and pensions have become more and more deprived of earnings. In 2015, the average pension exceeded two thirds of the average net earnings, but last year it did not reach half. By eliminating the Swiss indexation, some HUF 1.5 million was drawn from the average pensioner's pocket in eight years. For this loss, the opposition's joint programme, the Swiss indexation, proposes a correction, and DK also proposes an irresistible and immediate compensation of HUF 150,000 after the change of government. They also confronted the poor with the better way. Nowhere in the free world will a single-key tax system be implemented in its pure form. [[Intercoms on the pro-government side.]] There is a zero or a beneficiary key everywhere for the poorest, for those who earn the least, so that at least a little of the common burden can be cut off. Honourable Congressman, I know you're happy to use the method of yelling at Lőrinc Nacsa, but I think you'll be able to take the floor in this debate. So, the family allowance hasn't increased in 11 years, and it's also hit people I've just told you about when we can't talk about a beneficiary tax rate. Family tax incentives are most beneficial to those with higher incomes, so they can make up for their lack of family benefits. At the same time, those who earn the least in this society are in vain for grabbing. It is also about the sharing of society that the law that lied to child protection aims exclusively to incite hatred against the domestic gay community and to restrict the knowledge of younger generations. The Prime Minister's speech at the peace procession is also about sharing. A country whose citizens cannot live in peace with one another will never be able to fight for social coherence, nor will it be possible for this nation to rise together. I am aware that there is no society where there are no social tensions and social differences, but it is the duty of the governments at hand to try to smooth them out, not to whip them up. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The fact is that the social groups that have now found themselves in a privileged social situation, and probably expect a large number of votes from them in the spring election next year, are constantly struggling to live their lives. They also feel what has been in the air for more than a decade in this society; indeed, much longer, as this is the intention of creating tension and bringing together social groups did not start in 2010, but when in 2002 Viktor Orbán said that the country could not be in opposition. I know that the government is now threatening these beneficiaries by losing either family tax incentives or other tax incentives in the event of a change of government, but that's not true. We have said much more than what the current government offers. We say that those who are most in need have the right to share in common, too, they have the right to benefit from the benefits of the middle class and the upper middle class at the moment. [[11.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, Sharing society involves destruction in the short and long term. Every four years, we are assigned to serve this society, you and we here in the benches of the opposition. I am confident that next year, this country will be run by a democratic government that doesn't just lead the ministry. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] But he also calls peace-building as a task. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I will! Márius Révész: With Gyurgy, huh?]] Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's why you're running around, isn't it? This is peace!]]
u2021-10-25-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. [[The president's ringing again.]] Patience, please. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Róbert Zsigó.
u2021-10-25-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm sorry to tell you this, but you have the wrong address for the sentences you said here. You are sitting in the party and faction of Ferenc Gyurcsány, conspiring with those who took away the 13th month pension from pensioners before 2010. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Retirement instead of a visitation fee!]] In 2009, it was submitted to Parliament overnight, when there was a crisis and a vote took away the 13th month's pension. Moreover, when you were in government between 2002 and 2010, the purchasing value of pensions decreased steadily. You are telling us now that we are confronting the poor, you are telling us now that we are confronting the actives with the pensioners, when you have raised energy prices fifteen times between 2002 and 2010, three times the price of gas, double the price of electricity, when, in the period after 2002, the tax allowance for families was abolished, when the support for home creation was abolished, by which you chased families into the currency trap, you now stand up in Parliament on 25 October 2021, and you accuse us that we are taking anything from anyone, and that we are confronting anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are also working on the crisis caused by the Crown Virus to return to pensioners the 13th month's pension that you and your fellow party have taken. If we succeed, we will fight for it, then next February we want to be able to give it back. We have entered into an agreement with the pensioners, honourable Member, when we came to government, that while we are in government, the purchasing value of pensions will not decrease. I respectfully inform you, because you may be getting your information from a bad place: in recent years, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10 percent, and we have also been able to pay the pensioners HUF 220 billion extra in recent years. This is not our merit, the whole country's merit, that the economy was able to perform so well that we were able to help the elderly in Elizabeth's voucher, in a certificate. And, honourable Member, in November this year we will give pensioners the largest pension premium of all time, a single HUF 80,000, even though there were 436 thousand people who would not have legally reached this amount, we will give them 80,000 forints. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We've been working since 2010 to strengthen families. We brought back the family tax relief, which, by the way, is available to nearly a million families. The government's goal is to make it easier to have children, to raise children, to start a family, and to create a home in Hungary today. From 1 January 2021 we launched the largest, widest home creation programme of all time. But we are working on, once again, in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, that next year, parents raising children will get their personal income tax paid back in 2021. And you stand up in Parliament and say that we confront the poor with the rich, the elderly with the active? What are you talking about, Congresswoman? You, once again, have put your speech in the wrong place. I would like to ask that if you have the opportunity to say this to Ferenc Gyurcsány or to the entire left, please remind them what they did to people before 2010 and mention at least some of the results that have happened since 2010, which is exactly the opposite of what you are doing! Since we are here after October 23rd, so much is allowed, this Saturday a peaceful, dignified crowd remembered on October 23rd. You, who accuse us of taking anything from pensioners, attacked your own people. Shame on you! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-12	Thank you very much, Mr Róbert Zsigo. Sándor Szabó, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In practice, since 2010, local governments have been decommissioned, local government rights have been undermined, and the financial situation in the municipalities has been changed, which makes them completely impossible. This process seems to continue next year, as it is already a clear fact in government circles that HUF 150 billion will be taken from municipalities again. Sixty percent of the vehicle tax was first taken in 2012, and then 40 percent of the vehicle tax was taken, citing the epidemic situation last year. This meant 35 billion to the settlements, which is painful because it was the only income of many municipalities, which they could make in addition to any kind of operation, possibly in connection with some scope of movement, and it mainly affected small settlements. In 2017, when the solidarity contribution was introduced, it was introduced under the heading that it would help the municipalities. In 2020, this amount was 40 billion, this year 160 billion will be taken from the settlements, just because the tax power per capita has been drastically delivered to the limit of 22 thousand forints per capita. Here was the support of local community transport. As a budget item, we are talking about HUF 2 billion, which represents the support of rural community transport;, only 3 billion were spent in the Groupama Arena, just to compare the items. At the same time, this HUF 2 billion would have helped and supported the transport of nearly one million people; in the case of Szeged, HUF 328 million was lost. There was also an increase in taxes on public utility lines. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you introduced this tax in 2013, you taxed the utilities, and then you started to increase it by a multiplier in 2020. By the way, withdrawal will, of course, primarily affect larger settlements, which may be several times more so far. Here is the waiver of half of the local business tax, which, under a government decree, also on the basis of the epidemic situation, in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, could be up to 1 percent of the turnover instead of 2 percent so far. To avoid misunderstandings: we are not against small and medium-sized enterprises, and we have even said from the very first moment that they should be supported by government instruments. But don't do it on the council's account, at the expense of the municipality. Both sectors are in a difficult situation, both municipalities and small and medium-sized enterprises must be supported. By the way, the MSZP had its proposal, last week it was voted off in the Economic Committee on the increase in the minimum wage, where we would have been able to raise wages to a significant extent up to HUF 321 thousand gross, and we could have made minimum wages tax-free, and this would not have caused any burden for small and medium-sized enterprises or municipalities. Now there is another item on the local business tax, now not on the epidemic situation, but on the grounds of raising the minimum wage for small and medium-sized enterprises, they are trying to put the municipalities in a difficult position again. Indeed, in the municipal sector, the change of government was ripe. We will initiate the discussion of the new municipal law after the 2022 elections, as the excessive centralization created in. 10 has made villages, cities and counties completely vulnerable. The converted local business tax must be the local government's own income, the motor vehicle tax and even a significant part of the excise duty must be returned, so that the municipalities can repair their unblessed roads. We will propose to eliminate the extremely unfair utility tax, and we will also eliminate the solidarity contribution, which, by the way, only resembles or has anything to do with solidarity in his name. Cities will continue to have an important task of organising local community transport, and municipalities and small towns will be able to get back all the tasks they have unduly nationalised so that they can do their job on their own. [[11.50]] Because we do believe that decisions should be made where the necessary information is not only available and local needs can be assessed, but local communities also have the opportunity to enforce their will. After a change of government, we will also drastically transform the municipal sector. Thank you.
u2021-10-25-14	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will respond on behalf of the government.
u2021-10-25-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You're threatening the municipalities here. You are threatening it, because you have been ruling in this country, and perhaps you were sitting in this House when the State Audit Office confronted the government in 2008 with the withdrawal of nearly HUF 2000 billion from the municipal system in the six years that passed. This HUF 2000 billion, which you withdrew from the municipal system at the time, was partly replaced by a loss of assets by the municipalities, and partly by borrowing. It was you who constantly burdened the municipal budgets, the lack of public finances, which, by the way, we know very well that you were able to escape to record heights trying to reduce by leaving a significant part of the tasks to local governments, without resources, to the municipalities. To remember only the very beginning, when you so gloriously announced the 50 percent educator's wage increase, it was granted for the three months, from September to November, in which year it was announced, and then abandoned the municipalities. You, honourable Member, have sent the local governments that, by 2009-2010, the local authorities have practically reached the limit of inability to pay. Honourable Congressman, The county authorities were deprived of their tax revenues by one pen stroke, when they knew very well that their remaining state aid was not enough to pay their wages to the employees of the municipal office, so the county authorities were also forced into borrowing. Don't threaten the local governments by saying that if you come back, you'll do whatever it takes to get out of this. Recall the Minister, who campaigned at her own group meeting to know what needs to be done, to know who needs to be put in the development councils, so that for the municipalities, which were essentially Fidesz-KDNP majority electoral success in 2006, you will change the allocation of EU funds and then show that only the association of left-wing local governments, which you were in a hurry, will receive the subsidies. You, Congressman, if you look around after 2010, you will see that all these distortions, all these distortions, have been eliminated. We have repaid and taken over the total debt of the municipalities, regardless of the colour of the municipality's management, as the municipalities have been serving the welfare of Hungarian citizens, and we have been helping them since 2010. We've taken over the entire debt. Honourable Congressman, Are you talking about taking away the local business tax? We did not withdraw the local business tax from the municipalities. We left 150 billion forints with entrepreneurs, and the Hungarian government provided the vast majority of municipalities, all the municipalities that really did not have the opportunity to survive this one-year tax hijacking from the industrial tax increase that had been published in previous periods and to support local businesses, which was provided by the government. All municipalities under 25,000 inhabitants in which this aid, this 1 percent tax reduction, has been published, have received its full support. The county-righted cities and metropolitan cities were also supported, with greater support from the left-wing authorities than the pro-government authorities. 27 municipalities received support from 13 opposition leaders out of 27 cities, and it can be said that opposition leaders have received 11.4 billion additional resources, while government parties have received HUF 11.3 billion in additional funding. When you talk about the withdrawal of business tax, you should also take into account and understand that in the last six years, over the last six years, business tax revenues have increased by more than 50 percent in the municipalities, and all this has been done by the performance of the economy, by the work of the people working here. Therefore, the financial situation of the municipalities did not deteriorate as before. You're worried about small settlements, leaving the business tax behind, of course. You are talking about the fact that we have introduced the solidarity contribution, but you are not talking about the fact that before the solidarity contribution, the local authorities received normative measures reduced by the calculation of the tax power, and the municipalities that later converted, we have switched to the payment of the solidarity contribution, the state has taken away less than you did before. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-16	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, also spoke before the agenda titled "Star War." You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There has never been a dispute between us that tourism is one of the leading sectors of the Hungarian economy. During the coronal virus epidemic, it was seen to be one of the most vulnerable sectors, with up to 11 percent of GDP produced by the sector during the epidemic. However, they had to struggle very, very much to survive, to say the goal was to stay on their feet. The reserves were also expended by accommodation providers. Of course, I do not want to talk about the hotel operators near the government, the oligarchs to whom the government's rescue package of course has arrived. Well, that's why in the middle of the epidemic, for example, Hunguest Hotels received tens of billions of HUF support just so that the hotel cartel could expand its hotel portfolio further. They were saved. However, what happened to the smallest, the private accommodation providers who were left alone to deal with the epidemic? Because they, let's face it, small, have a few rooms, up to 8 rooms, 16 beds, that's one of the key words of the private accommodation. They dealt with room expenses for income and pension supplements, and they have to admit, they have been most affected by the epidemic and the decline in tourism over the past year and a half. You didn't give them any support. It is no coincidence that by opening the Kisfaludy program, crowds came up for the renovation amounts, which is very right, but it must be acknowledged that there is another side to the coin, because the Hungarian Tourism Agency, when the winning list is reviewed by the person, has been a crowd of government-wide winners in the tender systems, according to the usual method, on the list of private accommodations won in the Kisfaludy program. We're used to that. It's your policy. One of the first tasks of the new National Unity Government next spring will be to review the tender system, as this will really reboot the economy so that you do not receive the funding from your beneficiaries. Private accommodation taxes are at risk of survival, as illegal room rentals in apartment houses appear to flourish in Hungary today, and they are also at a competitive disadvantage against room publishers in apartment houses, as there are administrative burdens on private accommodation providers such as the largest hotels. Even when the NTAK system was introduced, more people thought that this activity would be completed, but this new accommodation certification, which will be waiting for them until 1 January 2023, will really put the gate at most private accommodation providers, because they have defined 107 criteria that will be fulfilled on their own initiative, especially now that their revenues will fall drastically in the epidemic situation, they will not be able to meet. For example, I'd like to pick one out of 107. In the Kisfaludy contest, he renovated his room, bought the new mattresses, 12 centimeters, and in this categorization, to reach a star, the private accommodation provider needs a 13 centimeter sponge, a mattress. [[12.00]] With these categories of stars reaching these private accommodations, let's face it, I can't do it on my own. However, they are an important section of the tourism sector, a tourist offer that families, small earners, can pay better than hotel care. So the question arises: what do you wish to do, to help private accommodation providers, so that by 1 January 2023 everyone can meet at least the minimum requirement of 107, or lock on the door of private accommodation providers? There is also another question, rightly speaking: what is the real goal? Is it also possible to absorb small slices of private accommodation in the tourism sector? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-25-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2021-10-25-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We may agree on one thing, namely that tourism is a strategic sector, so much so that it gave 13 percent of GDP in 2019 and gave work to no less than 450 thousand Hungarians. When you say that the government has not given any support, we are once again in the position that this statement does not stand the test of reality, it has provided HUF 800 billion in support to this troubled sector, because we know that tourism is one of the sectors most exposed to the consequences of the epidemic. Just to mention a few things you say nothing: tax and contribution allowances, sectoral wage subsidies, 80% compensation for accommodations after cancellations. I remember your fellow Members here also denied that there were any reservations. But they got a refund; preferential loan arrangements. The credit moratorium has also helped them, not to mention that in many cases the government has made arrangements to abolish rent or terrace fees. As far as the new rating system is concerned, it is worth explaining what the purpose of this is. So you're in an opaque relationship. Its aim is to eliminate practices that have led to consumers being misled so far. It wasn't the majority, but there were still such exercises. The goal is to give every tourist from Hungary and abroad a real picture of the offer of accommodation in Hungary. This increases the safety, comfort, confidence in accommodations, otherwise it can generate traffic growth and contribute to the rapid recovery of the sector. Let me just add quietly that there is similar practice in other countries. The rating system should be introduced gradually over several years, there is also preparation time, and accommodation providers will have to obtain this rating every three years. As far as targeted subsidies are concerned, as I understand it, you deny, as far as private accommodation is concerned, that you have received one million HUF per room. Do you know how many of these private accommodations have been supported in the last few months, and you're saying nothing? [[Anita Kőrösi: I won't deny it! Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about? Watch it some other time.]] 14,000, Congresswoman. That's what you deny. I'm not talking about 600 pensions being renewed. And let me mention one more thing. He went flying in summer to free the beaches. The government has renovated as many beaches among them this summer and last summer as no government has ever renovated before. Only 45 free beaches on the shore of Lake Balaton were renovated [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: And how many have you taken? How many Communists did you take?]] And at national level, 150. And you'll have the plane tow the beach free. By looking at the length of the shores, two thirds of them are free beaches at Lake Balaton. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: And what is there where the construction site is described...]] So I'm asking you to stop the fake news campaign in the field of tourism. As far as results and re-starting are concerned, we see that domestic tourism is increasingly reaching previous levels, so much so that domestic tourism has closed the most successful summer of all time in the countryside, the traffic of hospitality has exceeded the pre-poverty level. To support this with numbers, because it is appropriate to prove: this summer 14.9 million guest nights were registered, which is 25 percent more than last year. If what you're saying was true, it wouldn't be like that. According to registered data, in June 66, July 22, August 16 percent more guest nights were reported. This is where the little quarters are included. This means that the revenues of the accommodations in the three summer months were 183 billion HUF, which is 41 percent more than in the summer of 2020. As for the autumn season, if we look at how the bookings are now, I can tell you that according to the mid-September data, about 5 million guest nights were booked for the months of September and October. And then the Jobbik comes along and says there's no reboot. I can't decide right now, it's just that you didn't look at the basic numbers, or you know very well, because you live in Siófok, as I understand it, and you know what's going on, you're misleading the voters and the Hungarians and the public in Parliament, but I'm asking you not to. Don't be critical of how much you love or dislike the government or what your goals are next spring. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] what is in the interest of domestic tourism. One thing is certain: domestic tourism providers can still count on the government's support. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Glory to the heroes! István Simicskó, leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, applied to the speech with a title before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-21	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Gloria 56! In this way, they paid their respects to 56 in the West, when they met a Hungarian at the time. This expresses many things, since it is difficult to earn respect, especially at this level. Why did our ancestors deserve all this? Obviously, we all know that within the Soviet interest zone, Hungarians were the first to say that there was enough of that alien system, that there was enough of that repressive system, and they dared to stand out with incredible courage and express their views and views, which, of course, was followed by violent retaliation. Two thousand Soviet tanks arrived in the country, the T34s in the final, along with the five divisions already here, a further 12 divisions, and the then Commander-in-Chief of the Warsaw Treaty, Marshal Konyev himself, was assigned by the Soviet Union to settle this uprising, so to speak, this freedom struggle. All we can say about Marshal Konyev is that he was not just anyone, because as a general he had already taken part in World War II, because he took back Kiev, Harkov, Odessa, and even freed Krakow and Prague from the German occupation. In fact, he came to Berlin with his troops before Zhukov, only Zhukov was comrade Stalin's favorite. So not just anyone was sent to crush and drown the Hungarian freedom fight, and unfortunately he did all this. Cicero, however, we know that history is the master of life, historia est magistra vitae, but at the same time we also need to know that during the period of ancient Greeks Herodotus, who was the greatest historian of Greek-Persian wars, did not only say that history is a process of development, but also warns everyone to have the idea that history can be a cycle, so that the past can come back and bring it back to others. Therefore, we must also remember and commemorate the revolution and the fight for freedom 65 years ago, and remember the police brutality of 15 years ago, which many of us have experienced during the period of the Gyurcsány government. Right behind me in the House is Márius Révész, who was beaten up by police; we remember that people had their eyes blown out with rubber bullets, and they threw tear gas grenades among people. So it was an unworthy retaliation against the peaceful celebrating community, the nation. So this warns us not to go back to the past. It is important that, in connection with the peace procession, we could see how many of us went, how many of us were there, and we were able to commemorate the heroes of 56 in a worthy manner. [[12.10]] That is one way to celebrate and even celebrate, especially on our national holidays, fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the history of the Hungarian state's existence for about a thousand years, we can see that the first 500 years were about fine with a strong Kingdom of Hungary, even at European level, and we defended Europe against other dangers. The second 500 years, so to speak, the second half, are much more controversial. We can see that Ottoman-Turkish occupation, then Habsburg domination, then Soviet occupation, and this warns us that our freedom is a great asset, our national independence is a great asset. Losing it is very easy, getting it back was very, very difficult, a lot of freedom fighting, a lot of sacrifices. And let us not, as the heirs of 56, take away our freedom, our independence, let us not allow bureaucrats from Brussels to control Hungary, and let us not believe those left-wing politicians who, by the way, promise freedom, but in the meantime, visit a European united states, which is a vital and crucial issue for national survival. We, Christian Democrats, continue to stand for a strong Hungary based on national Christian commitment, with a high value, a strong country, which, of course, cooperates with many countries of the world on the basis of mutual respect and respect. If this has been won by our predecessors in '56, let us keep this heritage, keep our independence and freedom. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-22	Thank you, Mr. István Simicskó Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész will respond to what has been said.
u2021-10-25-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, the celebration of 1956 may be closest to our hearts between the holidays, also because it was relatively close, because we knew many who lived and survived, they are still among us, thank God, freedom fighters and heroes, and of course there are some of us who were part of the beating on the other side. But what is worth saying is that some of the Communists, some of them of course, tried to be better at least in those two weeks, to change a little, to side with the period that was uplifting for the nation. True, the hard core, led by the Kádárs, called the Soviets in, and there was no question that David could not win this battle against Goliath at that time, in an unequal battle. 31 years ago, we believed that a change of regime would begin, and then democratic changes would be understood by parties and party leaders. We thought that we could indeed leave behind a four to four and a half decades, one of the most shameful periods in Hungarian history, if not the most shameful period, which even left-wing politicians understood. At one time it seemed that this could not continue, the past, as they always say, should be completely closed, should be abolished. But we can see that this did not happen, because on the 50th anniversary he woke up to Gyurcsány terror, and not only did the country wake up, but he lived it in 2006. By the way, few people remember that they began the celebration by inviting Western European leaders here, inviting state presidents, prime ministers, and receiving them here in Parliament. The Kossuth Square was surrounded by trams so that no one could protest them at that time because of the autumn speech. Then their celebration continued by saying good-bye to the presidents of the state, saying good-bye to the prime ministers, and then shooting, beating, and abducting people. Well, that's how they celebrated, the ones we thought would change their lives and their opinions about the previous decades. And they said the same sentence how freudian, maybe that's one way to say that we lied in the morning, night and night. Let's just say Ferenc Gyurcsány couldn't even keep the order: we lied in the morning, night and night, didn't he? When we look back at why it happened and what happened to the Rákosi era, it was simply that it was also a disaster economically and that it was a disaster for democracy as well. The same happened now, 15 years ago, what Ferenc Gyurcsány and his government did during their Prime Ministership with the punch. It brought a disastrous economic situation to the country, and then it proved its position in relation to democracy: it fired eyes, kidnapped young people and hundreds, and destroyed the lives of thousands and thousands. Moreover, cynicism continued later when the name Democratic Coalition was adopted, so such a party takes on the name of democracy, who are completely anti-democracy. And let's watch the weekend. At the 65th anniversary, the right side, the national side peacefully, we celebrated hundreds of thousands of people, and not only here, here in the city centre, but across the country and all over, I say, where Hungarians lived, in the South and elsewhere, in Transcarpathian, Upperlands and many places. On the other hand, what did they do? Together with Ferenc Gyurcsány, they celebrated together, and now they did not apologize for the terror of 15 years ago. According to the left-wing news portals, people could have actually been invited to the podium to introduce themselves by name, so few of them were around a few thousand, and I have to say that they continued lying here as well. Black Győr lied to the crowd, to the two thousand people that there are so many of us that we have reached the Kodály circle. Wow, that's great. They lie in the morning, night and night, they continue. And what characterizes them shows them that there weren't any national flags. On the national holiday, a piece of national flag was not taken with them, but we congratulate you on celebrating with your autumn bush! And all the other left-wing flags were there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's how they celebrate. It's different, and people see it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-24	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Mr Márius Révész, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-25	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, After the Second World War in Hungary, the Communists, relying on Soviet troops, quickly eliminated primitive democracy. In 1947, hundreds of thousands were excluded from the elections, but even with a huge blue tag election scam, they couldn't get a majority. You've been blackmailing parties, don't you? Ministers were taken away, people killed, beaten, imprisoned, and successfully taken over by 1948. In the '50s, only five thousand families were deployed from Budapest, whose belongings were distributed by Communist collaborators on behalf of the people. That's how the tiny family got the villa in Vállőhegy, while the apartment of my grandparents in Kőbánya was nationalized. Farmers were declared kulaks, took their land, swept down their attics, nationalized the factories and destroyed them. Poverty and dissatisfaction have increased. On October 23, 1956, a peaceful parade began on Kossuth Square, where a crowd of 200,000 gathered. One people said it was enough and they demanded changes. Two days later in Kossuth Square, 61 people died and 300 more were wounded. However, the protesters did not allow themselves to be intimidated. Armed resistance groups formed, stood up for their freedom and won. That's why the Soviet army started calling the Communist Party, which eliminated the resistance in a week. After that, 400 people were executed, 200,000 people fled Hungary, and the revolution had to be called counter-revolution. However, the Hungarian people have not forgotten, our democracy is rooted in October 1956. Thanks to the heroes. In 1990, we chose a government that immediately started negotiations on the withdrawal of Russian troops and democracy started to work. In 2002, however, with a 23 million Romanian anti-foreign campaign, the left was once again in power, who had already conducted an anti-foreign campaign against Hungarians in 2004. In 2006, it brought together a higher budget deficit than last year during the Covid epidemic, when jobs closed, tourism ceased. At the peak of the global economy, Hungary was almost bankrupt. No country has ever done such a thing. The 2006 elections were lied through hundreds of tricks. At first, they talked about it in a closed circle, and for months they did not admit the truth publicly. However, on 18 September 2006 the autumn speech was published, where people faced the real economic situation of the country and the moral state of the country's leaders at the same time. [[12.20]] The next day at the TV station, there were still unexplainable events. They sent policemen into the crowd without protective equipment, while Rebis units could not go to help their comrades. A hundred and fifty police officers were injured that day as if the decision makers were playing directly to make as many police officers as possible to override the emotions caused by the autumn speech. But then there was brutal retaliation. The cops got their I.D.s off, and the next few days, they beat up, humiliated everyone they saw. The Hungarian rule of law failed, the footage of the street surveillance cameras disappeared, without evidence, condemned innocent people without trial, and the bloody people who peed themselves were not allowed to bathe in jail for days. This was also protested by the SASZ, the Helsinki Committee, and the National Protection Service. This is how we reached the 50th anniversary of the 1956 War of Independence, where the police knowingly led the people in conflict with them into the celebration of the Fidesz 100 times as big a memorial, two minutes after the end of which a cavalry attack was ordered. Despite legal regulations, no policeman had any identification, non-regularized weapons, such as vipers, and shots fired from non-regular firearms to the head or to the upper body. Obviously, these events could only have happened with political support. Responsible? Instead of an apology, Ferenc Gyurcsány was melted away from the great performance of the police. Ferenc Gyurcsány, who ran the country like crazy Nero during this period, achieved his goal. To this day, we are talking at least as much about the fall 2006 clashes as we are talking about the autumn speech. Bloody, out-eyed, humiliated people, killed police officers, lied election campaign, ruined economy. On the basis of this, Ferenc Gyurcsány should have left public life long ago, but instead today, according to the old recipe, he is blackmailing parties, threatening and leading the strongest party in opposition cooperation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Márius Révész. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner will respond.
u2021-10-25-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What my fellow Member Márius Révész has listed, we can all agree on it. If you look at the Hungarian left XX. In the history of the century, we can see that the export product of the Bolshevik Empire is the product of XX. The 21st century and unfortunately now the 21st century We still have to live together in the century. We can think of 1919, but perhaps the most shameful period is the period after 45 when they gained power with election fraud in the shadow of Soviet bayonets. Technically, they imprisoned or executed the finest sons of our people by sweeping the legal system aside. Civil society has been deprived of its vital spirit, culture, political system, economy, and, as I said, often even of the possibility of physical existence. 1956 was a strong national response. National response to this historic dead end that communism reported. National response to the imperial oppression that the Soviet Union reported. 1956 was also about national unity. Balázs Barsi, Franciscan monk, in his article the other day, called 56 a "god' experience that he could experience when he was ten years old, expressing the psychic liberation that his ancestors brought to us. What did the left one do? The left was first shot, then pretended to compromise, then again called back the tanks, divisions of the Soviet Empire, and took power by force. In months, he overcame the workers' councils, imprisoned the finest leaders, and silenced the spirit of freedom for many years. And what did they also do to gain power? By the end of the 1980s, the country was bankrupted. And when the bankruptcy took place, and the great Soviet Union was no longer behind them, they sought new farmers, new powers to ensure their survival. If we look at our history after 90, we can see that the new farmers are grateful in that they want to help them again and again. I did it once or twice. What's next? Always the plundering of the people, the ruining of the people, and then the failure, are waiting for another civilian government to lead the country on the path of growth, to gain power and deceive the people, starved again and again. It was said in autumn 2006, which was a sad anniversary of 50 years of festive opportunities. Just think of the symbols, when they thought about such a beautiful anniversary in the great monument of 56, what they created: an iron brush, an oscillator, which is in their thoughts, which appears to be a means of keeping power, and they made use of this possibility in 2006. How did we get there in 2006? Ferenc Gyurcsány gained power with lies, held it by force, which was justified by the events of that time, and brought the country into economic chaos and bankruptcy just as its predecessors did. These dates are important mementos, these happenings, we should always mention them so that people know what is threatening them, what is meant by the cooperation in which all the Balliberal elements, including Jobbik, have now been bought in to demonstrate a unit. A unity that is merely about the attempt to gain power. They just promise victory, they promise no progress, they promise no better conditions, or if they promise, it's just as much a lie as before 2006, and we can see that they're talking about an energy union, which again would mean free market conditions and global capital rule. That's what we have to save this country from. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-28	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr András Aradszki to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-10-25-29	Dear Parliament, On this day's day, he applied for a speech following the agenda: Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Tünde Szabó, Fidesz; János Bencsik, independent; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Lyubomir Alexov, Serbian nationalist speaker; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; Tibor Nunkovics, Tibor Jobbik; János Pócs, Fidesz; András Aradszki, Fidesz; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; János Stummer, Jobbik; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; László Hajdu, DK; Anett Bősz, DK; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; and Gergely Kálló, Jobbik.
u2021-10-25-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:30, we will begin the discussion of the questions. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, "Do you still have the fruit and vegetable sector?" It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2021-10-25-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. We have been able to debate the domestic problems of the fruit and vegetable sector here in Parliament many times, sometimes at the overall level of the sector, and sometimes in the case of one plant. Now I would like to draw attention to the latter. In Hungary, sweet corn is grown on some 30-35 thousand hectares, while green peas are grown on a decreasing rate, but on about 18-21 thousand hectares. There is now a very serious problem in this area. These two plants mean that we are talking about about about 60 percent of all vegetable production areas. [[12.30]] I think this number shows the weight of the problem. This is not only said by me and not just by the producers, but also by FruitVeB, the Hungarian Interprofessional Organisation and Product Council, which has made a serious call for help, supported by numbers, to you, among other things. The pea crisis is not only self-evident, since it can also drag down the processing industry, typically the canning industry, and also the also second-hand sweet corn is highly dependent on the situation of green peas. In addition to the problems that have existed over the years, this year it was also close to the fact that we had an unusually cold, long, almost winter spring, which reduced the usual 30-35 days of the processing season to 20-22 days. So the problem, I think, is also well perceived and presented through this. The question arises, Mr Secretary: what about these two plants, the farmers who grow them, what about the manufacturing industry? Will they assist us in slowly disappearing from our country, like so many other cultivated vegetables and fruits, or are they finally taking meaningful steps to keep the jobs of workers in the sector and those in the food industry and to really provide them with a catch-up quality rural life in Europe? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-25-32	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2021-10-25-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In recent years, the production area of green peas has indeed decreased slightly, but the production has not been reported to this extent. Over the last six years, there have been around 90,000 tons of crops. I would like to point out that the Agricultural Ministry contributes by complex agricultural policy instruments to the effective management of the challenges facing the industrial vegetable sector, to crop safety and to increasing competitiveness, and to the stability of income. Direct grants provide farmers with a safety net, production and income security. Our country provides production-related support to certain sensitive sectors to the highest possible extent, so the support for industrial vegetable production is about HUF 4 billion. The Agricultural Ministry operates one of Europe's most advanced four-pillar agricultural risk management systems from 2021, which significantly helps to reduce the risk of producers. Irrigation development is one of the key keys to improving the efficiency of the domestic production of peas and sweet corn, for which a HUF 100 billion framework is available under the rural development programme. However, calls for the development of the gardening sector and the promotion of precision developments related to the digital agricultural transition were supported by calls for increased competitiveness, as well as for industrial vegetable production, and from 2023 we will pay particular attention to the situation in these sectors as well. Honourable Congressman, I am convinced, indeed, that there is now an idea, a plan for us, together with the FruitVeB you mentioned, which will bring about the situation and stability of the sector. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why not reduce the burden of the already difficult transport sector? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2021-10-25-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Many people, including people and people in the trade in goods, face a number of difficulties. It is the responsibility of the legislator to at least relieve the burden where this can otherwise be achieved through legislative amendment. The current Hungarian legislation on working requires professional drivers to continue their training and exams every five years, although the relevant EU directives do not require this examination, but only the 35-hour renewal course. The profession fully agrees with this renewal course, and there is a need, as appropriate, for drivers to be up-to-date and up-to-date in the context of the continuous change of traffic rules, while the obligation to conduct examinations every five years is considered unjustified. The common position of small, medium and large enterprises is that this examination would impose additional financial and financial burdens on those involved, not forgetting that there is a huge shortage of labour in this sector as well, and that competition for transport between EU countries is increasing. Experience in recent years has clearly demonstrated that maintaining up-to-date knowledge would not necessarily be ensured by this examination, but rather by a comprehensive training programme that provides modern, responsive skills for professional drivers. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State why the burden of the already difficult transport sector should not be reduced, why professional drivers should not be removed from the relevant government regulations for a five-year examination and when the framework for the professional training system can be developed to replace the official examination. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-10-25-36	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-10-25-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me, above all, to draw attention to a factual error that you have indicated. After 1 September 2021, the average time between the exam and the application for a driver's certificate was 4 days, and the average time between the exam and the receipt of the card was 13 days. That's nowhere near the time you indicated. Transport safety, reducing the number of accidents, I think, honourable Member, on behalf of all of us, we have a common interest. For this reason, the civil national government is committed to creating conditions for safe, non-accidental transport, whether it is infrastructure development or the establishment or development of traffic rules. This is precisely the aim of the training of truck drivers and bus drivers, and we use the means to ensure that these professionals can do their job at the highest professional level by maintaining, updating their knowledge, learning about market, technological, environmental and legal changes, as safe work must be of common interest for them and for all of us. With the introduction of the new examination schedule, the possibility of exams has been simplified, and it is possible in the period from Monday to Sunday, and, if necessary, until early evening, to ensure that they are able to pass the exam as easily as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-38	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How does the Orbán government prepare for the challenges posed by robotisation? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Oláh has the floor.
u2021-10-25-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Robotization is both a chance and a danger. Boston Consulting Group says that roboticization and artificial intelligence will deepen social differences. Better earners are able to get through it more easily, to train themselves more easily, to switch to other areas, but for the poorer, less educated, this will be almost an impossible task. In the short term, according to research, women will first be affected by the negative effects of robotisation, followed by men in the medium term, and in the long term, it is clear for low-skilled men that they are very exposed to robotisation. Transport and manufacturing will be more affected, but, for example, health and education will be less affected. In Canada, the basic curriculum has already been redesigned to prepare the new generation for roboticization. This is an exciting, strange world, perfecting a lot of things around us, but it can also have alienating effects on people and endanger their work. We consider it very important for the government to take this task before us seriously, to be in close consultation with the European Union, to participate in EU consultations. [[12.40]] I'd like to ask you how you plan to redesign the National Basics based on the effects of robotisation. Do you want to increase your IT education, confirm that? After all, research shows that this is a mandatory element of preparation for robotisation. Do you want to increase the incentives for lifelong learning, the resources to be spent on it? At the same time, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that the government only grant state aid for investment that takes account of these social aspects caused by robotisation and artificial intelligence. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-10-25-40	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-10-25-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you for bringing this important topic here to the Parliament, although it is difficult to debate this issue in two minutes, since the presence of robots and the use of robots is spreading everywhere in the world, including in Hungary. Digital development is all over the place. There is no area of the economy, of society, where there would not be any kind of involvement. But allow me, honourable Member, to draw your attention to the fact that if you had taken the trouble and not only criticized the national basic curriculum that was renewed in 2020, you would have read what might have been expected before a parliamentary speech, you would have seen that the IT subject had been replaced by the new and much more focused digital culture subject. And it was clear from this speech, honourable Member, that you do not know this document, and its fundamental content is the teaching and learning of robotics. As part of this, students will be familiar with the basics of robotics and coding in the third to fourth grade, and in the fifth to eighth grade they will address both the subject of algorithmisation and block programming and robotics. Thus, students are able to control movements in a simulated or real environment, collect data using sensors, gain experience about event control, and learn about the possibilities of spatial information and 3D display. Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw your attention to the fact that over the last decade the number of industrial robots has multiplied six times in Hungary, with a dynamic increase in industrial employment in Hungary. Just one example: around half of industrial robots are used in vehicle manufacturing, while employment has doubled in the last decade. Thank you for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-42	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What can child protection workers expect? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2021-10-25-43	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Prime Minister has recently announced that it will increase the wages of social workers by 20 percent and the wages of teachers by 10 percent. They're both a very good thing, but there are questions about that. The first would be that if the minimum wage were to rise to 200,000, it would not be possible to know exactly, and the EMMI had not yet answered that question, even though I have already written a number of questions about exactly how much the increase of 20 per cent results from the increase in the minimum wage and thus the guaranteed minimum wage. If it turns out that the wages of teachers and those working in the social sector are not actually rising, then this cannot really be called a sectoral wage increase, because, compared to the median wage, workers in the social sector will still earn very badly. But to get to child protection workers, they have a referendum initiative with this title, but at the same time child protection workers earn extremely badly, there is a very large shortage of workers; and it is very difficult for workers in child protection to calculate who, on the basis of a pay table, and who is paid on the basis of a social sector wage table, or if one of them rises by 20 percent and the other by 10 percent, will have any tension in the workplace because of this wage difference; and for those working in the child protection sector, how will the net increase of 168 000 is equal to 188 thousand after 15 years of employment, which may cost about as much as if the referendum were not held. So overall, if this is such a very important case for you and you talk about it so many times, then perhaps people who work on the front line in child protection deserve to have a net wage of HUF 163 thousand after 15 years of employment. This is an existing wage paper I saw yesterday, and therefore I think it would be worth starting with in reality, not Mr Retvári State Secretary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] from various production reports. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-25-44	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ungár. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-10-25-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Congressman. Dear House, In order to ask these questions, it is also worth asking those around you why the wages of social workers have been reduced. At a time when you're worried about the rate of wage increases, you never worry about how much it hurt the people who work here when it was a wage cut. I assure you, honourable Member, that wage increases relate to the combined amount of basic wages and associated unitary sectoral allowances, so this is one of the most important answers to your question. It affects 90,000 people, 90,000 social workers. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] It will be 20 per cent; both in the social field and in the child protection area, there is a wage increase. You live on the staff of the state institutions, the employees of the municipal institutions, the staff of the church maintenance staff and the civil maintenance staff, so it covers everyone, honourable Member. As I said, so the basic wage and the sectoral bonus, the sum of the two increases. It is worth looking at the average wage in the social sphere at the beginning of our governance, honourable Member: it was 137 thousand forints if you mentioned specific figures, it was 137 thousand forints, and next year it will be 370 thousand forints. So, instead of HUF 137 thousand, it is HUF 370 thousand; this means that wages in the social sphere increase by 170 percent during our governance. Obviously, every man's salary is determined by his education and how many years he spent in work. As an additional resource, we have allocated 62 billion forints in next year's budget, or we will use it for this wage increase. Last year's budget was HUF 36 billion in surplus; before that, there was a HUF 9 billion in 2017; before that, there was a HUF 16 billion in 15 and a surplus of EUR 12 billion in 14. The latest wage increase in 2020 was an average of 30,000 forints per employee, and now it will be about 51,000 forints on average, which social workers will earn more. We hope that we can continue this for a long time and hope that the times when it has been reduced will not come back. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the salaries of social workers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-46	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. After schooling, are they willing to let me into the territory of the Fertő Coast? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2021-10-25-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We could have saved us this round, because a month ago I turned to the Ministry in a letter, asked for their consent to join me in the field of Lake Fertő investment, but even though it took a month, they didn't even give me an answer. Of course, I'm not in a good mood to write to you either. The local governor, the company. I asked his C.E.O. to let me in, but he gave me a negative answer. I don't know what the risks are for my investment, but it's a good thing they let schoolchildren and selected press colleagues into Lake Neusiedl. I suppose Lőrinc Mészáros called off that I shouldn't be allowed in, but as you know, Parliamentary Members have a duty to inform, and state agencies have to provide support for that. I know this rule has also been neutered, and the rights of representation have been weakened, but we may be able to make an appointment in advance. Of course, we would like to enter the territory of Lake Fertő because we have very serious concerns about the investment; we are seriously concerned about the natural values of Lake Fertő. We can see that these could be damaged. So in light of this, there is no question why we would like to see the works with our own eyes. That's why we don't understand, I don't understand why all this secrecy is so big. So if you would be so kind, Mr Secretary of State, to answer when I can look at the investment in Lake Fertő, how this can happen. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-10-25-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. [[12.50]]
u2021-10-25-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I'm assuming that he might have wanted to act like they used to, that they wouldn't have seen him as a schoolboy, they would've seen him as a kindergarten teacher, and obviously they wouldn't let kindergarten kids in. Just as anarchists are not allowed in because they fear for the territory, because they fear for investment; just as they act like anarchists here in Parliament, either in the TV headquarters, or throughout the country, or they may have been afraid to act as if they were driving, while there is garbage, dirt and filth, so Natura 2000 may have been feared of you. In addition, there is another assumption that, although there are huge debates on the economic development of Lake Fertő and its surroundings, there is a concern that you might be, not sure, that you would prefer to support the Austrians rather than do so in so many other cases when you take action against the Hungarian nation, Hungary, they represent the interests of György Soros, they represent the interests of Brussels and represent the interests of the network. Just ask your fellow Member, so how can we think about that? But after asking a short question, I will answer briefly: feel free to go, try again, they will let you in. There will probably be more crowds waiting for you than there are now on October 23rd. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-50	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, Ms Zsuzsanna Vitályos, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of State who is head of the Prime Minister's Office:. After 15 years of waiting, when and in what amount will EU applications appear? It's an address. Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Vítalyos has the floor.
u2021-10-25-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Six months is not enough or many? That is how long I have been assigned to László L. Simon's parliamentary seat. I think there are two kinds of people. One says why you can't do what you can't do, the other says what you can do. I, along with the other family mothers, think I'm the second type. In 2016 we initiated in Brussels so that the Pest county people could apply for EU funds by creating an independent region. I am pleased to report to the pilis-dunakanyararias that, thanks to our perseverance, EU development aid will be available from this year onwards. Now we have six months to plan what we're going to use this money for. A little or a lot? I think it's enough, because miracles can be done in six months. This year we will do the necessary public opinion polls, and together with the locals we will create the,, Örövöz the Pilis-Dunakanyar, development strategy. In this, we are proposing concrete solutions for the saturation of our roads 10 and 11, for the protection of our natural and built heritage, for further improvement of our regional education and health, which, if appropriate, will be presented to this House in the next six months. The people here have been waiting 15 years for the EU funds to finally open up to them. With regard to the above, I would like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, when and in what amount the calls for proposals for which we have been fighting are expected to be published, and to which the Pest County people, if they allow me to speak home, may also submit their support requests. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-52	Thank you, Congresswoman Eszter Battalion. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész.
u2021-10-25-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm glad they're letting you into Pest County, so you're probably able to behave. And I am also pleased that, after a long, long struggle with our Pest County politicians, the government and our European Union politicians, Pest County will finally get its share, if you can say so. Finally, Brussels' comrades and masters have noticed that it should be treated as a separate region, as we have long wanted to achieve, and as a result, as of 1 January 2022, there will be no obstacle to the possibility for 230 thousand businesses in the county, over 6 000 non-profit organisations, municipalities and churches to apply for the opportunities which the rest of the county of the country can, by the way, apply for in the past and in the future. Another issue is that we are talking about a huge amount of money, and it is important to achieve this, but it is just a question of how we can reach it immediately. This huge sum is HUF 140 billion, which is published in the area of Pest County in the framework of TOP Plus, as well as the HUF 2400 billion budget of the GINOP proposals and the economic development framework of Pest County. I said it was a different question because the masters of Brussels and their comrades are messing with us right now, and that's for nothing else, because they want to wait for the elections next year, and they want to blackmail us, blackmail us with money, so that the Pest County people can't get their money. I have bad news for them: they can get it, because the Hungarian government will advance it and advance it, so for example, the GINOP programme already has a budget of 250 billion. A tender has already been submitted in part, and will be published this year in part, and Pest County will benefit from it as well. Another question is that we must, of course, expect this money to be received from Brussels. Thank you for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-54	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. The nation's day laborers or the government's pariahs? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2021-10-25-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure there are also those in the pro-government benches who remember the opposition, as you've created a National Pedagogist Faculty, a year-reviewer. What did they say? They said that it was in the interests of the whole country that they should be taught professionally, by teachers who look to their job as a profession and are able to lead an intellectual lifestyle from their wages. You can point it back here, Mr. Secretary. I'm sure you'll do that. However, in the 12th year of the two-thirds Fidesz reign, what is the situation? Well, the fact that we are the last of the OECD countries in terms of the prestige of teachers. The situation, please, is that according to the Global Teacher status index, people believe that the necessary teacher's wages are 50 percent below the desired. The fact is, according to the PDSZ survey, 97 percent of teachers were talking about financial difficulties. The fact is, Mr Secretary, that teachers' wages are still calculated on the basis of the 2014 minimum wage. There is a reason for the terrible situation here in Hungary that teachers' wages, the average teacher's wages, reach only two thirds of the average graduating wages. Recently, the Labor College of the Budapest Surroundings Tribunal passed a judgment stating that the free work was over and that the overtime of teachers had to be paid. Secretary of State, with all due respect, are you willing to accept this verdict? Will you finally appreciate teachers and not offer them less than a 10-percent wage increase for your apology? Are you finally willing to forget the mentality of viewing the nation's day laborers as pariahs of the government? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-10-25-56	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-10-25-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Speaking of earlier sentences, earlier promises, I would be interested to know what it was like for you to be on stage with Antal Apró's grandson after he told you all about DK, the Socialists, the Left and Ferenc Gyurcsány in Parliament, and then yesterday he went up, and there he was with Klára Dobrev on 23 October with Antal Apró's grandson. So much for your consistency. You know very well what they did to the teachers: they took a month's wages from all teachers, they laid off 15,000 teachers, they closed the school in 381 places, they paid the teacher's education in order to discourage young people from entering the teaching career, and you are working on the return of this period, honourable Member. You have not once voted in Parliament for the additional subsidies from which we have been able to raise the wages of teachers in recent years. [[13.00]] In fact, why don't you check it out? Why don't you check with Klara Dobrev and give each other a round of applause on the stage? Why did you say that when it was obvious that the government was preparing a teacher's wage increase next year that there was no need for pre-election government business for educators? Do you need a raise or do you not need a raise? You stand up here and say that there is a need for a wage increase, and that Klára Dobrev says that there is no need for government business, honourable Member. That is already the way to call a wage increase, a 10% wage increase, that it is bizsu, I think it is just outrageous because when the left was on the government in Hungary, the crisis was treated by taking me away from teachers. They didn't take it from anyone else, they didn't take it from multi-company companies, they didn't take it from banks. They took me away from the teachers! They took me away from the pensioners! (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And in the year of the crisis, last year, we raised the wages of teachers by 10 percent. At the same time, the directors had a wage increase, and the deputy directors had a wage increase, which was a larger 30-50 percent increase: a 50 percent increase, a 30 percent increase in salaries, and the first civil servant group to whom a wage increase programme was launched [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That was exactly a 50 percent raise for teachers. We would like to continue with this increase, and we do not want the period of wage cuts to return. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-58	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-25-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Last week, I wanted to find out about the restructuring of the on-call system, how it caused problems at the National Rescue Service, that the new on-call system was introduced experimentally in Hajdú-Bihar County. I would like to ask Mr State Secretary more specifically now. Last week, there was a debate on the 2020 accounts, and although there was a number of data available on the rescue service, it was surprising that it was not possible to know how many vacant posts there were at the rescue service. This is strange because it was clearly stated in the final accounts of the 2019 budget that, at the end of the period, 201 jobs were vacant, typically in Budapest and Pest county ambulance drivers' jobs. A similar interesting figure from the accounts is that the increase in the wage for the rescue service is primarily justified by the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, which is not exactly proof of decent pay for the work of the paramedics. That is precisely why I would like to know, Mr Secretary, that you can tell us how many people were absent from the rescue service in 2020 and I would like to ask once again that the new on-call system introduced in Hajdú-Bihar me-gye experimentally caused a shortage of professionals in the rescue service. How many people have recently resigned in Hajdú-Bihar County, and have you been aware of the cases, say, when rescue officers and paramedics from Bács-Kiskun County or surrounding counties are being rerouted to the county of Hajdú-Bihar in order to provide the on-call system? I hope I get answers to the questions now. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-10-25-60	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári will answer the question. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, the situation of the National Rescue Service today is much more stable than it was a decade ago. You know, at the time, the annual budget for the rescue service was HUF 26.7 billion. The next year's rescue budget will be 65.4 billion forints. This more than double, two and a halffold increase shows how much more important it is for the government to save. In the last years of their government, you barely even bought an ambulance, and there was a year when you didn't buy any. On the other hand, we bought 800-900 ambulances, and we also managed to reduce the average age of ambulances from 8.3 in 2011 to 4.7-4.8 years, precisely to ensure that ambulances are equipped as well as possible. But not only the ambulances, but also the rescue stations. We have renovated 107 rescue stations across the country, honourable Member, and we have built 34 completely new rescue stations, precisely so that ambulances can reach anywhere faster. This is also important for rescue tasks, but obviously at the time when the National Rescue Service took over on-call care in Hajdú-Bihar County, we can also say that it was taken back, because there was an earlier period when the rescue service was a national care provider, well, at this time it is useful to have 34, a completely new rescue station and a much better budget National Rescue Service, compared to your time when the number of doctors decreased from 37 295 to 33 943. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and A lot of people in Hajdú-Bihar County and elsewhere are concerned about your statement that 45% of hospitals have to be closed in Hungary. After all, Imre László, your politician, said that 45 percent of hospitals are not needed, and that is what people are really worried about. However, I would like to reassure you how much the number of doctors working in the new medical service has increased since 1 March: the number of doctors by 1881 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the nurses with 1942, and the other workers with 843. [[The president's ringing again.]] That's a total of 4666 people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-62	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, on behalf of the DK Group, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When can the residents take possession of the specialized clinic in Kőbánya? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-63	Thank you very much. In fact, this question is now extremely simple, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State to answer this one question so kindly, because today his answers have not been influenced by the question, but perhaps he will make an exception and say a specific date. We know that at least the people of Kőbánya know that the new specialist has been built in Kőbánya; this is certainly good news. I think it's a proper thing, and we can all enjoy it together. Old debt, by the way, is to finally move out of the clinics on Kőbánya Road, where there are many, many difficulties and problems for both patients and health workers in the last century. Therefore, the inhabitants of Kőbánya are looking forward to attending the new specialized clinic, but this did not happen, although the building was ready, it was not handed over, it had a fire point in it, it was understandable. This is only a part of the building, I add, but the question has now become very urgent, and so please, Mr Secretary of State, that is the main reason why the people of Kőbánya should be prevented from taking possession of the completed new specialist. Health workers are not available? Furniture, tools, anything at all? And when can the people of Kőbánya use the clinic? When are the clinics moving to Bajcsy Hospital? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2021-10-25-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, our Fundamental Law also states that everyone has the right to the highest level of health care. This is the Fundamental Law that you said Klára Dobrev wouldn't shake when the Constitution has to be thrown into a trash can, so it seems that these parts are not so important to you then, honourable Member, but they weren't important when you closed hospitals, you took a month's wages, you dropped medical workers, or you introduced hospital visits and daily allowances. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. Gergely Harvestó: When will the clinic open?]] Honourable Congressman, You have also said that this is a hospital-related development, which is included in the program "Healthy Budapest" programme. In the Healthy Budapest program, which includes this development, we spend a total of HUF 700 billion on developments in Budapest and Pest county. [[Gergely Harvestó: When will the clinic open?]] Of these, there are 32 clinics, one of the 32 clinics you referred to, and since 2016 we have spent a total of 147 billion forints to enable the development of either the one you mentioned or the other clinics to take place. However, it does not matter whether we build a clinic in a hospital that the left would close or not, we do not know that according to the plans of Imre László László Bajcsy Hospital, it is the 45 percent that will not survive in the time of left-wing governance, or the ones that are allowed to continue to build. [[Gergely Harvestó: When will the clinic open?]] As you mentioned, it is the new specialized clinic in the S building of Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital and Clinic, which many people have been waiting for for for a long time. From a medical point of view, this renaissance could begin to function, but you also mentioned that, because of the coronal virus epidemic, on the one hand, what you said and it was a screening station. At the same time, some of the medical technology, IT equipment and furniture are in the process of being purchased, and if these two obstacles are removed, we hope that the epidemic will be over as soon as possible, and that there is no need for a fire point operation. [[Gergely Harvestó: When will the clinic open?]] , these purchases will be completed, then they will be made. I can tell you one thing for sure: unlike you, there will be no visitation fee machine in this office. Thank you very much. [[There's a riot in DK's benches. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.10]]
u2021-10-25-66	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. The Hungarian Government is willing to act in favour of Hungarian workers working abroad? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister, László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is responsible for the subject, answers on behalf of Deputy Minister János Schanda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-67	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, A recent court ruling in Germany stated that it was illegal and contrary to the principles of the European Union that a Bulgarian elderly caregiver did not receive the German minimum wage on an hourly basis. There was a similar scandal in the Netherlands and Germany regarding meat processing, where East European workers, including Hungarian workers, worked in these plants under the coronal virus, where more were also affected by health damage, and for a much lower amount than the minimum wage of the country in question. Many Hungarians work through such a labour agency or by doing temporary work in Western Europe, who do not receive the minimum wage of the country there. When Hungary joined the European Union, it was said that in return or encouraging to go to work in Western Europe, the minimum wage must be paid to all workers there. There was a debate in the European Parliament, and the representatives of Fidesz did not speak to it. Here the position of European greens is that there is a need to ban labour placement in certain sectors, or that the labour agency must undertake to receive the minimum wage of the country or to change it, and that the rules on temporary work in the European Union must be harmonised. Obviously, this would be useful for Hungarian workers, as it would increase both their wages and their working conditions. This is a case in which freedom could be fought, in which the interests of Hungarian workers could be represented against Brussels. My question is, why didn't this happen? Why don't you write a letter to Mrs Von der Leyen on this matter, since your parliamentary group is already operating in Brussels as a correspondence section? Why don't you talk about this instead of fighting different fantasies, and why don't you stand up for the Hungarian workers? Thank you very much.
u2021-10-25-68	Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr. Secretary of State, Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you were really interested in the fate of the Hungarian people working abroad or the fate of the working Hungarian people in general, you would at least be aware of which member of the government the employment policy belongs after a few years. [[Noise.]] Especially after a few days ago, honourable Member, I gave you an answer on the same question. If you had read my answer to your question, you wouldn't have asked the question, and on the other hand you would have known where to address it. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to even tell you that it seriously undermines the credibility of your question when you talk about the interests of employees, that you are trying to help Ferenc Gyurcsány back into power... [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Perhaps, Congressman, to yell and joke here, but the thing is, it's a deadly serious story. You personally raised your political career to bring that Ferenc Gyurcsány back into politics and bring it back to power, under whom Hungarian workers had to face terrible conditions, employment was at a record low level and unemployment was record high. Honourable Congressman, We, the national civilian government, have stood up, stand up and stand up for the interests of workers, their decent wages and their living conditions, regardless of the country in which the Union works. And there is no debate between us on the fact that these conditions are also necessary when working abroad. Moreover, the current legislative environment provides workers with this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-70	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How does the design process continue with the Tisza Bridge on Csáklya Road and the connecting road bypassing Szandaszőlőst? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-25-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Deputy Minister, Dear House, Infrastructure itself is very important for the development of Szolnok's future. Of course, this is the case in every city, but Szolnok's gifts are particularly important. By the beginning of the following year, road 4 bypassing the Szolnok will be completed, and the motorists will be able to use it. This means that the logistics capabilities of the county seat are, in any case, a competitive factor with a good infrastructure. At the same time, however, a very important road development for Szolnok, the downtown road bridge and the road bypassing the Szandaszőlős part of the city are being planned. This basically defines the future of Szolnok, since Szolnok is in difficulty with transport. The completion of this bypass road and the new bridge will enable the development of different parts of the city to be further developed, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to alleviate the very often serious traffic jams that citizens struggle with every day. This is definitely important to the Szolnok. The people of Szolnok are constantly monitoring the design, the working phases, and obviously looking forward to the construction. According to the news of the past few weeks, the process of thanking God is that the first phase of planning has been completed, and the jury has made a decision. The planner's decision has been made by assigning a new trail. I respectfully ask how the design process of the Tisza Bridge on Csáklya Road and the road connecting to it, bypassing Szandaszőlőst, can be started at the earliest, and what decision has been taken by the design jury. With all due respect to the work done so far, the Szolnok people are looking forward to this development. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Within the framework of the road programme, the authorisation plan for the Szolnok, Csáklya street relief road was completed. Within the framework of the project, the construction of a 200-metre-long Tisza Bridge and a 650-metre-long price bridge, the development of a 1,2-km-long road network connected to the Tiszaliget part of the city, the 8-mile-long one-track road bypassing the Szandaszőlős part of the city and a 1.3-mile-long collection distribution track along main road number 4. The study plan was completed, and the design jury supported the southwest track variation between Highway 402 and Highway 4, so that for the road connection between Highway 402 and the new Tisza Bridge, the overpass over the industrial area will be set up on pillars and partly on a back wall. That is why I can say that, thanks to the persistent work of the honourable Member in the interests of families living in the region, the development can now take a new stage in the preparation of the export plans. The planned date for obtaining an environmental permit is the first quarter of 2022, the permit plans are expected in the first half of 2023 and the export plan documentation can then be completed by the fourth quarter of 2023. It also shows that this is a major development, which contributes significantly to the development of transport infrastructure in the area, thus further strengthening the region's economy, so it also serves to improve the quality of life of families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-74	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: what does the government intend to do to reduce the pollution of the Tisza? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Sándor Pintér has appointed Minister of the Interior with responsibility and competence according to the subject. At the request of Minister Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman. [[13.20]]
u2021-10-25-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, Today we produce garbage in increasing quantities and more dangerous content, which has grown into a global problem. Today, the time and intensity of flooding of rivers have become unpredictable, and the composition of the valuable cargo transported by the river has also changed. In fact, we find in it almost everything we see on the shelves of the shops, and then we haven't even talked about the chemicals we can't see. Most of the waste comes from beyond our current borders, from Transcarpathia and Transylvania, where unfortunately it is common practice to place waste around houses in the floodplain. The waste collected during the winter months is picked up by a river swollen from spring melting waters and rains, transported across the border, then dumped on the lower section, in floodland forests, on the shores of sand islands. In many cases, the accumulated drift causes millions of damage. Although the Tisza pollution is not a new problem, its solution is difficult because it affects not only one country but also several countries in the Carpathian Basin. Hungarian and Ukrainian activists are working on it, but the pollution in Tisza has not been eliminated in recent years. The Tisza pollution has existed for more than a decade and a half, and since 2004 there has been significant quantities of PET bottles and other communal waste mixed with plant drifts. The waste comes in the water catchment area of the Upper Tisza, typically after the rainy weather, from Tisza and Transylvania on Szamos and Krasná, and less often on Bodrogon and Hernád from the Highlands. In the last 15 years, there have been 40 cases of pollution of 50 bottles or more on the Tisza, and the peak has reached 300-500 bottles per minute. Preventing pollution and its creation would be manageable for our high-water neighbours, but there is almost no organised waste management in Ukraine, so until the high-water countries solve this problem locally, it will not be over for us either. The solution to the problem would be cooperation between countries. So I ask the honourable Secretary of State what they intend to do to solve the serious problem at national level. I look forward to your meaningful reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-10-25-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, His question and comment highlights that Hungary, although extremely rich in natural waters, is vulnerable to these natural waters, as more than 90 percent of these waters come to us from across the border. With regard to Tisza, it is indeed the same as the Member said, since 2004 there has been repeated, regular, very large quantities of communal waste coming from foreign river basins. Indeed, the fundamental reason for this is that the collection of municipal waste has not been resolved or resolved in part in Romania and in Ukraine in virtually no way, and the population is indeed placing these communal waste in the floodplain, and the floods are regularly bringing it across the border. On the one hand, I should like to thank organisations, civil society, who are involved in the collection of waste, but this is obviously not the solution to catching waste. Therefore, by its Resolution 1519/2018 the government provided 1.3 million forints of resources for the development of the Upper Tisza Water Directorate and four other water directorates, to buy assets and thus significantly reduce the flow of waste. Therefore, they are practically trying to catch or remove waste from the Tisza territory. This is a struggle against a warlike event, but it alone does not solve the problem of not solving waste shipments in the water catchment area itself. The Romanian and Ukrainian partners are continuously consulted. There seems to be significant progress in Romania, and illegal landfills are indeed being contained there. There is good cooperation with water experts in Ukraine, but the political situation there does not show that this problem will be resolved in the short term. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-78	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. When will the local governments get their own business tax back due to the virus crisis? It's an address. Mr László Hajdu has the floor.
u2021-10-25-79	Dear Secretary of State, As a former mayor, I'd like to ask you a question. I think that there has been a 50 percent withdrawal of business tax in the period of the pandemic without special consultation with the municipalities. It's been very quiet since the withdrawal of this trade tax. Local governments should operate their settlements, which include road repairs, road constructions, nursery and kindergarten renovations. There is no money for anything, because this source is not available to the municipalities. At the same time, it is also said in response that this source has been allocated to local small and medium-sized enterprises, so no one has taken it, not this money has gone to ruin, but this resource has been supported by small businesses. I tried the bar, the district council, to find out who the people who got that kind of source. Obviously, they don't know data, they're claiming that it's being centrally managed, and of course, they don't know an entrepreneur who got that kind of money in the district. We don't know. This takes a few billion forints only to the XV. from the district, but I can say that this source took 30 billion from the capital city or 35 billion from the districts of Budapest and 65 billion forints from Budapest. I'd like to ask you what's so quiet about. Will the municipalities get this back? Are you going to have any more of this? After all, next year's plans and budget preparation are about to begin, and it is not known that the municipalities can expect operational, development and renovation money, which represents a significant part of the budget. I'll ask the Secretary of State if we can get him back. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-10-25-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister András Tállai. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you know, protection against a coronal virus epidemic is a complex task, affecting all citizens, economic operators, entrepreneurs, public bodies, government bodies and local governments. The fight against the crisis involves sacrifices. With a sacrifice to which everyone must contribute and contribute, as expenditure on the economic protection action plan, protection against the epidemic, is a significant cost, which represented almost 30% of GDP. By the way, we managed to dampen 6 percent of the economic downturn, save 704 thousand jobs. A 1% reduction in business tax provides less tax-paying opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises. In the population of less than 25,000 people, the government reimbursed it in its entirety, while in the population of 25,000 individual decisions were made. Honourable Congressman, You are the XV. He was mayor of the district for nearly 20 years. Then you know that the government freed the municipality from a debt burden of HUF 5 billion 840 million between 2010 and 14 who, by the way, had collected this debt before you were the mayor. By the way, the district's finances are not bad now, as the local tax revenue is HUF 9-10 billion per year, with a cash flow balance of HUF 6 billion and HUF 479 million at the end of the semester 2021. The municipality is in a strong financial position and does not need any state aid. The municipality shall be subject to the conditions set out in Annex XV. In the district where you come from, it's still operational. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-82	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Are you interested in the fate of students in Józsefváros? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2021-10-25-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, There was a sad incident in Józsefváros, which is unfortunately not unique: without seemingly deeper professional conviction, two schools, the Lakatos Menyhért and the Deák Student School were merged without consulting or agreeing to parents' working communities. [[13.30]] The Lakatos has been threatened with closure for years because the growing proportion of children with integration problems has become an increasing problem. Although the deputy mayor would have considered desegregation a good idea, and if the building was used for cultural purposes, the inner-Pest district would have wanted to set up an AMI here, and so continue the transfer of children with special educational needs to Józsefváros. It is positive, of course, if the deputy mayor is thinking about integrated education, but what guarantee is there that the merger will not only result in cold integration? In the absence of adequate methodological basis, financial expenditure, mergers often lead to a background of positives. The Deák Student is facing a pedagogical renewal, which will also be part of the new member institution, but the difficult task should not leave the institution alone. Moreover, since there are few municipal-owned buildings in the district that could be used for cultural purposes, for example, it is important that Lakatos' fate be taken into account. I would therefore like to ask with great respect the grounds on which parents were not consulted on the restructuring. Will the institutions be helped to achieve real integrated, better-inclusive education? If the purpose of the school district is to save Lakatos, then why is there nothing to know about the abolition of segregation, the renewal of primary school education? And what is not negligible: in a merger where one school mainly deals with disadvantaged students, the most important question is really how can we take the property away from the institution? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-25-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2021-10-25-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In fact, you do not need to ask us, but you need to study the judgment of the court, honourable Member. In 2019, the Metropolitan Court issued a final judgment on the desegregation measures in order to restore the requirement of equal treatment. If you study this decision, you can see why it happened. You cannot say at all that the Lakatos has been threatened with closure for years, because it certainly was not a threat from the institutionkeeper; I do not know what threat you felt, honourable Member, but there is no doubt that the court has made a decision here. You can also see that there are dozens of moving organizations in your background who are starting lawsuits like this all over the country, not just by the VIIIth. in the district, but also in many other places, often even bringing well-meaning people to court, who set up schools for direct catching up purposes. Here they also said that they received a fixed grant of 70-80,000 forints from the Open Society Institute, that they had money to sue for this. 28 schools have been sued, they are also your supporters, from Hajdúhadház to Kerepes to Kaposvár in many places, involving 11 metropolitan schools, VII, VIII, IX, XX. district. I'm telling you, almost 30 primary schools have been sued. They didn't provide help, they didn't bring teachers or volunteer helpers to help a more difficult school to give disadvantaged children more time, more energy to help, but simply sue and try to shut down these schools. We will strive, honourable Member, to keep both schools in this place at least at the previous level and to be better schools, if possible, so that the Lakatos School will have a very innovative and open leadership for new ideas. In addition, of course, the two schools in their own place [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] have been able to start education under previous circumstances. It would be better for everyone to talk about how they can help these institutions rather than attack them in court. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-86	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing national assets:. Which Balaton-coastal property will be put in his pocket and taken away from the Hungarian families? It's an address. Mr. Ádám Steinmetz has the floor.
u2021-10-25-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The family-friendly government of Hungary understands the essence of supporting families in a specific way, because I ask: how many Hungarian families are happy to have you sell the large-value property on the shore of Lake Balaton owned by them? Well, except for some privileged ones, certainly none! And yes, in my narrower country, Somogyország, the Fidesz government sold, alienated the formerly state-owned Balatonboglár Mellő camp, the children's camp in Fonyódliget and the Vas county resort in Balatonberény. Dear Secretary of State, Which one of the properties on the shore of Lake Balaton will be put in the pocket and taken away from the Hungarian families? It's not the water management resort in Balatonmariafürdő, is it? 'Cause if you do, you're gonna be pushing families that can't afford a pepper beach pass anywhere else from a thousand four-mile shore of Lake Balaton. If you do this, you will eliminate or limit the free beaching opportunities of thousands of families in Somogy, because after that, you will not be able to take down a towel on the shore of Lake Balaton from crowdedness. Dear Secretary of State, On the free beach of Balatonmáriafürdő Ship Station, the part owned by the Hungarian state and the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, has already been surrounded by a fence. Did they do it because they want to sell it before the change of government? Yes or no? And if so, please don't do that, because this is gonna be a huge mess. At least leave our free beach alone in Balatonmariafürdő! Let us look forward to an honored and at the same time reassuring response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-25-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy, Deputy Minister, who will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The answer is, briefly, no. The Hungarian government does not deprive families of free beaching facilities or direct access to Lake Balaton, especially at the Balatonmáriafürdő boat station and on the free beach. You wouldn't do that, because this is the direct waterfront site and please write this down, it makes the work easier, this is the 500/11 Balatonmaria bath. The local government owns the local map number. By the way, the municipality received more than HUF 60 million of state aid for this free beach development in 2019. In the vicinity of the free beach, the state owns about 10 thousand square meters of holiday building, property with a yard name, which was in the management of the Upper Tisza Water Management Directorate until January 2021. For only a thousand square metres of this area, the Water Management Board concluded in 2012 an agreement for use with the municipality of the municipality. This agreement expired on 1 January due to the termination of the property management rights of the Water Management Board. The Hungarian National Asset Manager received the property part back by the end of the beach season, including the fence of the property, taking into account the tourism interests, only then took place. The municipality indicated its intention to acquire free ownership of the property as an additional requirement in the framework of the Hungarian village programme, to the size of 2 thousand square metres of the entire property area. The current construction regulations do not allow for the transfer because, according to the regulations, either full property may be transferred into property or, following the amendment of the municipal regulations, the real estate design must be carried out in respect of the part of the property concerned. I'm just sitting here saying that, by the way, if all of this happens, there's no reason for the municipality to ask for it to be owned free of charge. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-90	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bősz Anett, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What to do when 15-20 percent fewer cancer patients were diagnosed in a year? It's an address. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor.
u2021-10-25-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At the conference of the Hungarian Society of Health Economics, a study was presented that 15-20 percent fewer cancer patients were diagnosed during the period of the coronal virus. Early diagnosis is exceptionally important in cancer cases, late diagnosis of disease makes healing significantly difficult if possible. Minister Kásler said earlier that health care had not been shaken in the waves of the virus, and he did not know of any patients who had not been treated. This study, on the other hand, denies the Minister. [[13.40]] The authors examined the impact of the epidemic on lung, colon, and rectum patients and breast cancer patients. This showed that some 5,000 unrecognized patients were not currently receiving treatment. This means 1,300 cases of lung cancer, 2,300 cases of colon cancer and 1,400 cases of breast cancer. We don't know anything about the fate of patients invisible to the supply system. Thus, contrary to previous government statements, health has been shaken, but most of all, those affected in this way by the epidemic or the health situation, as I described above, have been shaken. The government has repeatedly suspended organised screenings, and it is obvious that the reorganisation of hospital benefits has also hurt. I personally know a man who was waiting for preventive surgery because he was standing in the anteroom of cancer, but he got this treatment months later, and he ended up recovering. I hope there are others like him who are lucky. The real number, however, is the number of deaths that we will find out later during the Covid epidemic. Secretary of State, with all due respect, what if 15-20 percent less cancer is diagnosed in a year? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-10-25-92	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You have been conducting an extremely inhuman false news campaign for the last week or two, Madam honourable Member, where you are washing up the regular, two- or three-year-old screening and treatment of cancer patients directly, and you are trying to say that you are trying to suggest that cancer patients have not been treated. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Compared to 2019, in 2020 there was 3.1 There is no doubt that, in the case of two or three-year screenings, for a smaller period than in other countries, but because of the epidemic, precisely in order not to infect one another in hospital waiting rooms, they have been suspended, in total, once for two months and once for three weeks, but this is much less than in England, for example, where these screening tests have been suspended for six months. And in Hungary, it was not the case, honourable Member, that, for example, in France, oncological patients were delayed, oncological surgeries, because their health system was so overloaded with patients with a coronal virus epidemic that they could not provide them. And you can say this by saying that all you have done here in Parliament and outside the walls of this Parliament is to try and talk people out of vaccination, especially the Chinese vaccination and the Russian vaccination. Their parliamentary decision has not been withdrawn to this day, it is still on Parliament's website, which you have encouraged people to fight vaccinations, which would have allowed them to prolong the period of the epidemic, which would have put more people's health at risk. I would like to say once again that all urgent care, all life-saving care, all care that prevented future serious harm to health has happened in Hungary. Hats off to everyone who performed emergency or cardiovascular surgeries, cancer surgeries, cancer treatments, because they all happened. You also lack credibility with regard to screening tests, because in 93 which government introduced cervical cancer screening in Hungary? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Antall government. Who introduced breast cancer screening in 2002? The first Orbán government. [[The president's ringing again.]] And who introduced the colon and rectal cancer screenings? The fourth Orbán government. Not you, not the left, just the right. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-94	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:. How could it be that, after the authority rejected the permission of the PAKS2 documentation based on plans made by Russians put into position without a tender, the government did not give a clear explanation to the Hungarian public, but rushed to Moscow to negotiate behind closed doors with the leaders of the ROSZATOM? It's an address. [[Defiance and intervention in the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Long! This is gonna take a minute.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Your job here at the Parliament is to give us answers on a professional basis about the Paks II project, and I have experienced it over the past year, and I have often asked you orally and in writing that you are trying to give us some kind of answer even when there are virtually no answers. We remember, in the summer of 19th, at your ministerial hearing, you said that the Russians were studying the domestic technical environment, or you were forced to say that you didn't know when there would be a design document that could be submitted. At the same time, we can see that the process of this matter is increasing to a political level. After the Russian design documentation failed and on 12 October the Hungarian government was called into the centre of Rosatom, Minister Szijjártó was not travelling, but Minister Péter Szijjártó. What I would like to ask is whether professional or political aspects dominate this, we can say that the project is in crisis and how this affects the Minister's work. I would also like you to present it, Minister, or to publish the reasons why the plan, based on the design documentation, was the issue of the permit. Here is a very, very serious question, which is perhaps the most pressing issue from a professional point of view, on which I asked Mr Pál Kovács, State Secretary, and that is the issue of earthquake security. We know there's an active fault line under the new nuclear plant's site. I would like us to finally get a clear answer that there is a geological study, and that is what the government is aware of, which shows signs of earthquakes affecting the ground at the time determined by the legislation, so in Hungarian, the approved site permit complied with Hungarian legislation. We know that according to Russian law, a nuclear power plant could not be designed for such an area, so above an active fault line. My question is that there is a document that excludes this area from the point of view of earthquake security. I look forward to your reply, Minister. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-25-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Süli. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-10-25-97	Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! I can confirm that the plan wasn't rejected, it was returned by the authorities, but that it was still missing. In the first round, we submitted 283,000 approval plans, and then we are now at 410 thousand. This authority, if 15 months were not enough for it to clarify all the issues, should have a legitimate need and should always be given time to clarify the authority's questions during the preparatory phase rather than during the construction process. It is a much more expensive and costly solution, and it is difficult to modify the construction of a nuclear power plant on the way. That the Minister, Minister Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, what he has the right to do, his license, I do not want to discuss with you, otherwise we are in the background of daily consultation and day-to-day consultation on this issue, and I have also been outside the Russians, but I have not been given such publicity, but I do not want to be made public, but to solve professional problems. I can confirm that the issue of earthquake issues was carefully examined at the site permit, that part of the site authorisation was this issue, and that this issue was fully clarified with representatives of Hungarian scientific life and with international experts. There is more than 30 years of experience, since I-IV. Since then they have been introduced, and since then research and others have convinced both the licensor and us that the site has no such danger. I can explain that to you in more detail later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-98	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question:. When will the Hungarians return the house savings allowance they took? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for Finance with responsibility and competence. At the request of the Minister, Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, answers the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-99	Mr President, Dear House, We as right-wing representatives [[Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] we approach social problems from the point of view of the most important basic unit of society, the protection of the family. It is a shame and a shame that this will cause you to win, because we are talking about a form of family support that you have taken from Hungary. With state support for housing savings, many young people were able to collect their share of the CSOK, for example, but more than 80 percent of the condominiums had ltp, which made a simple boiler change available. In a few days, the government of Hungary stopped state support for housing savings with the promise to put something in its place. It is good that Minister Rogán is here, he mentioned the concept of housing lotto at the time, which could have replaced it. The thing is, none of this happened. In this way, the government does not essentially have a message for those who want to have children, but do not yet; for those who have children, but are already of age; or for those who would only renovate; or for those who do not have a share of their house loans. [[13.50]] Earlier in Hungary, these families were supported by hundreds of thousands by state support for housing savings. Now these families don't have support. We can also say that the CSOK, although I am not an enemy of the CSAK [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The faction leader!]] will reach very, very few of our countrymen compared to the number of people involved. All in all, Jobbik wants 100,000 families to receive at least a hundred thousand forints of support every year by restoring the state leg of housing savings. Our question is simple: did the Government of Hungary open this door, or did it destroy this form of family support, sprinkled its place with salt, and refuse to do anything at this point? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-25-100	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister András Tállai. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-101	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the form of housing fund support has been transformed. It has absorbed a disproportionate amount of budgetary resources in the State, but it has not been effective on the other side. The State has not taken anything, it has abolished state aid, it is still paying state aid for live contracts for up to ten years. Until September of this year, some HUF 40 billion has been paid, and another 20 billion will be paid for the housing savings allowance. Instead, the government has created a complex form of family home-building discount support, which has several elements that meet the needs of society to the full. I can back that up with the next one. In recent days, it has been revealed that the government's CSOK, support for family support, has been used by your party president, Péter Jakab. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: A serious professional argument! Don't be a professional. Peter James: I don't leave a forint at the wheel!]] And you, Dániel Z. Carpathian, have repeatedly stated that the CSOK can only be used by the pro-government staff. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't lie! I've never said that in my life!]] This turned out to be an obvious lie, for Peter James himself did not deny that every week he wanted to send members of the Fidesz government to prison, but he did use the support system they created. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: Shame! Shame!]] Well, that's Jobbik's policy. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What a communist you are!]] This duplicity, this lack of credibility. The party will be set up against Gyurcsány, and at the same time it will join forces with Gyurcsány, I don't know who. [[Zoltán Balczó: And he also uses social security!]] Dear Parliament, The CSOK system works, and it meets the demand of Hungarian society, here is the example behind me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-102	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. It's 1:54 p.m. to discuss immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. It is for Congressman Peter James.
u2021-10-25-103	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! Well, I read that you have another passion; what God gives you, it's too expensive. After the football and the small train, we have the stamp collection right now. Prime Minister, is the government spending 42 billion forints to buy stamps for itself? 42 billion? Is there gonna be an envelope, or is that in your pocket? Prime Minister, then I read that the government wants to continue building the Buda Castle for HUF 340 billion. Wow. Well, that's an innovation. CHAPTER XXI What are we doing in the middle of an economic crisis? We're building a castle. Prime Minister, how about we use this money to launch a public housing program? Or what if we let go of the fuel excise duty to make petrol and gasoline cheaper? Or what if we supported small businesses in distress during the crisis? Over the last year, 4 thousand small businesses have been destroyed in Hungary. That's 4,000 families, Prime Minister. There was no money for them? There was no money? Then I watch our hospitals rot on us in health care. And what do you do? He's borrowing money from the Asian Investment Bank to get the clinics back on loan! Prime Minister, I'm asking you seriously, how about we just leave your stamps in the fucking world for a change, and instead of credit, we're gonna refurbish the clinics out of this 42 billion? Or to say nothing else, in the Brussels recovery fund, Hungary is waiting for 6,000 billion HUF to improve health care and catch up on wages, but no, you don't need this money, because there is a certain rule of law mechanism here, so you can't steal it in Hungarian, so you'd rather take on the expensive Russian and Chinese loan. We understand: There is no legal requirement in the East, so you want to pocket this money, while under the title of Hungarian labour wage development you should be satisfied if your minimum wage is raised to HUF 133 thousand net, because you think this is the next step of economic development. Prime Minister, do you think you can live off 133,000 forints a month? Is it possible to start a family with that kind of money, raise a child, or just fuel the car? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-25-104	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-10-25-105	Your Honour, Mr. President. Two minutes is not enough to correct your factual errors to my fellow Member, so I call your attention only to two. The first is that money that is supposed to be waiting for us in the European Union is not a gift, it is a loan. You know, the better guys may not understand this, but the EU money you're talking about is a loan. The second mistake is linked to the postmark. We're dealing with the following problem. We want to give the postal workers a raise. The European Union does not allow the state to give money to the Posta, so that we can raise wages. It's forbidden by the Union. The only thing we can do is look for title, legally stop title, so we can give money to the Post Office, so that the Post Office can raise people's wages. What you're saying is not to raise the wages of postal workers. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] Do you know what you're talking about, ladies and gentlemen? [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: Shame!]] However, so much for mistakes. It happens when you're crossing the threshold of adulthood right now. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Simonka!]] Just like Jobbik just did, he's 18 years old. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Like Simonka! Where's Simonka?]] On this occasion, I read the founding statement of Jobbik. [[Noise.]] May I have your attention, please? The Jobbik writes to us in its evolution:. The post-communist left serves the interests of large capital, bankers and top ten thousand people without social sensitivity. The primary task before the Jobbik Hungary Movement is the Communist successor party [[Peter James: Fidesz!]] and the removal from political power of the extremist liberals joined with him. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] I remind you, my honourable fellow Member, that when you took over the leadership of Jobbik, Jobbik was the strongest opposition party. Today Ferenc Gyurcsány's party is the strongest opposition party. I congratulate you on your birthday that Jobbik has joined the alliance of Communist successor parties and liberals. Happy birthday. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-106	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-107	Prime Minister, do you understand Hungarian? [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] I asked you a very clear question. They're laughing, and there's nothing to laugh about. inflation is out of control, petrol prices are breaking records, food prices are skyrocketing, 500 forints is a liter of gas, don't drive me crazy, Prime Minister. Over the past year, food oil has become more expensive by 30 percent, margarine by 15 percent, potatoes by 10 percent, house prices have doubled, and you've been telling stories here, but 42 billion has been spent on stamp collections? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I don't know who he's gonna be looking at. I don't care. Prime Minister, answer my question. What I do know is that your family, based on the average of the last few years, manages at 180 million forints a month. You obviously know very well what 180 million a month is or is not enough for. I'm sure you'll have to do it very well. But does he also know what 133,000 forints a month is enough for? So I'm gonna ask you one more time. Do you think you can live off 133,000 forints a month? Can you raise a child from this, not in Spain, as your daughter does, but in Hungary? I'll be waiting for your answer, if you understand. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-25-108	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2021-10-25-109	There are problems of a nature that we cannot help. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] Anyway, since you've already joined the Communists, [[James Peter: We have not joined forces with you!]] I would like to remind you that when the Communists were on the government in 2010, the average wage was less than the minimum wage now, ladies and gentlemen. [[14.00]] We also know now that we have listened to you again that there is no circus without a clown [[James Peter: Then sit down.]] And on the Gyurcsány show, it's no different. We see that you are willing to play this role, but the fact is that this production was voted down by your audience even in the left-wing primary. And I would like to congratulate you on being honest and honest about how you managed to pick up the CSOK. Although you said earlier that we never did anything good to people, it seems that maybe we did. I'm glad we could help you and your family with this. [[James Peter: But how much could you steal? How much?]] I'll tell you in time, your new left-wing comrades are used to abolish these subsidies, of course, only after they've been accepted. [[Peter James: I'd like to pick up the soccer there too, how about this?]] So, between you and me, watch out for the Communists. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-110	Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What else can we expect? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-111	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, you cannot help noticing that you and your government have priced it, and you know very well that next spring, after the elections, two thirds of Fidesz will cease to exist. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Yes?]] They are very likely to know and are also preparing to fall out of government. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] To the satisfaction of this, you have begun to save the country's wealth and political power. What shows this better than the fact that during the Covid virus epidemic, in the second and third waves, when more than 30,000 of our countrymen died three times as many as in neighbouring Austria, you modified the Fundamental Law to save public money on private foundations, if you have mentioned it, by planting your most trusted comrades, billions of public goods, billions, pardons, unpacking, the castles, lands, and shares of public companies for a possible change of government. It is not possible to fail to notice that the two-thirds inseparability of the General Prosecutor is being brought before Parliament; it is not possible to fail to note that the President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority would rather be resigned, so that they can quickly appoint another person for nine years, depending on their plans, influencing the Hungarian media relations; and it cannot be overlooked that, in the mining issue that provides a very nice livelihood for your family, the Mining Authority will now be terminated and put in the Rogán's new prison office, where there are supervisions of traffikmuty, gambling and other matters, and then you will lose the opportunity to replace the next prime minister, if there is another one of your personal good friends, whom you have appointed, perhaps exone and another. Prime Minister, given your deep democratic commitment, we would like to ask you what similar plans you have in store for the next five to six months. Be kind enough to tell us what else we can do. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-10-25-112	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-10-25-113	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I suggest that we leave the election results to the voters. Maybe they deserve that much respect. As regards appointments and mandates, I would like to reiterate that, as always, we will continue to comply with the laws in force. You can't ask me to appoint socialists in important positions. [[Zoltán Balczó: We are only transforming the law. Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-114	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-115	Thank you for the floor. No wonder, Prime Minister, your answer was so short. First of all, I think that a country is crying back at its generous move when, after its first fall, only 12 state economies have been taken home as executive prime ministers. Today, they're carrying home not half the country, but all of it. This, of course, qualifies you; sooner or later, it will probably be legally. But what they do with public-law questions, with the power of appointment, with the power of the prime minister, or with any other matter like this: yes, Prime Minister, 49 percent of your party in the previous election, they tangled a two-thirds of Parliament's electoral system with this. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] but you have no right to rewrite these public law rules or even electoral rules before the election, because then, Prime Minister, this will seem like a coup for everyone, not just politically, but not surprisingly, if, even legally, after the election. Thank you for listening.
u2021-10-25-116	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2021-10-25-117	It's always dangerous for politicians to wander into the field of mathematics. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that we have won three times by two thirds, in addition to various electoral systems. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] But if you object to the fact that we received 49 percent absolute support for two thirds, what do you say that Gyula Horn received an absolute majority of 32.5 percent? Didn't that bother you? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! What a binge! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-118	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Anett Bősz, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant without a wallet to expand, "Do you mind the garbage dump you leave behind?" It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-25-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, If the opposition hadn't started to deal with it, perhaps the country still wouldn't have heard of the trash mountain in Tamási on Railway Street. A waste-processing contractor has piled up such a pile of garbage in the settlement that it can be seen from aerial footage, while the Fidesz city administration and the Tolna County Government Office spread their hands so that they can't do anything about it and they can't do anything about it. Meanwhile, the lease contract of the waste collection company was terminated by the owner of the site. So the people responsible for the case are disappearing along with the company, and the bastard is left behind. We are talking about thousands of cubic meters of plastic waste, which is said to be highly flammable by fire-fighting professionals, and they are extremely close to the homes whose inhabitants want only to be able to live in Tamási again without waste. We are talking about a stack of five meters tall, huge areas, which were intended to be used as rubber chips, but the infrastructure that could be used to shred garbage somehow did not arrive in Tamási. Storage does not comply with fire protection and environmental standards; of course it is extremely bad to be in the environment here. I have heard from you about Paks II, Minister, that you are so socialized in your own profession that if there is a problem, it must be discussed immediately. I'm saying that thousands of cubic meters of plastic waste are extremely flammable in the residential area, and that's an amazing problem. I'm asking you, who and when are you going to transport this waste, the primary business content of which was obviously taking it from the Italians. I don't know who's worth keeping in Tamási. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-10-25-120	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister János Süli will answer the immediate question. You have the floor, Minister.
u2021-10-25-121	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This question does not belong directly to me, but since Tamási belongs to District 3 as a representative, I know the problem. The question does not begin with the fact that we left our trash behind, but with private companies bringing it in in the hope that they will create work opportunities during processing. This is not dangerous, as the official inspection has also clearly stated that it is not hazardous waste, but waste, by the way, I agree with you. As early as April, the Department of Environment imposed a fine from the county government office that it was not properly stored. Since disaster control was not properly placed, he has exercised his right to fine himself. Technically, the one-year period is now running out, because the legislation states that if the company does not start its activities within a year, the return can be enforced. This coercion begins on October 16. So everyone's prepared that if the return is not started by the contractor, the return will be enforced. The principle is that the person who brought in the waste should pay the cost and do the work in this regard. All actors in the government insist on this, both the Tamás municipality and the county government office. [[14.10]] So I trust that next time we can tell you that the return of this bastard has begun, and we will finish it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-122	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's for a rejoinder from the congresswoman.
u2021-10-25-123	Thank you, Minister, for your professional and exhaustive reply. I've been informed of the fact of the fine myself. I called attention to the fact that since then the contract with the garbage company has been terminated, because in this sense the fear of the inhabitants of Tamási is justified that the entrepreneurs who you have just spoken about will simply disappear hairily. I trust, by the way, and obviously, the timing of the question is the reason for today's day, that we have passed this one year, which you have said. I trust that by then our closest dialogue will be about these entrepreneurs removing the garbage to the greatest relief of the inhabitants of Tamás. I also hope that the administrative authorities will not make any further mistakes, since it is clear that it was a technical mistake to allow this garbage to be stored in such a way, both in terms of environmental protection and disaster management. Thank you again for your professional response. I trust the best script.
u2021-10-25-124	Thank you. I'll give the floor to the Minister in return. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-10-25-125	Thank you, and I would also like to say that it is a special pleasure for me that we have not now been working on the design of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. [[Defiance.]] We have dealt with the fact that we, who are accustomed to order, cleanliness, waste management in the nuclear power plant, are a very important issue, so in the case of a civil society organisation, another city, we can also explain the work that is being done to reassure the population. But I repeat, from the outset, as you have noticed, the issue does not turn out as it was said in the permits, you have done the work that can be done at this time, and since it is a law, they also have to observe, and the necessary time must be waited according to the law, but we have also confronted the people of Tamás, and we have tried to reassure them that this time matters from now on, as I said, from the 16th. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-126	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor.
u2021-10-25-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I hope I will not disappoint Minister Süli by asking the Prime Minister about Paks' case. Prime Minister, you have recently sent a message from Brussels that you have never, in particular, said from Moscow that we are not retreating. Obviously, you can do it in Brussels to contradict it, but we don't see it in Moscow. Obviously, the issues that determine Hungary's fate must be decided by us Hungarian people, but I hope we agree that the issue of nuclear safety, the spending of thousands of billions of forints, the taking of Russian loans, the use of them here, the Hungarian people must make decisions, and perhaps we can also agree that the Hungarian people and Hungary must also make the decision on what we allow the Russians in Hungary and what they do not. Obviously, we will not agree on how to judge nuclear energy. We say that nuclear power is not cheap, it is not green and it is not safe, but even if the debate is put aside, we can say that there are huge problems with your Russian Paks II project. It's not long since authorisation failed on the deadline. Péter Szijjártó was immediately assigned to Moscow, the centre of Rosatom, where the Minister said that he would discuss the project schedule there. We do not agree on this anymore, Minister, we believe that decisions should be taken in Hungary on this project, by informing the Hungarian people, which is why I am asking you my questions, Prime Minister. Why are you hiding the grounds for rejecting the Russian authorisation file? How does the government see that it's going to be allowed to project Paks II on the basis of the Russian design documentation? Vane and what is the political pressure of the Russians to issue the permit as soon as possible? What kind of secret service is being carried out by the Russians, and it is true that they have drawn attention to corruption related to the investment. And a very important question is that the permit has failed, there is no license, yet you have allowed the contractor to start digging up the huge pit. Who will take the risk here, the Russian contractor or the Hungarian taxpayers? Thank you in advance for your answers.
u2021-10-25-128	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-10-25-129	I am honoured that in a matter in which we have not come to terms with each other as a result of a long-term debate in Parliament, we are now trying to do this in two minutes. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I would like to argue with you, if necessary, on nuclear matters, but let me tell you that it would be more worthwhile if you did this to Minister Süli instead. After all, we have asked perhaps the best nuclear energy specialist in the country to be a minister, to have a political responsibility for this whole programme, so that such debates as you are now initiating can be debated calmly, intelligently, on a professional basis. But if you've asked me that question, I'll, of course, say what I think about it. The first is that, in fact and factually, no authority has rejected anything, there must be some misunderstanding. Secondly, Hungary is a sovereign country, we also act against everyone, also east and west; we are Hungarianists, if you will. The third thing is that without nuclear power there is no climate protection and no global policy to reduce CO2 emissions. Either we accept nuclear energy, and then there is a green future, or we do not accept nuclear energy, but then we cannot lead the power plants producing CO2 emissions out of the European and, I think, the world economy. And I'm going to ask you specifically, not to dismiss your right to always say what you want to say and ask what you want, but there is a context in which all this is happening. At this moment in Brussels, we are fighting a very serious battle. Now, exceptionally, not only Central Europeans and Western Europeans are facing each other, but also several Western European countries, such as the French. This fight is about the possibility of supporting the construction and operation of nuclear power plants with or without EU money as part of climate protection, so that we can fight. This would be good for the Hungarians. I ask you to express your criticism in such a way that the chances of Hungarians in Brussels are not reduced. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-130	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. It's for rejoinder, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-131	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. We use our speeches, our criticisms to be heard not only in Brussels, but also in Moscow and Beijing, which we miss from the government. Prime Minister, you have often referred to Finland, there is a project running in parallel, but you can see that there is already a 12-year delay in authorising a similar or identical Russian reactor, but, unlike the Hungarian government, the Finnish Government believes in transparency and informs the Hungarian population. [[Interventions from the ranks of the governing parties: Hungarian?]] I repeat my question: why not inform the Hungarian public about the main reason for the non-approval or the failure of the permit? And another important question has been raised here, Prime Minister. Here, based on the fact that there is a visible, insane delay in this project, many years ago, has the government come up with a further extension of the existing blocks? We know that in the last three years, there have been 21 times in the last three years that there have been a malfunctioning event in the existing blocks. You have come up with a further extension of operational time, contrary to what Parliamentary Secretary Kaderjak said earlier, that this cannot be an option. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-25-132	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2021-10-25-133	It is true that you are right that there must be a great deal of struggle to meet imaginary and planned deadlines, that is a matter of fact. We are talking about very complicated technical documentation with hundreds of thousands of pages. The construction of all nuclear installations in the world is constantly struggling with deadlines problems, and Hungarians are no exception, but Minister Süli and I are working on trying to keep the deadlines. The question of when we inform the population is being asked for the 216th time, and Minister Süli and I are happy to answer all the questions on a regular basis. The reason we're not doing the block extension right now is because we want to build new blocks. I know that there are many kinds of interests in the background at this time, in an investment of this amount, it is absolutely natural, and indeed, there are many kinds of technology in the world, if not so much, but four or five of which can be chosen if a country wants to make such an investment. So did we, when we made the basic decision, we watched these. But trust me, we don't want to open a new site, so we don't want to build a nuclear power plant outside of Paks. And there's a Russian-type power plant in Paks, and we're not willing to risk running two different technologies in one place in parallel, because that's gonna be a problem. Therefore, if we want nuclear power, it must necessarily be Russian. We made the right decision, we made the right decision, and I hope we can keep the deadlines. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-134	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda. [[14.20]]
u2021-10-25-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Tomorrow will be a hundred days after the Pegasus scandal started, which was about using spy software to monitor smartphones against Hungarian citizens; a spy software that could only be used against terrorists and organized criminals. Compared to this, the Fidesz government has observed hundreds of innocent civilians, including journalists, lawyers, honest entrepreneurs, opposition politicians, and even its own politicians, who can be assumed to be led not by party loyalty but, where appropriate, by professional interests. Mr. Orbán! Tomorrow you'll have a hundred days to sneak around, distract, lie about it. You were the last person to encrypt the case documents until 2050. Mr. Orbán! Now gather your courage and answer three simple questions directly and honestly. The first question is, did you use Pegasus spy software against civilians to intimidate and blackmail them? The second question is, do you think you can get away with this without consequences, do you see that there are no personal implications for Pegasus' deployment, illegal wiretaps? Thirdly, are you continuing illegal wiretaps? Mr. Orbán! If he doesn't give a meaningful answer, if he tries to be witty again, drives or turns into a counterattack, then we'll consider it a silence, so we'll consider it a confession. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So if you don't give us a definite "no" answer, we'll go on by saying that you answered all three questions with "yes." So, accordingly, we look forward to your reply. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Did you answer your own question? An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-10-25-136	Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that I have called you a representative, and that is the custom in this House. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister will answer the immediate question. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2021-10-25-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, The most important thing in this case is that the Minister of the Interior has accepted your invitation to the meeting of the Parliament's National Security Committee and has left, answering questions. More than he said there, I can't tell you today. I repeat the statement made by the Minister of the Interior at the committee meeting that no illegal secret service activity has ever taken place in Hungary since 2010. [[A voice from Jobbik's ranks: Whoo!]] Thirdly, I would like to make it clear to you that no one's profession matters to the services. They don't look at people by profession. Whether you're a bishop or a street sweeper, you're looking at the fact that the activity you're carrying on can affect some national security aspect, and if you're involved, you're acting in accordance with the law. That's the rule. That's what we've been following. That's what we're gonna do. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-138	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. In return, the congressman has the floor.
u2021-10-25-139	Well, we'll take that as a yes to all three questions. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The obvious lie that everything happened legally, no one takes it seriously for a moment, maybe even this 133 pusher. Today another scandal broke out that Peter Márki-Zay was also being watched [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] and documents on this were handed over to DK in the hope that they would use it, but they had to be disappointed, because the opposition's unity is much stronger than that, even if they try to drive a wedge between us. [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] One of the smart guys also admitted to the fact that Fidesz is running enemy management. I understand that you see as an enemy all those who expose their corrupt system, who expose their yachting, private flights, the theft of thousands of billions of public money, but these people are only your enemies, our allies. You are also very wrong, Prime Minister, that there will be no consequences, because next spring in the election, Hungarian people will also judge this and drink it, and rest assured. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-10-25-140	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2021-10-25-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, We pay due respect to your enthusiasm for another candidate every three weeks here at the plenary session of Parliament. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Obviously, this show is part of the Gyurcsány show. What I would like to remind you, however, is that you are now in an alliance with those who had been listening to opposition politicians before 2010, have been carrying out illegal surveillance and the Russians have been allowed into the Hungarian secret service's workshops. [[Intruder from the Fidesz line: Cut! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intruder from Fidesz:...whom do you work for?]]
u2021-10-25-142	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Bajkai wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "How are the 2006 damages cases? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On Saturday, we remembered the heroes who fought for free Hungary in 1956, sacrificing their blood, as part of a worthy, peaceful, elevated, patriotic ceremony. In addition, we commemorated our innocent fellow civilian citizens who suffered injury during the 2006 police officers conducted by the spiritual heirs of Ernő Gerő, János Kádár, Antal Apró. Fifteen years ago, with water cannons, tear gas, horse raids, and rubber bullets, the peacefully celebrating crowd that wanted to change and who wanted to get rid of the government that swindled and damaged them were unlawfully disbanded. It is regrettable, however, that the left, which breaks a spear every day in addition to democracy, is today led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, who, by way of far overstepping the instruments of the rule of law, pushed the arm's power to gross excesses in 2006. But what is even sadder is that the parties in Ferenc Gyurcsány's pocket are also trying to meet him. Just think of recent violent actions, strangulation, threats, and the closest ally of Péter Márki-Zay, Gergely Christmas called it a condition of constitutional peace to cease the Fidesz, including the Fidesz voters. It is clear, therefore, that without any legitimate means, the left is now threatening not only by dismantling the framework provided by the Fundamental Law without two thirds and by imposing state leaders without legal proceedings, citing the 1950s, but also by eliminating democratically functioning parties and voters. Mátyás Rákosi would be proud of them. In contrast to the left, the national government is on the side of the people, as since 2010 it has been continuing to pay compensation to victims of brutal mass dispersal 15 years ago. That's why I respectfully ask the secretary [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] How you stand, Secretary of State, and I'm addressing the question to Madam Secretary. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: It's written down!]] the 2006 damages lawsuits. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-144	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister Pál Völner, Minister of State, granted the right to reply because of his absence. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-10-25-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In 2010, the newly formed Parliament had a debt to compensate and compensate the victims of the Gyurcsány terrorist in the autumn of 2006. This is why the 33/2010 parliamentary decision provided for compensation for the damage suffered by or in connection with police actions between 17 September and 25 October 2006. Until 2013, the police paid 110 million forints, and the Hungarian State Treasury paid 270 million forints of compensation. In addition, there were 173 injured cases in Strasbourg. By the way, NGOs that like to sue the Hungarian State in Strasbourg have never represented the Hungarian citizens who have suffered their grievances as a result of the terror of Gyurcsány, either by the Helsinki Committee or by Amnesty International, or by the Company for Freedom Rights. [[14.30]] In 2017, an agreement was reached with 120 victims, in which we reached an agreement on compensation amounting to EUR 300 thousand. After that, some 53 cases of injured persons who had other legal representatives remained, and therefore the agreement was not reached at the time. This has recently been cured, since a new government decision has been taken, in which we have already reached more than 30 victims, and the amount has been paid, while the others have been notified and the agreement is being concluded, if possible. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-146	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-147	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I just want to say that I thank the Hungarian Government very much for doing all that a rule of law must do, namely, that the grievances must be rectified. Undoubtedly, everything the Gyurcsány-attak has done in this country is, in fact, a complete denial of democracy. This cannot happen in the rule of law. In the rule of law, no government can attack its own citizens. I am convinced, and I think that I am not alone with this opinion in this House, and indeed in society as a whole, that the attack on Gyurcsány, the system of instruments that he has used, was a complete denial of the rule of law, in fact, the rule of law was suspended. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-148	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-149	Thank you for the floor. We all know that in 2006 Ferenc Gyurcsány gained power with lies, won the elections. We also know that he held power by force during the fall of 2006. We also know that you've brought this country into economic ruin and chaos, and that's what you've fallen for. What's interesting is that you've always served foreign powers unconditionally. I note: In the autumn of 2006, one rule of law procedure was not initiated against Hungary, the LIBE committee did not visit here, and the organisations I have just listed did not make their voice heard so vividly in this Soros world, under which we are now suffering. Overall, we must learn that we can never allow ourselves to have a left-wing government of the country that is fully willing to ignore the norms of the rule of law. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-150	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Brussels would tax the Hungarian people on the grounds of climate protection. Why? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Minister of State the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I accept.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As you know, in Europe, with the exception of Hungary, there is an energy crisis, even though the EU has not yet solved the migration crisis and the economic crisis caused by the coronal virus. Brussels has also caused this crisis with its irresponsible, mistimed actions, unthinkable and hastened energy reform and failed policy. Brussels refers to climate protection on the road and therefore violently cuts down traditional energy production in Europe, putting European citizens' energy security and affordable overhead costs at risk. The Hungarian solution once again stood the test of time, despite domestic and foreign attacks, there is a reduction of the overhead. It protects the Hungarian population to pay twice or even eight times as much for electricity and gas as elsewhere in Europe. The Hungarian energy policy also works, the four pillars of which were born for the benefit of the Hungarian people, and all four are also attacked by the Hungarian left: the reduction of electricity, nuclear energy, the long-term gas agreement and the strengthening of green energy. For us, energy is not a political issue; it is a matter of sovereignty, nation strategy and security. Only Gyurcsány and his band, Márki-Zay, Dobrev, Christmas, James and Fekete-Győr make it a political issue, in submission to the plans in Brussels, who want to pin the costs of the energy crisis and the fight against climate change on the Hungarian households and families. They have been constantly increasing their overhead costs before, which is what they would do now. In the past, national-owned utility companies have been sold at a lower price, and that is all they would do now. If we were to return to the market price regulation preferred by the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government before 2010, then an average Hungarian family would spend approximately HUF 32 thousand a month more on rent. This would add 384 thousand forints per year to an average Hungarian family. Klára Dobrev said that the reduction did not happen, that he became left-wing, and then Peter James failed badly, and said that the reduction of the rent was a fraud of the century. Don't believe them, they're lying today. Secretary of State, how are we doing on the rent-a-fight? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-152	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There has been a serious debate on the issue of energy prices in Europe, and the stakes are the preservation and protection of the results of the Hungarian reduction. The fact is that Europe has not experienced high energy prices for a long time, the price of natural gas has increased by 400 percent compared to a year ago, and the price of electricity has doubled. In the meantime, Brussels is pursuing an unthinkable energy policy to destroy the European middle class, to destroy the European economy and to destroy European competitiveness. It is also clear that the European Commission's activity raises energy prices, the signs of which are already visible and the plans will lead to further price increases. Honourable Congressman, Apart from Hungary, there is a rise in overhead prices everywhere, energy prices are twice or three times higher in Austria and Germany than in Hungary. In addition, Brussels is also preparing to tax Hungarian and European families with a complex system. Based on climate change, they want to force more taxes on us, on families that have an apartment or even a car. This is an open attack, an open attack, Congressman, against the reduction of Hungarian overhead. The Hungarian government therefore rejects the plans of the bureaucrats in Brussels and we are committed to protecting the results of the reduction of the rent. This is where the Hungarian people confirmed us, when 99 percent of the fillers agreed with our position in the context of the national consultation. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-154	Thank you, Deputy Minister. In return, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-155	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. According to a study carried out by the European Commission, Hungary has been able to reduce the share of the households concerned among the Member States of the European Union to the greatest extent in both key indicators of energy poverty since the introduction of the reduction. It is a great achievement, which we also need to protect. Péter Márki-Zay, the newest Gyurcsány-serpa, also put faith in the wrong solution to the Hungarian people's wallet, as he said that in the long term only market processes are the only sustainable solution. This would mean nearly HUF 400,000 a year in extra expenses to Hungarian families. Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP fraction will support the government in the fight against climate tax, we must resist and protect the reduction of the rent from the plans of Brussels and the Hungarian left. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-156	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, During left-wing governance, there was a 15-time increase in overhead, the price of gas was increased by 206 percent and its electricity increased by 97 percent, while in recent years, during civil national governance, overhead costs have not increased but decreased. But in the meantime, the left played the utility companies into the hands of the foreigners and allowed these companies to make up for the fees they had taken from the Hungarian families. It is no coincidence that during the governance of the left, Hungarian families paid the most for gas and electricity in the European Union. Meanwhile, what is most shameful, Ferenc Gyurcsány's own company was officially granted preferential electricity purchase. It's pretty amazing. We're not gonna let this era come back, we're gonna protect the results of the reduction. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2021-10-25-158	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-25-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, In the last three weeks, fuel prices have risen six times in Hungary, with another increase on Wednesday the day after tomorrow, and fuel prices are already record high in Hungary. I first dealt with this issue three weeks ago. At the time, I asked the government to increase the cost of working, namely the current 15 HUF/km fee to 30 HUF, helping employers, but mainly employees. I submitted a proposal for a decision on this, but no reply has been received since then. A week ago, I asked the government to freeze it because of record high fuel prices, and, as you said in May 2004, in such a situation, at such a high fuel price, the government and the state are obviously profiting from fuel prices, and therefore a drastic reduction of 20 per cent of excise duty is required. No response has been received. Gergely Gulyás, however, said last week at the Government Info, that they were monitoring the increase in fuel prices. Well, thank you very much, it might take a little more than that. He also stated that there was nothing the government could do. Prime Minister, in Croatia, the government has frozen the price of fuel for 30 days. All this has been done to protect the national economy, economic growth and to curb the release of food prices. As an explanation, they also say that fuel prices are high across Europe. This is true, however, it is not the weak Hungarian forint that has to be paid in Europe, especially in Western Europe, and the average salary is not as much as it is in Hungary. In Hungary, 298,000 forints are net, which is difficult for people to interpret in rural areas, because often in a family this amount does not flow, and in Austria, you call it a lab, 986,000 forints. With all due respect, Prime Minister, the government is willing to help workers by supporting the cost of going to work, the government is willing to freeze the price of fuel, and is willing, as you mentioned in 2004, to reduce excise duty drastically. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-25-160	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-10-25-161	Thank you very much. The fact is that there is a pricing system in Hungary that automatically reduces taxes in the case of higher petrol and gas oil. This happened in April, and the prices went back for a while, and then they jumped again. So unfortunately, in addition to, or in addition to, a number of proposals worth considering, we cannot interpret and accept that a reduction in the rate of taxation would lead to a sustained reduction in fuel prices. That's not true. Temporarily, yeah, and then he jumps again. Because of what you said, because there's speculation. That's why it makes sense for you to suggest why we don't take a more radical step, which means price freeze. It is no coincidence that they dare to do so temporarily elsewhere, because freezing prices is a step from which it is very difficult to come back, and there are mixed mechanisms of action with it in the economy, and if we do not monitor it well in advance, we may cause more damage than we are profiting. But we're not ruling this out. We're constantly looking at how prices are going. Otherwise, the price of petrol in the European Union is around HUF 700-800, so we are afraid that there may even be further growth in Hungary; the situation may arise when your proposal is worth considering and a radical step towards freezing. I suggest you don't rule that out, but let's not use it yet. However, let us take all other steps necessary to bear this burden. Let us support workers, for example, and raise the minimum wage, because if there is more wages, people can bear higher prices. So we're trying to use the tools that can be used. But while this is an important issue, I would like to point out that this is not close to our struggle to keep the cost of fuel at a level, because the real problem will not be because fuel prices are increasing. This is also a burden, but the real problem for families would be if the overhead were to be released. We are fighting huge battles in Brussels in this regard. I respectfully ask you to support me in this fight, especially in order not to have to accidentally close the Mátra Force, because that point would have unbearable consequences for your constituents. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-162	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I think that we can both agree, and we have the same opinion, that the current fuel price is still likely to go up, according to prognostication, but is already unsustainable, endangering the growth of the national economy, and which we are not talking about can affect the price of every single commodity, from food, vegetable and fruit to building materials. So if anyone has the opportunity to do so, it is the Hungarian government. In order to ensure that this step does not take place later, but as soon as possible, we have launched a petition in which we are trying to put pressure on the Hungarian government and we are asking you to freeze the price of fuel and reduce excise duty. There were a number of statements on your part in 2004-2005 when they said that if the price of the oil per barrel reaches $40, it is a psychological limit. Now 70. They said that if the price of fuel goes above HUF 250, we need to intervene, we need to reduce excise duty, now more than 500. Prime Minister, it's time to act! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-25-164	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2021-10-25-165	Of course, we also welcome the pressure exercise, but you can see that we have exactly the same mind as yours. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that if we move too early to freeze prices, because the Union only allows us to do so temporarily, and after a month, the price freeze must be stopped, but the prices have gone up, there is a rise compared to the frozen price that really cannot be tolerated by families. So I suggest we talk calmly and calmly about this matter. All means can be used, and this issue must be dealt with intelligently. We are also open to all opposition proposals, by the way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-166	Thank you very much for the Prime Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] Yeah. You have the floor. [[There's a lot of noise. Several congressmen are leaving the room.]] Before you begin your speech, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber, to do so quietly and in as short a time as possible. Thank you for your understanding. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-10-25-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I regret that neither Minister nor Prime Minister nor colleagues are interested in this issue. I would like to talk about what I was talking about last week and what my fellow Member was saying, after I asked him why there are such long waiting lists in Hungary about cancer. I'd like to read some letters. If you go, you'll have to wait months for tests. It's all a lie, Mr. Secretary. At the beginning of the year, my family member was diagnosed with pancreatic malignancies, no medication, no treatment, because Covid is. The screening was delayed, the time of surgery was delayed twice. You don't know that or you don't want to know? An appointment must also be made. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You know, Mr Secretary, last week you said that even in France there were no surgeries, while in Hungary all cancer patients could have access to the treatment and surgery they needed during Covid. You know, Mr. Secretary, what we're talking about is that if the patient doesn't get to the screening, if he can't get to the basic tests, because even the appointment has to be made, the patient doesn't even get to the point of getting diagnosed, that he's a cancer patient, let alone the surgery. You know, Secretary of State, we see very bad indicators in Hungary year after year due to the number of cancer patients and death of cancer. I think it's true what the profession and the scientific organisations say, that about 15-20 percent fewer cancer patients were introduced into the system because of the Covid epidemic itself and the bad shutdowns, although you said last spring, you were one of the biggest advocates of this, that the screenings had to be stopped because of the stress of health care. We only object to how these 5,000 patients will return or even get to the perspective of the health system, because if months go by, six months, and a year goes by, these patients will be irretrievable. Secretary of State, what are you doing to speed up these screening tests and finally get these patients where they can be saved? I'm waiting for your answer. [[14.50]]
u2021-10-25-168	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, This is an important issue, since many people have lost their loved ones to cancer, so it is important that everyone receives the right care during the epidemic and in the post-pest period. Let's look at the facts, the numbers. You were talking about estimates and numbers that I don't know where the basis for the calculation is. This is a matter of people's lives, of extremely serious diseases. You can't be alarmed, Congresswoman, by the numbers you get, that somewhere, at some conference, you've heard something, but you don't tell me the calculations of that, you're just saying numbers. Allow me to state the facts on this subject. Last year was indeed a very difficult year for health care, since everyone had to focus on the coronal virus epidemic, but last year, in 2020, there were 3.1 percent more clinical oncological care cases than in 2019 when there was no coronal virus epidemic. You're saying that fewer people were treated, and I'm saying that it's 3.1 percent more, and that's supported by case numbers. What makes you say that someone wouldn't have received or received mass care? I also ask you very much not to confuse screening with care and care for specific patients. I have just claimed to you that there has been an increase in specific patient care, so there has been no such loss of capacity. Madam Member, the National Institute of Oncology has been exempted from the care of patients with a coronal virus epidemic, precisely so that cancer patients can continue to be treated in the same way. Why do you say that the Institute of Oncology did not treat patients during the epidemic when the National Institute of Oncology was exempted from disease management? The fact that in the planned public health screening, not in the treatment of patients, but in the screening of healthy-looking people, what and how it was done: indeed, there were two months and then three weeks when, during the most serious epidemic, we said that these people should not meet there, nor elsewhere, since other such planned benefits were delayed, but the screenings were also delayed, so that people would not be infected. But in England, these screening tests have been suspended for more than two times for six months, honourable Member. Compared to this, Hungary is only a fraction of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-170	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. In return, I'll give the floor to the congresswoman in a minute.
u2021-10-25-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, Secretary of State, if you don't accept what has already been said at the conference of the profession, there is a very big problem with you. We've got a big problem. If the profession claims that 15 to 20 percent of patients in a year did not get into the system with so many patients every year before that, then there is a very big problem with you. Then they don't want to see the reality that we know they really don't want to see. You know, Mr. Secretary, when we were in the middle of the epidemic, people felt that they didn't want to see a doctor, but it wasn't their fault because they were afraid of the plague. They're locked in. And maybe there's someone who's been locked up for a year, even though he knows he's sick. You know, Mr. Secretary, at least sometimes you can see reality, sense and acknowledge it. Anyone who didn't get in for a screening test, who didn't get in for a doctor-patient meeting, because it's impossible to make an appointment for a doctor's appointment doesn't have a chance of being discovered. I told you last week about the waiting lists in Hungary, Mr. Secretary of State. At least once in a while, get inside and talk about what's real. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-10-25-172	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister in return. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-173	Thank you very much. The question of every disease is a painful subject, especially the issue of cancer, because I think that there is no Hungarian person who has not lost a relative, relative, parents, grandparents, great parents, someone close to it. That is why I find it extremely dangerous when you are trying to scare me on the left with precisely such questions, or when your fellow Member, Lajos Korózs, claimed that people from hospitals were sent home unduly and nine out of ten people died. You're building on this! When we are all afraid of disease, cancer is one of the most feared, because it is a very likely cause of death for a good couple, you will build any alarming campaign on this, the honourable Member, who is not humanly acceptable; moreover, the people working in health care have done everything they can. As soon as the outbreak was over, the screenings started again. These screenings have to be done every two or three years, and here we can talk about three weeks and two months, which can then be done with additional resources. You know very well that you intended zero forints for the waiting list reduction program, and we spent 12 billion forints on this at the end of the epidemic. And I also have to tell you that we could rather acknowledge those doctors, the nurses who provided clarification tests after the non-negative screening results during the period of the epidemic. If someone in the screening study found out during the epidemic that they had no negative results, and they still need two more steps to make sure that they were in danger of their health or not, they did so during the epidemic. Hats off to the Hungarian health workers! They shouldn't be attacked, like you're doing right now, but they should admit that they did everything they could during the plague and after the epidemic to catch up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-174	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Who really stands behind the funding of the campaign of Márki-Zay?" It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2021-10-25-175	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2021-10-25-176	Yeah. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-177	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Although Péter Márki-Zay is campaigning to represent the people who do not want to let go of the period before 2010, it is clear that he is the puppet of the left, a tool through whom Ferenc Gyurcsány would return to power. This campaign is certainly supported by people whose identities you don't want to reveal by accident. I think the question we all rightly ask is, how does a candidate without a party cover his campaign expenses? Suddenly, the tens of millions needed for the rally are available, not to mention the incredible amount of media spending. Márki-Zay said that he would enter the 99 Movement of Gergely Christmas, which financed the Mayor's campaign, which, however, never published where he had the money to do so, which one unwittingly thought of the Soros network. Well, it's not just the amount of money we're talking about. Márki himself claimed that Christmas spent 500 million forints on his presidential candidate campaign, but he denies knowing where this money came from. In fact, the opposition candidate for Prime Minister is also deeply silent about who his supporters really are, who finances his campaign. One of the main tasks of the Christmas movement is to fundraisers, so it could use foreign resources from the Soros network for its own campaign. The question arises: if Márki-Zay joins the 99 Movement, will his campaign also be supported by the Soros organisations? In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State who is really behind the financing of the campaign of Márki-Zay. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-178	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go.
u2021-10-25-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Now that Bence Tordai has finished listening, it's safe to talk, even though I'd like to say the same things without it. It is clear that left-wing billionaires support and support this entire pre-election farce, circus, and apparently support Marqui-Zay as well. Let's not be so naive. Márki-Zay said that Christmas spent 500 million on his campaign, while I said 20 million, and then when Christmas was offended, he withdrew it and just said it was an expert estimate. Well, let me tell the experts and the great experts that the country was full of advertisements, obviously this was also a few million forints. And we see that the country was full not only of Marqui-Zay and not only of the unfortunate posters of Gergely Christmas, but also of the media. It was full of travels, and this is also interesting with left-wing travels discovered by each other, when they paid to Gypsy people or to others during the elections. So it was a lot of things. And if a network was actually built for counting votes, which is a big issue, then it was not two forints, it is estimated that many millions of forints. And let's also consider that on the M3 there was an accident of a luxury BMW that was reportedly driven by a man near Márki-Zay and had ballots and 18 million forints. It would be interesting if there were 18 million cars on the M3 in general. It would be a pretty good income for the country if everyone had that kind of money. So I'm sure the billionaire left has moved huge sums of money and supported this campaign. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2021-10-25-180	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2021-10-25-181	Indeed, there are a lot of suspicious circumstances as to where the left is financing the primary campaign, and where Márki-Zay is financing the campaign, which he apparently carried through the whole country with a huge chinnadrat, with cars, experts and huge logistics. That took a lot of money. He's always fooling voters. This was seen this weekend, but it was hardly possible, because at first they said that Kodály had been lying to the protesters, because they had organized a protest, not a memorial, but it turned out on the drone footage that it was not up to the Kodály circle, but a few thousand people were just curious about the thoughts of the world-changing Peter Márki-Zay. It may also be because many people realize that they claim to be right-wing, but they are actually the left-wing man, who actually supports migration, actually wants to regulate fees on a market basis, which would lead to higher fees. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel.]] and eliminate the family support that my fellow Member has just praised, it would also stop because he is a real left-wing man, Gyurcsány, who supports him from behind. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-182	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Behind the back benches, Z. Karpát turned towards Daniel and Tibor Nunkovics:]] Before the Secretary of State begins his reply, I ask you, Congressman, to please take your seats or choose the other option. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-183	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't mind in particular, but, Congressman, as long as you asked, you were yelled at by the good guys. [[Z. Kárpát Daniel takes his place as his representative.]] That's why it's interesting. It's a nice connection. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't lie!]] because by finishing the previous line of thought, the man, László Barta, who broke his BMW on the M3 was previously in the USA with Péter Márki-Zay, Zoltán Kész, prepared and trained together. And who is he now, this man? Jobbikos is a organizer in northern Hungary. Anyway, he's such a busy guy, he's so busy, he's with a BMW 6, which is now 23 million forints. Congratulations, so just keep yelling, Congressman. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: This is what you will get when you lie, every time!]] But what you said [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are a lying communist!]] Their task is clear, and that's why the left-wing billionaires are pushing them to support migration, it's clear that Gyurcsány will be supported, to re-destruct the country to international capital, and together with Jobbik, who have now become an extreme left-wing party, try to join forces with them. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Talk about settlement bonds! How much did you get?]] We see your success this weekend. Congratulations. Shout, Congressman, continue. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] You've found great partners. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-184	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, spoke with the title of our city, Pécs. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-185	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I don't know, Secretary Soltes is still here... [[Intercoms: Microphone! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Liar Communist! Liar Bolshevik!]] Maybe now? Good.
u2021-10-25-186	Then there's volume, yes.
u2021-10-25-187	Great. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must take a brief reaction here to the interesting dialogue that we have just heard, that here a secretary of state criticized the opposition, the opposition which did not speak here, while speaking to a pro-government representative. Allow me so much about migration, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are the ones who, contrary to their previous rhetoric, have allowed 20,000 people into the Rogán settlement bonds. You are the ones who hinder the main causes of migration, the fight against climate change, and, by the way, you were the ones who, along with my city, Pécs, wanted to build in 2015 a temporary reception camp for Martonfa, which the local population and our protests could not only do by protesting opposition representatives. That's it in parentheses. Indeed, in my speeches after the agenda, I usually talk about the situation of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, of a specific or general nature. Now I have a small success to report, and I am happy to report on a small success, which, at the same time, highlights a very, very serious system problem, even in itself. I have spoken many times about the fact that the government has been incompetent here for the last 11 years to pursue a meaningful struggle to eradicate illegal landfills, and despite the fact that about two years ago the Prime Minister personally promised to do so. But we can see that the government is inadequate, the legislative environment is bad, the authorities are not given sufficient powers. But they do not want to face this, so the problems have not shifted in a better direction, but are deepening and these illegal landfills are increasing. However, I have often talked about such settlements in Pécs and Baranya in my speeches after the agenda and how we have tried to eliminate them. In one of the most remarkable cases, however, I can now report a result. In December 2019 a truck of several tons of plastic waste from Italy was unloaded between Komló and Manfa in a municipal-owned area without any authorisation. Thus, the use of municipal land alone was not authorised, nor was it allowed for waste management. So all the written and unwritten rules that exist here have been broken by the perpetrators. This is where the crime took place, the report was immediately filed, but the solution was waiting for you. I can tell you that I myself have searched for the authorities, and here after more than a year of investigation, we can say that in this completely black and white case, the authorities have not been able to punish the perpetrator, they have not been able to establish a crime, which clearly shows that the legislative environment is bad. But so far, until the last few days, there has been no meaningful action to eliminate the landfill. I myself, as I have already mentioned, have repeatedly gone to the authorities, to the police, and I have tried to gather all the information. Finally, a few months ago, I personally went to Mr. István György, Secretary of State, to discuss this, so that we could at least find a solution from the government office's side. Finally, the solution, at least to this problem, to this particular problem, was born, as the government office commissioned the specialized company of the municipality of Pécs to eliminate this illegal landfill. This problem has finally been solved, in this way, through joint intervention and joint action. But we can see that this delay has very serious consequences, since for nearly two years the wind practically carried it free, and the rain also washed this waste in all directions. So for now, the consequences of this have been so slow to eliminate this landfill, not to mention that we are nowhere near being sufficiently accountable to those responsible and receiving the appropriate penalties. Once again, what has been said a great deal by the members of the government and the representatives of the government has failed to prevail is that the polluter has to pay in such cases. We also haven't faced it, or the government side hasn't faced why the authorities are powerless, why they can't act, and how, where appropriate, cases such as Tamási's case, mentioned during today's meeting and during the debates, the Tolna County Tamási case, where thousands of cubic metres of plastic waste also from Italy is located in the middle of a small town, a few hundred metres from the homes, and this situation has not yet been resolved. So what I can tell you is that there have been promises from the government side over the last 11 years, and they haven't been able to find a solution to this problem. So I think, besides many other reasons, that if someone is protecting the environment, ensuring a healthy environment and, in any case, effective action against illegal landfills is important, that is why we need a change of government, which, let us trust, will happen in the spring of next year. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-25-188	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Tünde Szabó, Secretary of State, Fidesz Group, applied for a speech under the title of the IInd Nyíregyházi Developments. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with my earlier speech, I was able to provide this House with brief information on the most important cultural and sporting support and development of Nyíregyháza in recent years. Today, I will describe major infrastructure developments and investments, as in addition to the epidemic situation, a series of large-scale road construction and renovation programmes could continue to improve the living conditions of Nyíregyháza residents. Accordingly, the first stage of road development from government support of HUF 5 billion is already underway, with 18 streets in the first round. [[15.10]] With the renewal of the road and sidewalk networks of Benczur and Bessenye squares, our cultural district has become a real recreation centre. A bike-friendly area has been established in the Sóstógyágyfürdő, and it is nearly 80 km away from Nyíregyháza in the bicycle path network, not counting the very popular bicycle-road network built between the Tokaj road and Nyíregyháza-Tokaj in the framework of the Modern Cities programme. The establishment of the precipitation water drainage network started in 2010 and the work has led to an increase in environmental safety and a significant reduction in the risk of inland water. One of the most significant developments in this direction last year was the reconstruction of the Nyulas lake canal with beach expansion, in recent years, between 2013-19 a total of 93 new streets were built in 32 kilometres, each with precipitation water drainage. In order to ensure safe transport and steady traffic flows, three circular hubs have been built and machines are currently working on the Tisavasvár road overpass. In addition, the completion of the Grand Boulevard, the design of the Tokaji Road Underpass and the construction of the intermodal node, which have been expected for decades. It is also planned that from the railway station to the overpass on Debrecen road, four lanes will be used to form the entire inner circle of Nyíregyháza. The renovation of the small forests has also been completed, and large-scale tree planting programmes have been launched for the protection of the environment, in which we have been able to connect the population and the local government institutions, and it is very important to mention that electric buses appeared in Nyíregyháza at the end of last year as part of the green bus demonstration sample project. In half of the bus fleet serving local public transport, environmental buses have been on Nyíregyháza roads for three years, and for example, more modern buses were delivered last week by Volán Zrt. with the assistance of a fleet network that affects the entire province of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg. In preparation, the city's sustainable energy and climate action plan, which will receive a total of HUF 1.8 billion of tender funding this year, with the implementation of a number of energy renovations. In addition, local government apartments are being modernised and renewed together with the Cheater Public Pensionasház, and several primary schools and secondary schools, as well as the energy development of several cultural houses, as well as the building of Continental Arena. The town clinic, the small SZTK, has been completely renovated in previous years, as have the Csillag Street and the County Medical Office in Rye. On Tokaji Road, a health centre was established, and it is very important to note that Nyíregyháza does not have an unfilled practice. Last year the property for social services was renewed in Nyírszőlős, as well as a new social day care facility. Benczúr and Bessenyei tér have a completely new image in the centre of Nyíregyháza, the area of asphalt, playground and park has been completely renewed. Currently, it is very important to mention that 102 playgrounds provide leisure activities for families with children in Nyíregyháza, and, in recent years, 34 kindergartens and 9 crèches of the city have been renovated, creating a modern, beautiful environment for the smallest. This development does not stop, and in cooperation with the inhabitants of Nyíregyháza and its local government, we will continue the work, which is in the common interest of all of us to carry on. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-25-190	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, an independent representative, applied for a post-meeting speech:. What do the boys in Pest say? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today we commemorate the mournful anniversary of the communist state's directing a series of fires on 25 October 1956, and a number of peaceful protestors died. We barely have any estimates of how many men, women, and children were left dead on the stones. Neither the leaders of Kossuth Square massacre nor the retribution after November 4 were accounted for either after 1990 or after 2010. And the fact that this barbaric massacre has been left without consequences, I think that it is the common crime of politicians for the past 30 years. But obviously there is also a reason for this, on the one hand, the descendants of these murderers sit in the successor organizations of MSZMP to this day, and the government that calls itself the right is the beneficiary of the burden on the left with such figures. This is why, among other things, it has been governed by a constitutional majority for more than ten years. But not only has he lost his accountability, not only has he lost responsibility for those responsible, but you, my honourable fellow Members, are also holding the leaders of repression in power and raising them to public office. For example, the Centre for Fundamental Rights is still a member of Lieutenant III/III, József Horváth, who has played a leading role in building dictatorship and repression. For more than a year, Viktor Orbán has not answered my question about what Gábor Xantus had to do with the former dreaded, notorious Romanian secret police, secret agent of Securiate among the founding members of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, and how it is possible that he still receives millions of orders from public media. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that these two examples show more than anything how anti-communist, how national and how Christian the Fidesz-KDNP government is. But you have not accounted for not only those responsible for 1956, but also those responsible for 2006, and you would have had the opportunity to do so, and you have 11 years, honourable Members of the Parliament. On Saturday, civil response activists pulled out a Molino in front of protesters marching on the peace procession, with the following subtitles: "The police terror is 15 years old." The NER is 11 years old. Where's the accounting? You have been unable to answer this simple question for more than ten years. The schizophrenic situation is that you are organizing a protest against those who have not been accounted for. And not only have they not been accounted for, but they have also made a political factor out of them. In civil democracy, the leading role of the former Prime Minister, who shot among his own people, is not to produce a movie, but a court case. You, the truth is, there's one thing you love more than the truth... a lot more than the truth, more than the power. Ferenc Gyurcsány can still do the flu in trendy sneakers, instead of directing the catalogs in the prison of the Váci Penitentiary, because you made it possible for him to do so, this political assignment is in your interest, and that's why the chief dogs of police terror are still at large. And do you know, my honourable members of the Government, who were the only ones who provided genuine, meaningful assistance to the victims of the bloody autumn of 2006? It wasn't you, it wasn't Fidesz, it wasn't KDNP, it was the civilians. The National Law Protection Service, the otherwise Balliberal Background SAC, and the Helsinki Committee, who you now describe to Soros Rental Organisations, were the only ones who took meaningful steps to ensure that the victims of the 2006 autumn bloody events would expect some kind of legal assistance, some sort of satisfaction, and this is the real shame. And the shame of that movie about Ferenc Gyurcsány... the people who are now treading on each other's feet from the Fidesz politicians, most of them fled the scene cowardly. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right! Armored car!]] I know because I was there as a 21-year-old college student, and I don't really remember, maybe respect for Révész Máriusz, the only exception, except for him, I don't really remember that there were brave Fidesz and KDNP politicians who would stay out on the street and give support. And it wasn't much of an example, because the Prime Minister, as the ground got hot under his feet, jumped into his armored car so quickly that he left the square at such a tempestuous speed that we could only see his cool spot. So I would like to ask you not to take the names of the victims of the fall of 2006 into your mouth, either at public events or at party events or here in Parliament, because even in this, as in so many others, they are not credible. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-25-192	Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2021-10-25-193	Mr President, Dear House, Before I get to my point, Secretary of State Miklós Soltés is putting me in an emergency situation. If I didn't give respect to the House, I would simply call it the Secretary of State for Lying, because what he has said here on the subject of immigration, in other cases, it could, indeed, be Btk. in other communities. Today, I do not know any opposition party that wants to organise immigration and immigration in Hungary. However, I know a government that has carried out this organized immigration in two genres in recent years. It is perhaps well-known to my fellow Members that the settlement bond structure has damaged the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian taxpayers, of a magnitude of ten billion, and in return you sold the hallway of Hungarian citizenship to foreigners with many questionable backgrounds who posed a net national security threat to our country. What is at least so annoying is the organized imports of foreign migrant workers, where this government organizes hundreds of thousands of labour from Vietnam, Mongolia, exotic countries, while watering itself with demographic changes and a kind of national syrup. So don't organize migration, return to the path of decency, and don't make us do things you've done in the last few years. Yes! We also see that another issue of vital fate is the area of housing, and also an average Hungarian youth who didn't have, say, five million forints in cash, so he couldn't pay for a CSOK part, he couldn't become bank-credited, he was able for a very long time with state-supported housing savings, let's say, to collect his own share of the CSOK. At the same time, this annual state aid of up to 72 thousand HUF was abolished by the Government of Hungary, and with reference to the operation of various intermediary companies, it took days to plan this market. I was never a fan of the Fundamenta, but it could have been easy to modify this system so that LTP could be picked up and received state support through the Hungarian Treasury. The fact is that you have abolished this system, you have put nothing in its place, so there is no message for young Hungarians who do not have a larger share. Nor for those who would only renovate their home, but let's say they wouldn't buy a new-built family house or use a village CSOK as a minister in the order of ten million for the Balaton construction. What we see, then, is that the resources do not reach where the need exists and total social groups are left out of support. For example, those who do not yet have children, but who want to. This is at least as important a demographic group as someone who already has two, and hopefully has a third. What we see, then, is that it should be restored, that state aid for housing savings could be restored. We, right-wingers, as right-wing people, with Christian social sensitivity, approach social and fate issues from the point of view of the most fundamental unity of society and the family; in this spirit, we would provide state aid to all interested parties for a hundred thousand forints of housing savings on an annual basis, but for the first time in the first year at least one hundred thousand citizens and families who could use this construction. And obviously, this state aid should be available every year. So we see that this is easy to manage from the budget. It doesn't cost much in such an extra way that it wouldn't be possible to create a pyramid or two by stopping investment in cymbals, by redeploying some vague spending. But it would also be a very positive message for the people living in the condominium, because many of us know that an average condominium with LTP has raised money, the money of the residents for a boiler change, for an energy investment; because there would also be an EU source for this, only the Government of Hungary said that we would use this EU money for public institutions, and although a certain percentage could be given to citizens, the Government of Hungary did not want this. Let us conclude, then, that that citational faucet was blocked from all social groups. We are putting a proposal on the table that, by investing a few ten billion forints, could guarantee the opportunity to thrive in the homeland for the affected Hungarian citizens. And in a country so scarce and so quickly empty, a greater, more important, more vital promise cannot be made. You have to do everything you can to get along in the homeland. I also have my fellow members in favour of the Government on this proposal. Mr President, thank you for your attention and patience. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-25-194	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, with a title of 60 nothing. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Well, let's play some tennis. 15-nothing, 30-nothing, 40-nothing, and if it continues like this, the tennis court will have a game. He played in the Fidesz-style domestic tennis, but 60-nothing. For about 60 weeks we have been waiting to find out where that about 3.8 billion government budget money has disappeared in the Hungarian Tennis Association, led by the Fidesz MP Lajos Szűcs. But nothing after 60 weeks since the election of the new President, János Lázár, Fidesz, Member of Parliament. But the report happened. No, not against the Fidesz congressman Lajos Szűcs, but against his employees. Because the former President stated in his statement that he should pay attention - as President of the Alliance, he did not see economic affairs, nor did they belong to his duties. I'd like to look at Matthew Kocsis, President of the Handball Association, or Szilárd Németh, President of the Wrestling Federation, to see if this could happen in the sports organizations they run. And yes, I ask you, what kind of leader, what kind of president doesn't know what's going on in his organization. Then why are you there? When, in the life of a sports professional association, it is known that the Presidency, led by the President, or only the President, decides on certain matters. He's the decision maker. And can you believe that a president has no insight, for example, that the Tennis Association accounts for nearly three times the amount allowed by the tax authority to claim back, thereby damaging the state register by more than 700 million forints? You can hear such things about the operation of the Hungarian Tennis Association, led by Lajos Szűcs, that they have access to unauthorized tax benefits, uncredited receipt, payment without completion. For some companies contracted with the association only billing was made, but not performance, which served only to obtain the unauthorized tax advantage of the sports organization; it was also worth hundreds of millions of forints. Why can't a pro-government politician be held accountable if he makes a mistake, especially if he's committing a crime? Why should a sport be ashamed of a pro-government president? And what does this even reflect on the Hungarian tennis society and the Hungarian sport society? Why should the investigating authorities also be embarrassed when they wish to do their job impartially? Covering up such a case only strengthens what we have said a long time ago, that politicians have no place in the role of a sports leader. Or perhaps Lajos Szűcs is allowed to make a double mistake? Is everything okay with being replaced? Can the game go on? Ladies and Gentlemen, When does the game end in home tennis in the Fidesz mode? Or will it be, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said, that every match lasts until we win it? The sports-loving Hungarians watch this shameful game and pay 3.8 billion for it on top of everything. At the same time, some people are having fun with us. But not for long. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-25-196	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Serbian ethnic spokesperson Alexov Lyubomir came forward with a title entitled "The Margo of the Szeged-Szabadka railway." I give you the floor.
u2021-10-25-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, As is well-known to you, on October 18, in Horgos, Serbia, there was a solemn and symbolic foundation of the Szeged-Szabadka railway line to be renovated. As thousands of people on the ground welcomed the event, I can safely say that at the solemn moment the Serbian community in Hungary shared. We know that, in fact, the renovation works of the railway line that had been built 150 years ago have started, and the foundation stone is a symbol that the Serbs and the Hungarians have started to build a new future. The inhabitants of the area, regardless of their nationality, look forward to the construction of the railway with great hope, and expect their fate to turn right. [[15.30]] The region, perhaps Horgos itself, can be a suburb of Szeged. In the summer of 2015, the border section of the railway line became one of the most important border crossing points of the refugee wave towards Hungary. Rail transport was not safely sustainable because of the people walking on the rails, so it was closed in September 2015. The situation on road crossings, the waiting for several hours, has made it impossible or at least seriously difficult to work across borders. Rail can now also solve this problem, but we can also trust that plants will be established in the region, as its infrastructure will be excellent. Nearby is the Belgrade-Budapest highway, built by the Subotica-Szeged railway. By renovating the railway, Szeged and Subotica and the regions of these cities are also closer together. It is planned to be possible to get from one city to another in 40 minutes, which is a great pleasure for Hungarians and Serbs from here and across the border. For us nationalities, close and good relations between the two countries and strategic cooperation are of paramount importance. Co-thinking together will lead us forward, and this will make it possible for both Hungarian and Serbian residents to become the winners of this investment. This investment makes it easier not only for the Hungarian Serbs to get to the mother country, but also for the Hungarians in Vojvodina. That is why we welcome the importance of the management of the two countries to renovate and modernise the one and a half century-long roadway, overpasses and railway stations. The joint decision of the two countries is for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia and Hungary. We hope that the first step will be followed by the others, and we look forward to the future, where we can travel on the already completed Budapest-Belgrád route with the right conditions. I myself am a great fan of rail development, because today's greatest challenge is to bring mobility needs and environmental protection into line. In my view, this modern rail development is also a step forward in the eradication of pollution, which is why I am pleased that rail transport between Szeged and Subotica is restarting. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-198	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Mr Bence Tuzson, Minister of State, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "School Developments in the Dunakesze District." You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, It is very important for me that the region that I represent, the constituency of Dunakeszi, Dunakeszi, Fot, God, Csomad, Csomör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház, is an area that is the fastest developing region in the country. Many people ask me what the secret is that this region is developing so quickly. On the one hand, this area is inhabited by people who are willing to act, who love to act, and this action has an impact, and cooperation is good. Cooperation with citizens is good, cooperation with certain municipalities is good, cooperation with the government is good, and such cooperation is always fruitful. The result is that the road network is developing, the rail network is developing, the school system is developing, schools are being built, kindergartens are being built, crèches are being built, and I could list the many developments that have been made in this area, even in the field of culture. Yes, very significant improvements have been made, such as the area of education. In recent years, 15 developments have been made in the field of education, 15 major developments and 8 developments are under way. We've built new schools, but now we've got new schools, new schools. In Csömör, for example, we will build a 16-room school, in Veresegyháza a 24-room school, in Göd the 24-room school will also be built, and Dunakeszin will build a high school and a vocational gymnasium, so we are in serious education development. This is of great importance, since the region is one of the youngest regions in the country, and in our constituency the Dunakesz district is also the largest district. In this form of population, this region is the youngest region, and we also have the youngest settlement in the country in terms of its population: Veresegyház. This is why improvements that need and need to be made are important. Allow me to list, without the need for completeness, the improvements that have been made in recent years and those that are in progress. As I mentioned, the construction of a new 16-room school is underway in Csömör, building a 24-room school in Veresegyháza. In Veresegyház, the Kálvin Téri Reformed Primary School is also being expanded, Gödön is under preparation and we will build the 24 classroom primary schools. László Németh Primary School in Göd was extended on the one hand and the building was partially renovated on the other. Dunakeszin, I mentioned the new high schools. The Radnóti Miklós High School is also partially renewed in the same city, and Fóton is also preparing for the move of the Folk Arts Secondary School to a completely new building. In the past, there has been serious education development. It is a great pleasure for us to be able to hand over the Catholic High School at Veresegyháza, and the AMI could also get a new building. In Veresegyház, the mentioned Calvin Téri Reformed Elementary School was expanded, and this school is also built step by step in various development phases, and the construction of the gymnasium has already been completed there. It is also a great pleasure for us that in the city of Dunakeszi, the Roman Catholic Elementary School of Christ could also be opened in the building that was previously a public school, since the state school moved to a new building, but this building was renewed and even expanded; it is worth seeing that this development is very spectacular. Dunakeszin was also able to renew the gymnasium of the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor Primary School, and the fazekas Mihály Elementary School has also received new insulation, which has also resulted in a small renovation, and even the expansion of this school has taken place recently. Szent István Elementary School is probably one of our greatest achievements in recent years: one of the most modern primary schools in Hungary was built as a 24-room primary school, and this could be realized by Dunakeszin. Also Dunakeszin the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor Primary School was partially renovated, the renovation of the energy was also done. The Mátyás Király Primary School was also partially renovated in Csömör, it was also a major development and the energy development of the music school could also be realised. We also expanded schools in Göd, the László Németh Primary School, and the Waldorf School in Fót could move into a new building. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Fóton the Fáy András Primary School also received a new boiler, and Csomad is also serious [[The president's ringing again.]] school development could have taken place. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-200	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, has also applied for a post- Agenda address:. The dangers of using drugs for young people. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-201	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the literal meaning of the drug, it is the collective name of compounds that change the physical, mental and intellectual functions of the individual by getting into the body. So drugs are natural or artificial substances that affect the functioning of the central nervous system, the individual's state of consciousness, making it independent of the reality of the outside world. The consumption of mind-modifying agents is typically intended to gain pleasure or improve well-being, but their use is not without risk, may cause addiction, lead to withdrawal symptoms such as nightmares, sweating, tremors, tiredness, areas of interest or neglect of duties in case of withdrawal. Today, recreational drugs cause great problems, affecting a very wide range of society. There are often cases of death or overdose in the media, as well as the use of juvenile drugs in schools. [[15.40]] In recent decades, the consumption of extremely dangerous and unpredictable drugs called designer drugs in literature has increased significantly among juveniles. Due to the fact that the active substance is banned, the exact composition of the drug is constantly changing, and even the dealers often do not know exactly what they are selling. These contain harmful substances such as rat poison or acetone. Many environmental and social factors affect drug use: lack of parental support, neglect, irresponsibleness, and disadvantage. These are all significant risk factors, the recognition of which is of particular importance because effective prevention and treatment programmes are primarily designed to mitigate and protect against these risks. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Aradszki, Member of the KDNP Group, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:, How does the left celebrate 23 October? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Some may remember, others may know that on October 6, 1956, on the day of the Arad Martyrs' Memorial Day, the reconvicted and rehabilitated László Rajk was held. The event became a silent demonstration against the existing system, which, in retrospect, projected the revolutionary events two weeks later. László Bézik, mayor of Érd may have been afraid of something like this, because what happened at the town memorial on October 6th was that this year there were also those who had not come to remember before 2019, and they did not go near the church, in whose garden we had been gathering to remember the martyrs of Arad, and they did not like the memorial day, just as the nation, family and faith did not like it. Of course, Mayor Szikik resented the confrontation with the truth. Therefore, he, and I think his wife in the DK faction, Mrs Anett Bősz, was more forward-looking on 23 October. They considered it better not to give the Member of Parliament, or modest person, the opportunity to speak and express his thoughts at the town festival on 23 October. Therefore, this is how the mayor has announced the day of freedom in the history of Érd in an unprecedented way. I quote: I know that politicians love to say speeches, to speak, to be focused. I know, because I'm like you sometimes, but this year we banish political speeches from the festival, on this day we remember the heroes of the revolution in a different, worthy way. During the preparation of the event, we were determined to ensure that our most prestigious national holiday should not be boring and sweaty, that it should be fancy and trendy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Mayor not only deprived the inhabitants of the city of reciting and updating the events, but also the young people of learning about the revolutionary events of 65 years ago, as well as the Gyurcsány terror of 15 years ago. By proclaiming a fun and trendy party, she wishes to keep them ignorant so that next year she can get a vote for DK's candidate, or wife. There is nothing new about this anyway, since László Tűzik, like Gergely Christmas, does not deal with the city leadership, but with his wife's campaign, and everything is subject to it. So the national side, in order to be able to celebrate in a decent way, organized our own event. In October 2019, after the municipal election László Tsűzik promised a balanced and free local press. He explained that he would be most pleased if he did not appear in the paper and that the right and left would have equal access to the surfaces. Two years passed, and the opposite of that wish was realized, the city media became the campaign media of László Tüszik and his wife, with nearly HUF 200 million of public money per year. I was already censored in the autumn of 2019, shortly after they came to power, and I was erased from their already broken, printing paper. They have now exacerbated their ignominious work by banning commemorative speech at the town festival of October 23, 1956, because they are not worthy and boring, in the words of Siszis. The real reason, though it is a pity to keep quiet, is that Anett Bősz, his wife's political defender, is not allowed to speak of his outrageous attack on his own people 15 years ago. Mr President, Thus, the family business leading the town with county rights in Érd is party-politicizing, controlled from the background by the Phantom of the Parliament. That's what their own promises mean to them, and that's all fair and clear information, freedom of speech and democracy. It also shows that much - advertised tolerance and diversity last for them as long as the other takes his position in addition to silence! Such are the democrats and liberals today, and they would also lead the country, so there would be total national peace and tranquillity if they won next year. Fortunately, their credibility and popularity are well demonstrated by the spectacular failure of their event on October 23rd, which does not require comments. This way, tell Mr. Mayor you should be ashamed of yourself. He deserves more than that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-204	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Péter Ovádi, Member of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Modern Cities Programme" and the Hungarian Village Programme in the Veszprém 01 constituency. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-205	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. In many cases, the government side is accused of the fact that the municipalities do not develop and do not have the opportunity to develop their region. The opposite is true, of course, because if we look only at the 1st constituency of Veszprém County and there at the county seat for the programme "Modern Cities" then I can tell you that the agreement signed by Prime Minister and Mayor Gyula Porga six years ago can be said that almost all the programme elements have been completed, and most of the programme elements have, of course, been made out of state aid. If you look at sports developments, the Veszprém sports swimming pool has been completed, not only the impressive establishment serves mass sports, but also the everyday trainings of Kristóf Rasovszky, our silver medal winner in Tokyo. But the gymnast can also be completed in the framework of the Modern Cities programme. For a long time we have been waiting for the opportunity for the famous 50-year-old Veszprém Gymnastics Club to move to a new hall, which we have also managed to achieve within the framework of the program "Modern Cities" but we also have a new ice hall thanks to a billion-dollar support. Veszprém and its region boast that we will be the cultural capital of Europe in 2023. In this way, of course, developments affecting culture could not have been excluded from the programme "Modern Cities." I will also report in my next speech on the development of the cultural capital of Europe, but let us now stick to the development of the Modern Cities programme. The largest investments in the Veszprém Zoo, the largest tourist attraction of Veszprém, have also been made. The Antal Csernák School of Music was renewed from outside five years ago, looking for ways to renew this impressive building from the inside, and we also used the opportunities offered by the program "Modern Cities" to do so. Of course, it is very important for a city, an area, that its theatre be renewed. We are very pleased that we received support for this, and we were able to start the first phase of the renovation of the Petőfi Theatre. The title "European Capital of Culture" also has responsibilities, and it is very important that those arriving in the region can approach our beloved city through a network of roads. [[15.50]] This is why we thought that we would also make these improvements in the programme of modern cities. This is how the 8 82 connecting section of the Modern Cities programme was introduced, which will take place by the end of 2022. We are also very pleased that the government supported the southern bypass of Highway 8, where a seven-kilometer section will be renewed, and will be ready by the end of 2022. In addition, how we enter the city is important, but it is also important to see what our inland roads look like. The city of Veszprém received a HUF 5 billion grant from the programme of the Modern Cities. I have just spoken about the county-righted city, but it is very important that there are 24 small settlements in my constituency, and all 24 settlements can participate in the Hungarian village programme, with more than 130 successful applications, worth more than 2 billion HUF. It can be said that if the town of Veszprém was written by the Veszprém people, it is also possible to say that the local authorities of small settlements have written the programme, as it provides a real answer to real questions that the local government leaders have long been waiting for. If we just examine two of our settlements, Szentgal, where medical practice, medical devices, ecclesiastical community space, municipal community space, municipal road, service apartment, kindergarten building, church cemetery and the call for responsible livestock maintenance are also included as a successful tender, or in Vilonyán medical devices, ecclesiastical community space, municipal road and sidewalk, kindergarten yard, public property purchase, kindergarten building renewal, municipal cemetery, we can see that the Hungarian village is open to development since 2019, which the municipalities have been waiting for for for for a long time. Thank you very much to the government for bringing the program of the modern cities to life and the programme of the Hungarian village, so that our region can develop unstoppably. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-25-206	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title of changing the period. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Peaceful county run didn't start yesterday, and let's be fair, not ten years ago. To understand the causes of this historical crisis that my homeland is suffering, it is necessary to go back much further in time. I think that this county, Békés county, has been the loser of every great Hungarian historical change in the last hundred years. He was the first to lose the Trianon national loss and national theft, when it happened that the inhabitants of Békés county, with a single stroke of feathers, from one moment to the next from the centre, from the geographical centre of Hungary, suddenly to the periphery, to the forgotten. But the county of Békés became the loser of Miklós Horthy's Hungary, the county of Békés became the loser of Mátyás Rákosi's Hungary, and ultimately the county of Békés was also the loser of the political and economic transformation called the change of the system in 89-90. In the region of Békés we also carved on the accession of the European Union, but the coup d'état was ultimately brought by the 2010 Viktor Orbán cab revolution, because this new elite here in Pékés County has been gaining weight for almost 12 years, and as long as they gain weight, the majority of the citizens of Békés County, at least those who can do it and those who are outside their pack, fleeing from this county, and we are about to be there that there is no man who can teach, and there is no one who can heal, and there is no man who can work. While we stand on the brink here, and while it is obvious to everyone that these trends and processes continue, the number and population of this county will decrease by another 60 thousand over the next 30 years, the people who exercise and rule power over the people of Peace and County, all those outside their circles, all those people who are taught morals, lectured out of family, and lectured out of patriot love. They do this in such a way that they will not for a moment be aware of the real issues of fate of the citizens of Békés County, ignore the reality around them, ignore the tens of thousands of people who pilfer from month to month and try to survive from one month to another with a few thousand forints. They ignore the enormous poverty that is there and is growing around us, ignore the family fathers and the family mothers who do the work for no money, in catastrophic working conditions, slaving around their workplaces, and while doing so, for the same job, 80 thousand forints more than 80 kilometers west for the same job at the end of the month in exchange for their work. That's why I used to tell my own people and mine at home in Békés County that Békés County would not choose a representative in April, but a future. We have to make a decision, we have to decide between continuing this 12, 30 or 100 years, or we're going to do something completely new. What we need to decide and decide for the citizens of Békés County is that they want to build a new future, where for honest work there is no hunger, but honest pay, where young people who are born into this county can feel not at the end of the world, but in the middle of where we do not squander our natural treasures, but we are conscious, and we take care of these treasures, where those people and those fates, and those who are in a difficult situation, are not thrown into the trench and not left to their fate, but we give them a hand and help them to build a future in Pékés County that will finally be home to mutual respect, not for theft, but for each other. So April 2022 is of great importance in our shared future, and the stake is that we can create this future, the stake is that in April 2022, the past, which there, on the other side of this horseshoe, will take place, triumph, or the future that we all want for ourselves and our grandchildren alike. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-25-208	Dear Parliament, Mihály Witzmann, on behalf of the Group of the Fidesz, also wishes to make a statement after the agenda: you can start with the title of the swimming pool project in Siófok. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-25-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Old and legitimate demand for Siófok's inhabitants to finally have their own swimming pool for the 25 000 city known as the capital of summer. Well, it seems that we have actually come to the conclusion that, thanks to the government's support, the swimming pool project of Siófok is about to begin. It was not an easy way to get here, because years ago exactly the local government announced that children's swimming education in Siófok had been solved, namely in the municipal-owned Galerius spa. Well, since then, this complex has been closed, because in recent years the condition of the bath has deteriorated to such an extent that the owner municipality has decided to close immediately. At present, it is not yet known exactly when the spa of Siófok could open its doors again, but even if the management solves the technical problems, it can be said that Galerius is much more of an adventure bath than a swimming pool than it has been before. For this reason, even in my previous parliamentary term, I tried to explore the opportunities available and realistic for the city to build a swimming pool in the city. Therefore, in March 2017, I offered the city a lake tender, with which we were also able to win the partnership of the Hungarian Waterball Association. In April, the body of representatives decided to establish Siófok Víziballa Kft. in an extraordinary board meeting and to provide the Taoön part necessary for the project, as well as the decisions necessary for the submission of the application were taken. [[16.00]] Then time passed, but we didn't really hear anything about the project. Finally, in 2020 the city abandoned the possibility to apply for funding on the basis of a lack of tao resources. This was surprising for many of us because these so-called Taós sources were available in 2017, 2018 and 2019, i.e. for three years from the first municipal decision to use the tender. The operation of the Taós support system has also been demonstrated by the fact that in the same period, in the same Taós system, significant infrastructure developments of the privately owned Siófok handball club, such as the Kiss Szilárd Sports Hall, which is named one of the most modern sports halls in Hungary. Although the coronal virus epidemic in 2020 has actually caused serious problems with Taós subsidies, there has not been such a problem in the years before the outbreak of the virus. Therefore, I regretted the decision of the municipality, as the implementation of the swimming pool in Siófok was yet to take place. That is why I have decided to explore further possibilities for the establishment and construction of a swimming pool in Siófok. Well, that's how we got to the point where, after a number of preparatory negotiations and negotiations, a supportive government decision was made to start planning the complex with purely state money. I could say that we have once again managed to put on the agenda this serious question so burning to the Siofoks. During the last discussions, I also learned that larger school pools and larger dressing rooms are expected to be built in Siófok compared to the school schools that have been built so far. Since I was interested in the construction of the swimming pool in Siófok, I considered it important to report on the recent negotiations here in the House of the country. According to the government decision published in the Hungarian Gazette, we can say that the swimming pool can be built in Siófok in the third phase of the national public education and infrastructure development programme. The state resources needed for the investment are provided by the government from design to construction. The two pools will be built in the north-eastern part of the town of Siófok Kiliti, next to the training centre to be completed by government support. The municipality of Siófok is responsible for providing the necessary infrastructure for the operation in the area it has designated, i.e. the construction of the water, electricity, gas, sewage network or connections. The complex will be operated by state-owned National Sports Centres, so it will not mean expenditure for the city. As I mentioned earlier, compared to the already built and currently under construction schools, it is expected that in the Siófok swimming pool, two larger swimming pools and larger dressing rooms will be designed compared to the type designs used to date. My hope is that the decision of the government, the financial resources provided by the state and the partnership of the municipality will soon lead to the selection of the designer and the conclusion of the design contract, so that the preparation of the multibillion HUF investment will actually begin. Well, that's where we are at the moment. I will, of course, keep the citizens of Siófok informed of the developments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-25-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Hajdu, DK Group, also came forward after the agenda address: "Keeping the Promise - Fidesz mode." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-25-211	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Following his usual Friday morning press interview with the Prime Minister, he spoke about the approaching of the fourth wave, and in this context I asked a question, in an early morning or afternoon, whether the business tax on municipalities, which was closed, or 50%, was taken, and his business tax was reduced to 1 percent, whether now, at 61 percent of the graft, it means that we can still count on this 50 percent in the following year. The design of this will begin shortly, and it will begin, with this uncertainty. At the time, when the municipalities took note of this without a word, the approximately 700 municipalities, from which this 50 percent was withdrawn, are among the 3180 municipalities... because that is what they have so-called tax power, one from which this certain 50 percent was withdrawn. This is why it is interesting what will happen to this municipality over 700 next year, because we have spent so much of our time in the framework of the protection against the epidemic, Covid, where we have not simply watched outside what measures the government is implementing, but the local authorities themselves have also made a very significant contribution to their money, changed budgets, distributed masks, for example in my constituency for all citizens, and introduced a free test, who lost their jobs in a demonstrable way, gave them immediate emergency aid, 50 thousand forints. But the antiseptic devices have been provided in every institution, every place where district citizens appear and local government-type institutions, continuously. We organized the vaccination and, by the way, mobilized on posters to pick up their vaccinations. If it is referred to in Article 15 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following paragraph shall be added: We're gonna go through the district, you can see the posters posted right now, where district citizens, district publics are gonna announce that I've got myself vaccinated, you should go and get yourself vaccinated. This cash register cost about 350 million forints. That is why it is extremely interesting and important to see what kind of gestures we have received. We got gestures that the tourist tax was taken away, the parking fees were free from the government instead of us. These are losses other than 350, and the forinting of this will come later. The municipal-owned catering facilities, which are not local government-owned for housing purposes, had to be made free of charge and the company operated in it free of charge. And, of course, a series of measures such as the solidarity tax or solidarity contribution have come in, which the government has made a very significant increase in the last year, either in return or as a gesture. The terrible negative effect of this is that the trade tax is to a significant extent, in the case of a budget of the same size as that which I represent in the XVth century. in the district, it was a HUF 1.9 billion loss of resources. And let me mention that, compared to Budapest as a whole, the districts lost a total of HUF 35 billion only as part of the business tax. The capital city also lost 30 billion forints in one local government; in total, only 65 billion forints in Budapest. And we know, in answers to questions, that 700 municipalities lost HUF 150 billion with this withdrawal of funds, with the statement here today that small businesses had received it, and that it was also given to help small businesses by the municipalities. I don't know of any small business in our district, there are about 1900 small taxpayers, I wouldn't be able to name one from this source. That's what I wanted to tell you after the agenda. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-10-25-212	Dear Parliament, Member Anett Bősz, DK Group, also applied for a post-meeting address with the title "Elvira Major" at the age of 70. You have the floor.
u2021-10-25-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to tell you about an institution this afternoon that means a lot to the Érdians and everyone who lives in the region. I have spoken before this House about Elvira major, but I am now celebrating Europe's largest stone fruit gene bank. Cactiphant road led this far in the major life of Elvira. Although politics has often interfered with the operation of the past 70 years, those working there have not lost sight of the goal for which they arrived at the border between Érd and Tarnok, they have always protected, defended and enhanced this national treasure. We need to mention that if climate change or any cruel natural disaster were to come to almost any region in Europe, then those living there could call on Elvira major and replant those orchards that they lack from the gene bank. [[16.10]] Thus, the virus-free plantation of the fruit gene bank is also a guarantee of the future. A birthday girl, especially if she has reached such a beautiful age as Elvira major, should be greeted in a worthy manner, so please allow me to briefly explain this story that has led up to this point. Thanks to its ideal natural features, thanks to the number of sunny hours and the terrain conditions, Érd was already an important wine-growing area from Roman times. From time to time, this tradition and the culture of fruit production vanished, was pushed back into the background, and then came to the fore again during the 800-year history of the settlement. For a long time, agriculture has been the main source of livelihood for the people living here, especially with regard to cereal production and grape cultivation. Érd was one of the settlements that did not fear the philoxera epidemic, although the disease took away the possibility of growing grapes from the locals. The people here have fought to find a more stable, predictable and sustainable solution and to benefit from the problem. Peach production and later sour cherries and stone fruit had a very important role to play, so it's no wonder that the II. After World War II, Elvira major was one of the beneficiaries of land distribution. In its historic territory, a 40-acre sample farm has been designated. The first research institutes were established around 1950, since then they have been guarding and developing with unbroken endurance the stone fruit stock of our country and the entire Carpathian Basin. In Elvira major, nursery cultivation began 20 years later. To date, Elvira major is among the most important schools in the country. No one in the city has to present the large cherry in Érd, which is just one of the many treasures found in Elvira's major 2200-item gene bank, and these items have been gathering for half a century. It is no exaggeration to say that the survival and growth of Elvira major is in the interests and value of Hungary and future generations. It is no coincidence that the current city leadership and its allies, when the former Fidesz mayor and his allies wanted to make Elvira major an industrial park area, the democrats and many of the Ordic civilians resisted and said that so far and no longer, none of the majors would. Érdék and its region are only looking for environmentally friendly investments, which are in the interest of major, capable of raising an adequate forest range and taking into account natural resources, however important it is to develop the local economy, and this is particularly important. At the same time, I personally intend to be able to set up a visitation centre around Elvira major that will highlight Elvira major from the list of so far known stone fruit gene banks and bring it into a row such as the Visitor Centre of Kis-Balaton or any of our national parks. Because it is one thing that Elvira major has a prominent role in higher education and research, but it would be very good if this knowledge could go to public education, and it would be very good for young students to know how important XXI is. In the century, man and nature lived together in such a way that it could increase not only the present but also the future. I'm hoping we can do this together. Happy birthday to the Elvira major and the people who work in it. Thank you for listening. [[Laszlo Hajdu applauds.]]
u2021-10-25-214	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ágh, Fidesz Group, also applied for a post- Agenda speech: the future 150 years of the Celli railway will be built on the traditions of the past in Celldömölk. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-25-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At the beginning of October this year, we remembered in Celldömölk that the railway had reached the settlement 150 years ago. In this way we were able to show that Celldömölk was proud of his traditions, including the railway past, through which so many people know this fantastic settlement as a railway city. I am one of those who, as they say, were struck by the smoke of the locomotive, since I am a railway child through my father. If you have to recall memories of my childhood, many of those moments are connected to trains, stations, my father's places of service. That's why I felt like I had the Celli holiday. When I was a child, I experienced what the railway community meant, and I appreciate the power of it. Therefore, allow me to express my respect and gratitude to everyone who, through their work in recent years and decades, has done a great deal in order for the railway to have a recognised and respected meaning. The anniversary also gave us an opportunity to point out that in the city we are building the future on the traditions of the past. This is the essence of the city building that is now under way, since the outstanding values of Celldömölk have already been given to us by providence. This is also the case with the 150-year-old railway heritage, but many more examples could be mentioned, whether it is medicinal water, the former Benedictine Church, the high school or the market that seems like an ordinary example. Step by step, we can see that the work of the years has been stacked together to form the basis for new and new developments. This is how the spa was built, so the monastery and the said high school and the market were renewed. Through our joint work, new and new investments have been made together. Now this happens to one of the wedges and gates of the city, the symbol of the railway tradition, the railway station building. We had already taken the first step with the renovation of the interior spaces, and later another result was the establishment of the parking lot. In order to be worthy of a century and a half tradition, however, external renovation was also necessary. This has led to years of lobbying, and we've all done our part. I am grateful to the decision-makers of the MÁV and the government for listening to our request. Without their supportive attitude, all this would have been unthinkable. Dear House, Not only in connection with the construction of the city of Celldömölk, we can say that the future is built on the traditions of the past, but also on the domestic railway and transport. During this decade, investments made the rail transport of Vas county more efficient, such as electrification of Porpác-Hegyeshalom, works between Szombathely-Kőszeg, or the provision of Intercity access to several cities. We share the confidence that improvements can continue in the future. Dear Parliament, The development of railways is part of both the construction of cities and the construction of countries. The reason why we can go in this direction is because some have laid the foundations for the 19th century. In the century, they made a huge difference in the life of a given settlement. We can be sure that if the tracks hadn't been built 150 years ago, everything would have been different in Kemenesalya's capital. So this city owes a lot to the railroad. Among other things, it has made him what he is, a city that has a name, a reputation in the railway world, and now has a serious history. Thanks, therefore, to all who worked and worked there, helping their fellow man to move on with his own work and, on the other hand, continuing to serve his predecessors. Tomorrow's railroad is based on today's position. Thanks, therefore, to all today's Celldömölk railwaymen, for building on the traditions of the past, they also build the future. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-10-25-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 8 November 2021. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
