u2021-03-17-2-0	Dear Parliament, The second extraordinary session of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the meeting will be Mr Attila Móring and Mr Gergely Arató. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai and her fellow Members, by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, are listed in Article 35 of the Parliament Act. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was initiated with regard to the abolition of the chaos associated with the administration of vaccinations against the coronal virus, H/15353. Proposal for a Decision No 13 and H/15355 on immediate measures to address the economic crisis. In order to discuss a proposal for a decision. The letter and its annex can be found on the website by colleagues and interested parties. The Extraordinary Meeting was convened by the Speaker of Parliament today. First, the speeches before the agenda will take place. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Group of Dialogues, spoke with a title on current affairs. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-17-2-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, on behalf of the Dialogue, we would like to thank health workers, social workers, everyone involved in the fight against the epidemic, for their work, and because today was the deadliest day, so we express our sincere condolences to the families of the deceased. If we listen to the government here in Parliament, then we don't know much, just that everything is very nice, everything is very good, everything is very well, and the Fidesz government never fails. What we can find out is that if there is any problem, it is Brussels or someone else's fault. This morning, for example, we heard from the government that vaccination is so slow because the EU vaccine treaties are bad. It would be nice to know what kind of contract the government has with China and Russia, apart from the fact that offshore is the brokerage company. Is it a mandatory commitment? Do you have an opportunity to get an account? What they want in Brussels, is that what's in it? I'll tell you what, there isn't. The Russian contract does not impose sanctions on the seller. The full submission of the Hungarian party is a sign that any disputes will be settled exclusively in accordance with Russian law in Moscow's arbitration court. These are the nicest things in the contract. So what the government asks others to account for, it doesn't succeed. We don't even know what Miklós Kásler, Minister of Health is doing in a health epidemic. He's been an elegant stranger here for almost a year. Yesterday he stopped by to ask me a question, and he found out how the opposition representatives dare to make an opinion on what they have no information about. Well, for once, the Minister's got the nail on his head, because there's a lot we don't know, because the government's keeping secrets. We don't even know why there was chaos in the vaccination plan on the weekend of March 6th, while the government says that the vaccination plan is going very nicely and well. Their justification was an administrative error; chronic patient data were not up-to-date with GP data. It's believable. So just the chronic patients who regularly keep in touch with the general physician, their data was not right. Of course, who asks questions, who criticizes, is immediately against vaccination, but what we do not know is how long the government will tolerate is that there is an unfit health minister during the health epidemic. We do not even know who is flying to the Maldives and Dubai, while the Prime Minister has expressly restricted these journeys. They're smart enough to figure out that they're doing business, but they're actually going on vacation, bringing in the virus's rapidly spreading mutation into the country. Who said that? Viktor Orbán! So I'm asking who authorized the people of power to travel. It appears that the rules on travel restrictions have been abused and that there has been an infringement. We're gonna be wondering if there's gonna be any consequences. In the summer, the password was also given, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs managed to yacht on the Adriatic as a guest of László Szíjj. These rules don't seem to apply to Fidesz and the people of power. We won't even hear what's going on with the ventilator capacity. Today, unfortunately, the number of people in need has reached 1167, and according to experts, this is the border, this is what the country can provide. But the Prime Minister says we're good, we're not asking for help, we're gonna help you. Amazing! We're calling on the government not to be face-to-face right now. If we can save one person by asking for help, then let's ask for help. There are thousands of ventilators if there aren't enough people who can handle it professionally. The Hungarian people expect the current government to set a good example, maintain, follow the rules with everyone, do not favor friends and friends and casino owners, competent ministers control the protection against the epidemic and do everything they can for the patients. In 2022, opposition parties will have to form such a government, because it seems that this government is unsuitable for this. He can only blame others, he can only fight imaginary opponents. That is what we would hear in the rejoinder from the State Secretarys, the Government Secretarys of State, if they had the courage to come. Thank you for the floor.
u2021-03-17-2-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-03-17-2-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Our country is in a very shocking situation, the nation is experiencing a terrible tragedy, so I will start with my comment, as always before the agenda, that I thank everyone who works at such a difficult time to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people. Joining my fellow Member in these tragedies, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the LMP, I express my condolences to the relatives of the victims. We're in a shocking situation. I would like to say to those who follow the report and broadcast, that there is not a single Fidesz, KDNP representative in front of us, there are completely empty benches for the government. Today we convened an extraordinary meeting to bring in to the Parliament measures, in addition to the inadequate and completely inadequate epidemiological measures of the past period, which are designed to stop the government from investing in the gigantic investments that are completely unnecessary and waste money, at least in this extremely difficult, critical situation, and to devote the hundreds of billions and thousands of billions to supporting the most difficult families in Hungary, turning them into real jobs and protecting jobs. [[18.10]] It is quite shocking to see that none of the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP felt the need to come, neither of them felt the need to participate in this process, and we should or should talk about these issues. The faction discipline was more important to them, and a faction decision was more important for them not to attend this meeting. If we look back a little over the last year, we've been in this terrible, terrible situation for a little over a year now, we've had the plague and the coronal virus for a year, it's worth looking at what amazing steps the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken instead of a meaningful crisis management. Not so long ago, when the Group of the European People's Party expelled the representatives of Fidesz, the Prime Minister and the government's prominents started a truly amazing lamentation, spoke of the rule of law, feared democracy, and talked about how shocking it was that, in such an epidemiological situation, the European People's Party was working on how they could make regulations by which they could exclude Members. Now, we consider this to be an extremely hypocritical, two-faced attitude. Let us recall what the government has done in the last year, what they have brought before the Parliament, and what decisions they have made using the extraordinary legal order. One of the most despicable acts was the harsh amendment of the electoral law in the face of their earlier promise, their earlier claim. Everyone can ask the question, but it remains a rhetorical question as to what the amendment to the electoral law has to do with us being in such an epidemiological situation. The intentions of power technology are absolutely clear: even in this difficult period, the government is working on how to straighten the field itself and how to increase its chances of victory in next year's election. A series of brutal attacks on municipalities, largely and typically against the opposition-led municipalities, were carried out in a truly astonishing and politically motivated manner. It has also not been taken into account that, in this serious epidemiological situation, municipalities are the number one bastions in the fight against the epidemic. They took away the remaining part of the motor vehicle tax, withdrew from public public transport financing, which is a shockingly unprofessional and risky step in an epidemiological situation, hijacked a significant part of the business tax, and just today the Parliament discussed a bill which, very roughly, again reduces the leeway of municipalities in terms of urban planning. This is quite an amazing and irresponsible step, and it is clear that the conciliation process that has been launched with the local government alliances is nothing but a waste of time. In a situation where cities and municipalities need to draw up their budgets. Hungarian rural cities do not know and the municipalities do not know in general in Hungary how much support and compensation they can expect from the government, so they can practically not plan the budget, they could not plan it responsibly. The government is damaging not only the local governments, but also the Hungarian people, because one of the most important tasks of the municipalities is the provision of basic public services. In this situation, when municipal revenues have fallen, when the tasks have multiplied, it will be harder for local authorities to provide public transport as a result of the constraints of the government, and it will be difficult for them to provide the most important public service, the supply of drinking water. Indeed, the Hungarian people will face the fact that there will be more and more pipes, more problems with water quality, fewer and fewer buses, and more and more people will be in danger. It's quite amazing and shocking. The irresponsible measures that this government has taken could be classified for hours. And what speaks for itself is that they refused to come to the meeting held in charge by the opposition and refused to discuss the proposals that we honourfully laid down on the table, and indeed sound measures and proposals that would really help Hungarian families in a difficult situation in this extremely difficult situation. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-17-2-4	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group, asked to speak with the title of News Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-17-2-5	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Parliament, I'm very sorry that the fidesz benches are empty, because today's extraordinary meeting has come about because of a case that is not more important than this one. I'm sorry, but I'm not surprised that the task of organizing the mass vaccination clearly exceeded the government's ability. This is a heartbreaking crash story, resulting in 74,000 people who were promised to be vaccinated did not receive the vaccine for protection against the virus. We don't know how many of them have been infected since then, we don't know how many of them were on the ventilator, and we don't know how many of them died. We don't know how many casualties there are in the government collapse, but how is it, judging by the growing dynamics of the third wave, it's practically certain. You buy time, you buy life, you lose time, you lose life. This government keeps losing time and life. The number of fatalities in the epidemic exceeded 17,000. This is why we oppositionists have decided that all of this cannot go without consequences, which is why we have put forward a proposal for a resolution calling on the government to do more in the current situation. That's what I'm going to tell you now. First of all, the government should apologize to those who have not been vaccinated for the vaccination chaos. Be honest with people at last, acknowledge the collapse, apologize, as any European government would do in a similar situation before having their man responsible for the collapse resigned. The government will fully investigate the collapse of the mass vaccination and publish the results within 15 days and determine who is responsible for the chaos. If it is not responsible and there will be no consequences, it will guarantee that we will have another such collapse, because where there is no liability, there is no responsibility. Within 8 days, the government will publish the supposedly existing vaccination plan, which includes the expected time, method and location of vaccination for each social group. It was enough that no one in the country currently knows when it will take place, because the vaccination plan is not public at best and does not exist at the wrong time. We believe when we see it, make it public. In eight days, the government will clarify who it considers as a chronic patient and what groups of employment it considers vulnerable. We expect that if even tonsillitis is a chronic disease for the deceased, then in the same way a chronic patient is counted for vaccination. And in the case of occupational groups, we would like to see it clearly, because there is some confusion in the force that football players are already vaccinated, but there are no metro drivers, teachers, kindergarten, daycare workers, couriers, postmen or trade workers. Who are in the vulnerable employment group, if not them? The government should consult the Hungarian Medical Chamber and other professional organisations on how general doctors can play a greater role in the vaccination of the population than before. It is an important experience that as long as they did the mass vaccination, nothing was wrong, the problems started when the government wanted to know better. GPs are responsible for the results so far, and we should rely on them in the future. Finally, but not least, the government should stop keeping secrets and provide people with meaningful information on vaccination, details of the spread of the virus, and health capacity. It's a one-year debt, it's time to take an example of virtually any European or neighbouring country. People have much more faith in a government that tells us everything about the current situation and the decision-making background than in such a secretive, radiation-lying government. And I'm the only one who's gonna add that they should stop lying that the opposition is anti-vaccination. Because in such a dramatic, extraordinary situation, and on such an important issue, you lie about the opposition, about your fellow citizens, who knows what lies it can do beyond that. [[Intercoms: That's right!]] Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-17-2-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech:, How many more people have to die? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-17-2-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Today it turned out that the government wasn't defending itself. It was just racing. It's all the more important for him to win races, even human lives don't matter. [[18.20]] Why am I saying this? I would like to begin by saying who is not spoken of today by the government, who are not protected today by the Fidesz-KDNP government. I'd start with the kids that the government hasn't protected, and they've been locked up for almost a year. In vain, I submitted several times on the opposition side and on the initiative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, at least to test the children before graduation as soon as possible, so that they could prepare and attend this year's graduation under normal conditions. The government doesn't talk about educators, it refuses to accept our initiative to provide workers, teachers, who find out that they have been infected by Covid, with 100 percent of their sick money. The government doesn't talk about health workers. The government won't tell us that as of March 1st, more than 5,000 medical workers left their profession. True, Zoltán Jenei, Director General of the Hospital, communicated that this will not only reduce the level of care, but also increase the quality. The government doesn't talk about hundreds of thousands, tens of thousands of our countrymen who lost their jobs because of the plague, it's like they don't exist for the government. The government does not talk about pensioners who are in an increasingly hopeless situation because food prices have gone sour. The government does not talk about people who are increasingly afraid because they do not hear comforting news, because they censor every day the conditions of the hospital, censor the news that they can at least protect and reassure the Hungarian population. But we know very well that since last autumn, the government has given up on the most important defense tool: testing and contact research. The government made the biggest mistake when it appeared that the mutant virus had appeared in neighbouring countries, and we found out that six infected people had been identified, then it did not start the kind of contact research that could have stopped the mass spread of this mutated virus. But he also gave up testing, even though we asked the opposition side to keep the public safe, and we even took an initiative to provide five rapid tests to all citizens on a monthly basis, as is the case in Austria, so that we can find out as quickly as possible who is infected and who is in danger. But defence is not important to the Hungarian government. The only thing that matters is winning a race. But we can't save people's lives with the competition. We are sitting here in Parliament today, initiating an extraordinary meeting, and we see that, apart from Mr President and Mr notary, Fidesz-KDNP Members are not interested in what has happened today in Hungary. What we see is that it's important for them to see only the image they convey. That's incredibly irresponsible. It is extremely irresponsible for the Hungarian population not to see what is happening around them. Allow me to give you one example. On the long weekend, before March 15, I turned on the TV2 channel. And what did I see on TV2? Easter is coming up, let's go shopping, let's go watering, everything's nice in the world, everything's nice in Hungary. There was no mention of the situation now, how serious the situation is! Is that really the most important thing for us to go to the shops to buy chocolate bunnies and buy eggs? In the meantime, they keep quiet about what is important, how to defend themselves, how to protect Hungarian people, what measures should be taken by the Hungarian government, but it does not do so. Hungarian children are not important to the Hungarian government, Hungarian parents are not important, Hungarian mothers are not important, grandmothers are not important, grandfathers are not important, employees are not important, pensioners are not important. The only thing that matters is keeping his own power. I think that this is the deepest and darkest thing we can imagine today in Hungary. I can only congratulate the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP that they cannot come to work in such a situation, for taking their salary every day.
u2021-03-17-2-8	Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-17-2-9	Mr President, Dear House, While the countries of Europe compete shoulder to shoulder to make up for the loss of wages for their workers in distress, Hungary's Government developed a microscopic package that affects only 5 percent of Hungarian workers. Now, when they knew that it would be about Hungarian workers and entrepreneurs, they did not come to their workplace, the 133 most courageous protested by their absence. So I accuse them of betraying Hungarian workers! Let us see what they have done in the neighbouring and European countries. In Austria, the budget shall pay the staff member's salary to 80-90 per cent of the total salary, where appropriate. In Germany, part-time workers were also thought of, and in case of absenteeism or reduced hours, the support they receive may be increased to up to 87 percent of their salary from day 90. In the Czech Republic, it has been stated in advance that the staff support will be paid for up to nine months. Let us compare this with the cowardly, testosian policy that the Viktors Orbáns are doing: for two weeks, for a month, they offer some truncated support, where the fine print or, where appropriate, the commercial bank decides that what is due is not due. We also see that in France, exceptional unemployment benefits can make up for up to 84 per cent of the net salary, and the state is willing to do so up to four and a half times the minimum wage under certain conditions. And we can also see that the countries of Europe are competing to help those who, by the way, carry this national economy and the European economy on their backs. The Government of Hungary does not come to work when it comes to them. In Hungary, we have talked a lot about the replacement of lost wages, the microscopic program that could not be advertised under normal conditions. But on the employer's side, it's just as bad. That is why I also accuse Hungary's Government of betraying employers and small business operators, because they are not here, but when it comes to establishing a grant agreement, the losses of Audi's Hungarian subsidiary due to total quarantine will be compensated with HUF 2 billion. And what we see is that Hungarian companies can at best claim a preferential loan, and this preferential loan is not certain to be granted in full, because the intermediary commercial bank will decide that the Hungarian entrepreneur will receive the support put together by the Hungarian taxpayers. Viktor Orbán and his team have brought together this world, this pure shame, and when they can protect it against the opposition, they do not come into their work. That is why I say that if there is an unspoken social contract that Hungarian workers, small entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises carry this country on their backs, ensure two thirds of the jobs, pay taxes, then the other half of the social contract should be valid: that if they are in trouble, then we give them a helping hand. At the moment, companies should receive a net grant of HUF 1-2 million in proportion to the loss of revenue in addition to the preferential loan. And from the preferential loan, you have to take out the mines, the fine prints, so that anyone who wants to use them can take this. Therefore, for those where at least one third of the revenue has fallen, where at least one third of workers cannot work, assistance should also be provided with grants. We have brought this package, and I believe that all the opposition parties agree on this, there is no one on the other side who can argue with this package, even though we do not yet have the cashier key. In the next year, responsibility cannot be spread out, all responsibility belongs to the government whose members, I say once again, do not go to work, and in multi-business companies sometimes give support by giving the average wage in advance for 27 years after a job, while the Hungarian entrepreneur gets the credit and takes the country on his back from it. For us, those strategic partners who are left out of the world and statistics of Fidesz are workers, small entrepreneurs who may have less than five employees, they may be self-employed, they may work in vulnerable circumstances, but well-being should be theirs, and well-being belongs to everyone. [[18.30]] We will do everything we can to help them not just in a year's time, but in the meantime, but until then, I can do nothing but accuse them of betraying Hungarian workers, Hungarian entrepreneurs, and the judgment seat of history will clearly judge what they have done, more precisely what they have not done. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-17-2-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Given that the agenda proposal contains the date of the decision, I would like to ask the faction leaders, group representatives who are present to stick to this date, or to proceed with the vote now. [[Intercoms from the opposition: Now! Let's vote now.]] I appreciate it, and please, if anyone disagrees, please indicate that you have agreed that we should start voting now. [[A statement from the opposition: Yes!]] So let's not stick to the original date. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote. Defiance and intervention from the opposition: 100%! It's monotonous!]] Thank you very much. I declare that the Parliament does not have a quorum. [[Intercom from the opposition: Name by name!]] Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr György Balla and Mr Imre Vejkey have in a letter initiated a repetition of the vote with the use of a ballot counting machine. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Where are they?! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote with the voting machine now. [[Vote. Intercoms from the opposition: Two hors d'oeuvres! They couldn't even get in here! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Not even the Commissioner of the People came in! A statement from the opposition: Presence! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: First presence statement! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame! Two hors d'oeuvres! Intercoms from the opposition.]] Dear Parliament, I declare that, when the agenda is adopted, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is the presence! Intercoms from the opposition.]] Present is for 40 people, away from 159 people. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Did we vote on the agenda or the presence?!]] On the basis of the number of Members present, which was recorded by the machine, the Parliament is unable to reach a resolution. Dear Parliament, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But we can handle it ourselves. A statement from the opposition: Shame!]] On the basis of written information from the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, as well as announcements concerning the absence of additional representatives, I do not see a chance to restore the quorum today. [[Intercoms from the opposition: Let's try it!]] Based on this, the house rules are 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, I shall establish the list of missing representatives. [[A statement from the opposition.]] In the absence of an agreed agenda, no item on the agenda may be discussed. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Where is Vejkey?! In trouble!]] I would like to inform you that, taking into account your signal that, while the data on the number of Members present on the Scoreboard just now have been established, I would like to ask you to repeat the vote. [[Zoltán Balczó: About the agenda!]] So I ask you to vote. [[Vote. Intercoms from the opposition. Intervention from the opposition: What are we voting on? Zoltán Balczó: Adoption of the agenda, but there is no "yes"! A statement from the opposition: The President has been abandoned! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Brenner Koloman: They wouldn't let me drive! Intervention from the opposition: Why are the notaries not helping?! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I'm asking you... [[Interventions and noise in opposition ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have been paying due attention so far, let us continue to do so in the coming period. So, in accordance with the motion, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote with the voting machine now. [[Vote. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Vejkey and Balla! Intercoms from the opposition. When the result emerges, there are clear and interrogations from the opposition: There is one more vote!]] I declare that, when the agenda is adopted, the agenda will be adopted by 41 votes in favour. , without a vote against and without a abstention, Parliament shall not have a quorum. I would like to inform you that, on the basis of written information from the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, as well as announcements of the absence of further representatives, I do not see the possibility to restore the quorum today. Based on this, the house rules are 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, I shall establish the list of missing representatives. In the absence of an agreed agenda, no item on the agenda may be discussed. I would like to inform you that the Parliament will resume its work at 11:00 a.m. next week. The meeting's closed.
