u2021-04-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 9th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-08-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, István Stumpf, the government commissioner responsible for the change of model in higher education, said the following a few days ago, and I quote: "The renewal of universities is the government's top national strategy goal. Only those nations whose universities are able to respond to the challenges of the changing world order can succeed in the race to acquire quality knowledge. The government's model change program, born in the spirit of Kunó Klebelsberg, offers a historical chance for Hungary to become one of the winners of the future. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These are very nice lines from the Commissioner of the Government, and it would be very good if things were that way, and that would be, but unfortunately, the model change that takes place here, in front of our eyes, is not conceived in this spirit, but rather it is more about privateising public wealth into foundations without consideration, speaking in Hungarian, stealing the confidentials of the Orbán government into the curatoriums of foundations, in an irreplaceable way, to eternal life, and about preparing for the withdrawal of the HUF 1500 billion of EU funding. My fellow members of the Government. Mr. Secretary of State! Do you really think that Zsolt Hernádi, Sándor Csányi, János Lázár or Judit Varga can be the key to successful university modernisation, and will they help you to answer the challenges of the changing world order? Well, no! They are not the people of the future, but the representatives of an old age, the leading actors of the half-feudal Hungarian system, the vassals of Viktor Orbán. These people have nothing to do with science, or even business life, if we look at the competitive sphere in our business life, because they have typically achieved their success in a monopoly situation. The undoubtedly rapid rush that the Orbán government has been trying to invade scientific life over the last few months clearly proves that this is not a historical change of model, it is not an epochal transformation, but rather that they can occupy universities, their wealth and their leadership as quickly and as possible. Of course, this rapid transformation also shows and proves that you, the Orbán government, are no longer confident that they will be able to win elections in 2022, and that is why they are now trying very quickly to put their trusted people in the leading positions of universities, and the assets that may be used to rescue them from the state circle and privateize them in this way, because obviously the amendment of the basic law suggests that this cannot be restored. But I have some bad news for you: you are very mistaken if you think that you can steal, attribute, because the main element of the university's wealth, the most important asset, is human capital. The university instructors and the researchers who work at the university, who go to work there in the morning and go home at night when they're done. Well, they will only go back to working at universities the next day, and they will do good research if they feel that there is freedom, that there is a free spiritual atmosphere, if they feel that there is democracy in the country. If they don't, they'll vote with their feet, and they won't stay there, and for you, there'll be nothing left but the walls, which, obviously, they won't be able to do much. Of course, you may think that I'm trying to scare you with this thing, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are looking carefully at the University of Theatre and Film Arts, and you can see what has happened there. So I think it's time to rethink this whole issue and really start and start a real university reform and not continue to save and occupy. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-08-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-08-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In your speech, István Stumpf quoted the words of Commissioner Stumpf that higher education is a matter of national strategy and that we still need the 21st century along the lines of Klebelsberg Kunó foundations. This issue has been resolved in the first century. I think there is no place for cynicism in this area. So it is true now that the Hungarian nation can be raised not by the sword, but by the cause of culture, education and talent. I think we can be very proud of Hungary that, in the face of a previous crisis period, if we look back on the crisis of 2008-2009, when education was also seriously affected by the crisis and the poor crisis management strategy of the previous government, now, in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic, during a pandemic, where, by the way, the responsibility for starting the economy is here, Hungary is in such a state that it is able to put an unprecedented amount of resources into higher education and commit itself to the direction of the 21st century. Successful, successful and resource-enriched higher education is the key point and cornerstone of Hungary's successful construction in the century. Of course, you may have a different opinion on the transformations. I understand that from a political point of view, you are attacking this transformation. However, there are facts that cannot be ignored, and the facts seem to be that we will only use EU funds to transform higher education as much as it has never been intended in Hungary, and if we look at the plans of other EU countries, for example, regarding the recovery fund, we will see that there is no other country in Europe that would spend so much of these resources to renew higher education. That's one part of it. The other part is that it is quite clear that we are thinking not only in EU funds, but also in Hungarian budgetary resources. On the one hand, they are already receiving budgetary resources in connection with the transformation, and on the other hand, the House now has a bill that strengthens the autonomy of universities by breaking away from the state in terms of management, budget and receiving assets that also have revenue-generating capacity, which these universities can then devote to both education, higher education and talent management. And from the legal environment, it's very clear that they're going to use it for this, because that's what they have to do, and the guarantee of that is the foundation, as you know very well. It is no coincidence that you may hope that the higher education staff or students will resist this wave of transformation and hope that we will be able to cheer up students as in the case of the University of Dramatic Arts, but I must imagine that for the time being, these political types of calculations have failed, because there has been only one vote on transformation in the universities and other universities, these have been held by the Senate of the universities, and at every model-shifting university the Senate, so the university community itself has supported this transformation. This is obviously not independent of what you are trying to state in vain what conditions are associated with the transformation and what the government has done to transform higher education. So, for example, in the case of your narrower Patriot, in the case of Pécs city, the programme "Modern Cities" has 25 billion forints, of which 21 billion forints have already been paid for university development. [[9.10]] It is no coincidence that Pécs University trusts in cooperation with the government, is open to a change of model, and does not want to be left out of this opportunity, despite the fact that you are doing everything you can to dissuade universities from this opportunity. I don't think this is a good strategy, and as a person from higher education, you should know exactly that something has to be done, we have done so far, but you need to see more, on the basis of the facts, that we are putting more resources into higher education, you need to see precisely on the basis of the facts that the independence of these foundations from the state is increasing. From this point of view, I simply do not understand why you are attacking on a political basis and why you do not support this transformation. I'm asking you to reconsider your strategy. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-08-4	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Let's talk about the facts. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-08-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. We have had the economic crisis caused by the epidemic and the epidemic for a year, and I think it is worth looking at how, how effectively, people have tried to save their economies, trying to keep their own countrymen's competitiveness alive. In most EU countries, the crisis has been dealt with through the introduction of state-supported employment programmes, and the Hungarian government has also done so, but, unfortunately, if we make an EU comparison, it is clear that the lowest wage support rates in Hungary have been paid by workers. More than 50 percent of workers in Croatia have access to wage subsidies, every second person. In Cyprus, more than one third of workers received wage subsidies. In Estonia and Slovenia, 20 percent of workers, even in Poland, are above 10 percent, and in Hungary about 3 percent of workers had access to this wage support. This 3 percent wage support affects 150,000 employees, but if we look at how long these fellow countrymen will have access to the wage support, we will also be in the back row at the end of the field. But you spent some 62 billion forints on this, and the ITM proudly announces how generously you have supported Hungarian workers. I think that this is shamefully small, and it is worth comparing this 62 billion forints to the laboratory country: in Austria, the same amount is equivalent to 2500 billion forints. And I think that this 50-fold multiplier will tell you everything about the crisis management of the Hungarian government. And despite all this, you're talking about thousands of billions spent on economic protection through government propaganda. The government deficit, the government debt, is at an unprecedented height, so it might even be true. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But let's see what your solution is based on the economic security. For Liget project 62.8 billion HUF, for sporting events 13.3 billion HUF, for the move of the Ministry of Finance in the Holy Trinity square and for the reconstruction of the building more than 10 billion HUF, for car-motor sports, for its support 36 billion HUF. There is no fair and reasonable amount for Hungarian wage support, but there is HUF 68 billion for the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and HUF 11 billion for the einstanded industrial park in Göd. The Tourist Agency received another HUF 90 billion, which was listed only because Zoltán Guller, who runs the Tourist Agency, is very famous for preferring to you nice entrepreneurs when we talk about granting grants. You spent 62 billion forints on wage support, compared to the renovation and preparation of the Phoenix Hall in Debrecen, 2.1 billion, 24.5 billion in the Szeged Handball Hall, 44.8 billion in the new Budapest Sports Hall, and 154 billion forints in the Nyíregyháza football academy. I must say that this is not true, my fellow Members, and, well, I would just like to mention that, in parallel, the central bank bought paintings through its own company for HUF 2.9 billion in the middle of the crisis, because György Matolcsy wants to set an example for Hungarian musicians. György Matolcsy handles the tax forints at his disposal as if it were his own property; he does the same thing as the Hungarian government, so that Lőrincek Mészáros and László Szíj could gain weight. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda responds to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let me start by saying that we do know which side you're talking about. He is talking about the left, which also had the opportunity to deal with the crisis, and he has proved what he is capable of: Hungary was on the verge of bankruptcy by 2010 thanks to his irresponsible governance, ignoring the interests of people and Hungarian businesses. Unemployment was at its peak, people were driven into foreign exchange lending, and workers were burdened with unbearable burdens. Mr President, the fact is that you are conspiring with this left, you have become part of this left, and you are working to bring this type of governance back to Hungary. Honourable Congressman, May I also remind you that we have discussed the issue of wage subsidies several times in the course of yesterday, at the request of your fellow factions. It is an important issue, but it is also important to see, honourable Member, that the situation and the facts do not show what you are talking about. It is precisely the case that the purpose of wage subsidies is to protect as many jobs as possible and to provide as many Hungarians as possible with the opportunity to work. Honourable Congressman, You highlight only one element of the economic protection action plan and the economic re-launch programme, and you are trying to draw conclusions from this only one element. But I told your fellow Members yesterday that even here the numbers are not right. If you look at it, we have managed to help 200,000 people with wage support for job protection, and through the sectoral wage support programme we have been able to provide additional 155 thousand Hungarian workers. In the framework of the sectoral wage support programme, 25,000 companies have applied for aid so far, and almost all of the funds requested have already been paid to businesses. So even in the case of wage subsidies, there are not the numbers you're talking about. More than double, Your Honour, more than double! And if we look at the wage subsidies we have been able to provide in research and development, we have also given 37,000 employees additional wage supplements to engineers, IT workers and research and development workers. Honourable Congressman, If you had listened to my answers to your fellow factions at least yesterday, you would know exactly the facts. But you don't want to ask, you don't want to make an opinion by knowing the facts, you just want to create political hysteria. Honourable Congressman, You also know perfectly well that we have used countless means of protecting the economy and re-launching the economy, with instruments that are perhaps the largest in Europe. In addition to the wage support, the Hungarian government announced a credit moratorium, perhaps the largest credit moratorium in the world, which ensures that payments are not necessary for households or businesses until 30 June 2021. [[9.20]] That is a 15-month relief, Congressman, and do not underestimate the importance of this assistance. It protects the operation and everyday life of 1.6 million families and about half a million companies. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who didn't vote?]] Honourable Congressman, The fact is, if it were up to you, there would be neither wage subsidies nor a credit moratorium. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] You have a paper, you have made it, you have a paper: when you had the opportunity to support the continuation of these programs in Parliament, you voted against. You told the Hungarian people and Hungarian families that there is no need for a credit moratorium (Bence Rétvári: That's right.) There is no need for wage support, no need for the government to provide any assistance. And why did you do that? You did it because you think that you have the political advantage of making Hungarian people and Hungarian companies worse. That is a terrible attitude, honourable Member. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and my request is to stop following this path, but to support the government's economic protection measures. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group, asked to speak with the title of News Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-08-9	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. The success of the fight against the epidemic is measured by Hungary in human lives. There are adequate numbers of protective equipment, hospital beds, respirators and doctors and nurses required to operate them. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, I think you know where those sentences came from. So forgive me for not being able to celebrate with you, for not being able to put a smile on my face when we're listening to your success reports. At the same time, I suggest you throw the confetti in the trash, pour the champagne into the drain, because you have no reason to celebrate. Over 300 people have died in the last 24 hours. Our compatriots are on their way to more than 23,000 deaths. There is no room for your celebration, your tasteless, knife-opening self-glory, when more than 22,000 Hungarian families are mourning in this country. In 22,000 Hungarian homes, grief became a constant guest. Grandparents, fathers, mothers, and children who never return from the hospital are the ones to be reckoned with. Forgive me for making me feel nauseous that while 22,000 Hungarian families are crashing in tears at home, you are celebrating here. You have nothing to celebrate, fellow Members. About your rampage, which is called defense, we became the Bergamo of the third wave, America and Sweden together. With your guidance, we have become an example in the world of what happens when an irresponsible, unmanageable government finds itself facing the virus, how panic control becomes death control. You have shown it to the world: on Tuesday, when the Prime Minister, mastered by the vaccination performance of GPs, began to emphysema, a Hungarian died every four and a half minutes. Nothing like this happened anywhere in March. And, of course, they're gonna put their hands up that it was this virus, not you. Only then will you tell me: why is this happening in Hungary and not in 192 other countries of the world? Why did the virus look like this in our country? I'll tell you, in ten years, they've bled out and neglected health care, and we've come here because of its condition. Because every year you guys pulled tens and hundreds of billions out of health care to spend on stadiums? Because you've been chasing three doctors and two nurses out of the country every day for the past few years. You remember the stats, here's the score. Because, even at the beginning of the third wave, you left 5,000 doctors out of the system, because you spent 288 billion forints on sports facilities and 60 billion for health care in the year of the epidemic, from March to March last year. You are the cause of the death of so many Hungarian, Fidesz fellow Members! Not because of Soros, not because of Brussels, not because of Bill Gates, not because of the 5 G, honourable Members. You caused the situation that according to the Vice President of the Hungarian Doctors' Union, in some hospitals people over 65 and 70 cannot turn them on a ventilator. And if you have to choose between young and older, you have a better chance of survival. You brought our doctors into such an impossible situation. Let's not sugarcoat it. You are responsible for the deaths of thousands of Hungarian people, and God only knows how they will share the victims with the virus. So far, we oppositionists thought we were only dealing with thieves and fraudsters, but you're not just taking our money, you're taking our lives. Face your actions, your omissions and their consequences, because you have to account for them in court. And I don't want any of your daily lying. I don't mind, Mr. Secretary, Deputy Minister, if you don't answer now. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They're just thinking for five minutes. Thank you very much. [[Robert Szigó: Shame on you!]]
u2021-04-08-10	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister of State, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Deputy Minister, responds to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I'm gonna answer you because I'm not gonna leave lies and such soulless sentences in the air. You know, when one of your strategists spoke last week on a television show about how the left should be conducting a targeted campaign towards the relatives of the victims, we thought that they would stop this activity for at least a few days, and they would be ashamed that this strategy had been booby-trapped. But I guess I did, and I included yesterday, that they didn't want to take any breaks in this. And in a completely soulless way, this strategist even spoke openly about the possibility that it could affect 200,000 people, 200,000 relatives. It's the most insatiable calculation of recent years. And he also said, not me, that the left had not yet taken advantage of the pain of grief. And then you will come and, in practice, present this speech in accordance with this strategy. I would say that you should be ashamed of how soulless and heartless this is, but the thing is, after the last year, we no longer have any expectations of you. To the idea that the virus looked at our country, look around the world. The third wave is raging all over Europe. There are closings everywhere, fighting everywhere, trying to get shots. And as far as medical expenses are concerned, you're rooting for a sentence in a speech once, a number that fits. Did the government spend $60 billion on health care? Is that what you said? It's just the difference, so it's not the amount, it's the difference compared to how much you spent on health care and how much we spend, it's a thousand billion dollars! We're spending a thousand billion more than you and you're coming, and in a speech before the agenda, you're talking about the government withdrawing funds. At least don't lie in the basic numbers, Your Honour. You know very well that the fight against the epidemic will depend on the situation of the vaccinations, and in this respect, it is an important weapon for the celebration, but we are talking about results, that 2.5 million Hungarians have been vaccinated and left-wing leaders have received it. After you said that there was no vaccination plan with such a noble simplicity, you said that there was no [[László Varju intervenes.]] Erzsébet Schmuck received the Chinese vaccine against which he was campaigning here, Lajos Rig, Olga Kálmán, István Ujhelyi, András Nemény, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Timea Szabó, Ákos Hadházy, Gergely Karácsony, Bence Tordai, Péter Jakab, Péter Ungár. [[László Varju: Was this the vaccination plan? Dr. Tamás Mellar: I got it, too.]] You got it, Congressman. Then just add one thing. That what they said about the non-existent vaccination plan is a lie! [[László Varju: Is this the vaccination plan?]] [[9.30]] Technically, I have not even said that it is not the oldest Members, but the younger ones. I would like to thank here professionals who are involved in the vaccination program, general practitioners, hospital workers, doctors, drivers, warehouse workers, government officials. Each vaccine purchased, tested, delivered and administered is an important and all the more important step to combat the epidemic. If they were not so exemplary, we would not be at the forefront of vaccination between EU countries. I just want to remind you that 26 percent of people in Hungary have already been vaccinated, which is what you say is a collapse. If the 26 percent collapse, then tell me, honourable Member, what is 13 percent of the EU average? Answer me that. Why are their critical remarks not intended for those who have not done more to get the vaccines ordered by Brussels in time? For once in your life, get your foreign friends to do something for the good of the country. And to suggest who takes the lives of others, those who campaign against vaccinations in the middle of the epidemic take away the lives of others. It's not too late to change it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-12	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech on the subject of current issues. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-08-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, We've been fighting the epidemic for over a year, and we've been talking about how we can fight it, how we can fight it, about the pro-government side, in recent weeks we've only heard about vaccinations. As a fact, the Hungarian CDC has given up contact research. We have been demanding from the MSZP for weeks, months, that it be continuous and that Hungarian people be tested extensively, and that contact research be continued in Hungary. The good news is, we have a big laboratory, it's Austria. And in light of that, we can decide what worked there. Orbán said more than once here, within the walls of the House, that I have a special group watching South Germany and Austria, which works there. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not find his own thoughts well enough to follow them. After all, more than 19 million tests have been carried out in Austria with roughly 8.9 million inhabitants. On the other hand, according to today's data, the counter barely exceeded 4.8 million. The government has been unable or unwilling to carry out continuous comprehensive testing since the first wave began. In addition, teachers and students are constantly tested in Austria because they realize that the epidemic can cause an extremely rapid spread of even some sick children or teachers. And here I have to mention that they want to open schools on the 19th. They want to let the kids back in, and let them say a sentence about the kids who graduated, that they've been in a pod for six months, and they want to let these kids back in by exposing them to the infection, because even teachers don't have immunity, and the kids go back to school without vaccination. In Austria, the possibility of five free quick tests per month was then introduced for the entire population in order to filter out patients who have no symptoms and can go to work, school or community. In the past, government members have declared that it is unrealistic to carry out tests on the coronal virus as widely as possible, even for all residents of the country. In fact, Gergely Gulyás even stated that since the tests are paid with taxpayers' money, we must not test everyone without reason. After Austria, national testing and restrictions were introduced in Slovakia. As a result of mass testing and other quarantines of individuals and contact persons with positive test results, the spread of the corona virus slowed by 70 percent. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Then the possibility of free testing was introduced in Germany, and there it was introduced that free tests were given to citizens on a weekly basis, and now England is following this example. We have the right to ask why you do not, when Viktor Orbán kept communicating that you will follow the patterns not only in the treatment of the epidemic, but also in the management of the economic crisis, compared to this you will not use well-established foreign examples in Hungary. In fact, in addition to testing and contact research, we demanded that 100 percent of all workers who had been diagnosed with a confirmed coronal virus infection or were closed as contact persons. We have tabled this proposal several times and you have repeatedly rejected it. You've been constantly communicating that educators who are proven to have been infected with the coronal virus afterwards, and then after a test, you can receive 100 percent of the sick. You know, fellow Members, people and families need immediate financial assistance, not after an investigation. Plus, it's cynical to investigate the fact that a teacher actually gets sick in a coronal virus infection, and we also see, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They don't dare to tell us how many teachers have started an investigation, because even if we ask written questions, you or you write down that you don't know. [[The president's ringing again.]] Or refuse to write it down. I think that we continue to demand mass testing and contact research in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-08-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You have brought up countries as examples, honourable Member, that you would like to see the Hungarian epidemiological situation. In Hungary, as has already been said here today, the rate of grafts is around 25-26 percent. You said you wanted us to stand like in Austria, 14 percent there. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] He wants us to stand like Slovakia, a little over 13 percent here. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] He wants us to stand like in Germany, 12 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Do you really want half or a third of the grafts in Hungary? ! [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] Because, honourable Member, the true security against the virus is precisely the vaccination that can guarantee everyone. You bring up examples of countries here in Parliament, while those countries are far worse at immunity than Hungary, honourable Member. You also bring up the example of Slovakia in relation to the tests, but you do not mention that a few weeks after these tests were carried out, how the epidemic started in Slovakia, which everyone was shocked to see how high the numbers were there, honourable Member. You forget to mention that it's a little selective for the socialists to think about your chronology, to highlight certain days, some weeks from the history of the last year, and to try to forget certain things. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] But if you say, honourable Member, how much we manage to protect people's lives and health, because that is really the most important thing, if we look at last year, how much more death was in the last year than in the previous year, then we can see that Hungary is ranked 9th, so the 9th is the least increase in the number of deceased compared to the previous year. Austria, as you have shown, is the 13th not the 9th, but the 13th, so back up. The Slovakia you're referring to is ranked 17th. The United Kingdom you are referring to is somewhere around 18th, honourable Member. Germany is the one with two seats in front of Hungary, Luxembourg and Germany are so before Hungary in this statement. This is an international statement of each country. [[Noise, constant interruptions from the opposition benches.]] You are setting an example here today, and this is not the first case on the part of left-wing representatives, in which last year's surplus mortality was higher than in Hungary. It provides an example of countries with a much lower level of grafting than in Hungary, honourable Member. And what do you do? What does the Hungarian Socialist Party do when the British virus mutant broke into Hungary when he appeared here? [[9.40]] Obviously, it appeared first in Britain, then it appeared either by transferring guest workers or others, but also in Central Europe. What socialist leading politicians said to the Hungarian people, István Ujhelyi, just two months ago: the government decision in force should be too strict, it should be opened; the government's decree of 11 November was unthinkable last November; it should be reviewed by the government. That is what you said when the British virus mutant, which is more dangerous to Hungary than before, broke in faster and with more serious consequences. That is what you said, honourable Member, that we should open restaurants, open shops and meet other people without barriers. That's what you said, literally, exactly. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Nobody said that!]] Don't shake your head, Congresswoman. That is what you said when the British viral mutant arrived in Hungary. Then I didn't see you shake your head, that István Ujhelyi said the wrong sentences, but then you applaud him enthusiastically, and said, "Open, open." Now he's shaking his head saying no, no, no. Congresswoman, you should have shook your head and said that István Ujhelyi was wrong. If we look at your party president, what he said about Chinese and Russian vaccines, he said that the Prime Minister announced that millions of elderly people would be vaccinated from an untested vaccine, which has not been confirmed by professionals. What does Bertalan Tóth, your party president, mean? That he would not inoculate millions of people in Hungary with these vaccines. [[Zoltán Varga interrupts: That's true now! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and László Varju intervene.]] You, honourable Member, have proclaimed the policy of not inoculating me. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] According to the numbers so far, a million people with Chinese and Russian vaccines. A million more people would still be exposed to the British viral mutant and the coronal virus. [[Zoltán Varga interrupts: "That's not true!]] It was your full viral treatment, your total opening, and your ability to inoculate less people and slower. This is the biggest attack on the Hungarian people than you would have sent the vaccines that arrived here to China from Ferihegy airport, there is no greater attack on the Hungarian people, and no one would have put the Hungarian people at greater risk than the Hungarian left would have put the Hungarian people at risk. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-16	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply and ask my fellow Members with due respect, perhaps it would be more pleasant to listen to each other, and I think that this is not a choir competition, but a speech before the agenda. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title Media and Election. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The journalist provoked me with questions. No, dear fellow Fidesz, this is not one of the headlines of the North Korean news, but the headline of the M1, which is maintained jointly by all of the HUF 120 billion of Hungarian taxpayers, including the half of the country with opposition. Don't you feel the terrible shame of this? What's the next step? Maybe we should interrogate the reporters, huh? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: András Fekete-Győr would do this.]] Lucky for you, the journalist was Austrian, so I guess that's why we're not here yet, there's nothing else stopping them from doing that. [[Bence Rétvári: András Fekete-Győr announced this.]] It's true, isn't it? We see it. Comrade Bede has revealed, I'm sorry, Editor Bede, that according to a leaked recording, only fidesz propaganda should be distributed in the public media, which is reserved for all of us from our common tax forints. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Can you ban Andras Fekete-Győr? Would you stop it?]] In addition, since 2010 only Fidesz delegates have been present in the Media Council. As Vice-President of the opposition committee that elected members of the Media Council, I was very close to escorting through that incredible arrogance, the incredible power pride that you guys managed to manage, despite the fact that the five opposition groups agreed on the experts that we wanted to delegate from the opposition side to the Media Council, the five factions were able to agree in one expert, and you did not allow this one in, because you fear that if one opposition representative sits in the Media Council, then all their criminal dealings will be revealed even more, not only in relation to leaked recordings. According to the Council of Europe's report on the Hungarian media situation, there are very, very serious concerns about the high concentration of power in the hands of the National Media and Communications Authority supervising the media, the telecommunications sector and the use of spectrum, and in the hands of the Media Council. As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I have listened to a very detailed analysis of the very negative processes that we have seen in 2018. The OSCE observers found that the Hungarian election was free, but it was not fair, precisely because of distorted media conditions. We remember when you and your staff ripped off the People's Party Jobbik, you're working. They're stealing. The posters. We remember this well, don't we? To me, in Sopron, on Friday, all my posters were centrally abused with their straight-black paint distributed from the Fidesz office. So we can see that, of course, your reaction, I quote Minister Varga:, There is nothing to see, the rule of law in Hungary is fine, because we had the Golden Bull. Well, as a linguist-historian, I'd like to point out that there was a resistance clause in the Golden Bull, and even taste it in the Szájer Fundamental Law. Even in the Szájer Fundamental Law, no political force can strive to impose the entire power of state as you have been doing for 11 years. It is now the university world, as my fellow Member Mellar indicated. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári interrupts, "Are you all right in the mask?"]] And Judit Varga dares to say with his mouth that it is only a ploy in Brussels. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Although, in the end... Mr. Secretary, listen to me for a second, okay? ! It's not that bad if you hear some truth in the walls. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Answer me! Is that okay? Is that democratic?!]] He doesn't just repeat the roganian propaganda. I understand it's hard to bear. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Although, in the end... Mr. Secretary, listen to me for a second, okay? ! It is not so bad if you hear some truth within the walls (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Answer! Is that okay? Is that democratic? ! He's not just repeating the roganian propaganda. I understand this is hard to bear (Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes. The president's ringing. You might want to intern me, too, but it's not that bad. (Dr. Bence Rétvári interrupts.) So, we're seeing that this is the only Varga Judit clause that's backed up and then the Justice Committee's visionary president from your background power, so there's a real problem here, comrades. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He says it's a myth in Brussels. I would like to point out that the rule of law and governance by law are not the same. Do you understand? The rule of law means that no fidesz has the right to fire a Siófok nurse because of a like, no fidesz has the right to take another man's business, no fidesz has the right to take another's land. I've got some good news. In addition to the fact that we hope that the national unity government will rise in 2022 to return the public media to Hungarian citizens, the James government [[Noise, interruptions, clearness in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The James government, according to all polls, we hope, is a government of national unity because all decent right-wing people will vote for us because you have dismantled civil democracy. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Long live Gyurcsány! You're not gonna tell me at the end?]]
u2021-04-08-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Minister of State, wishes to respond. Here's to you, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-08-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I had a feeling that we were reliving the debates that took place in 2010, then we could see that Hungarian freedom of the press had been buried a hundred times, a thousand times because of the new regulation. However, honourable Member, at the end of a dialogue, even the European Commission said that Hungarian legislation is in order, so we even have a stamp from Brussels that it complies with the principles of the rule of law. By the way, as far as the delegates were concerned, they were in the former media surveillance system, so much so that even among the delegates to the civilian community, we found civilians like István Ujhelyi, you know? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: A real civilian István Ujhelyi!]] So that media regulation system ended, that self-righteous media regulation system. By the way, as regards the wider issues concerning the Hungarian media, I consider it natural that there is a debate about the situation of the Hungarian media from time to time in Hungarian public life, the public tone and, in general, the press relations. This is practically the case since the change of regime. There are many kinds of opinions, but what I think the point is that you can say that the Hungarian press is diverse and that every opinion, every information, can break its way. [[9.50]] We can say this, because the Hungarian press is diverse, everyone can find media matching their own tastes, world views and needs, and we have been alerted to the phenomenon that the more diverse the Hungarian public, you and your foreign allies shout the louder that there is a problem with the freedom of the press in Hungary. For example, in 2013 the number of Hungarian printed press products was 3,200, now approaching 7,000; there are more televisions; the number of Internet portals increased by 40 percent, today the Hungarian public is much more diverse than before. Moreover, if you look at the media that claim to be the largest, they are all government critics without exception. That's the thing. And after that, you're going to talk about limited publicity. By the way, I find your suggestions a little strange when we talk about the public and your politics, because Jobbik's party foundation directly finances portals close to Jobbik. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Wow! Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] Not in double forints, but in a hundred million items, not once, but for many years. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Public money!]] And there are party people sitting in the funding foundation, so if you've raised this issue, Parliamentary Representative, Communications Director, Regional Director. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Public money!]] And there are party people sitting at the fund-raising foundation that if you've raised this issue, Parliamentary Representative, Communications Director, Regional Director. (Dr. Brenner Koloman interrupts.) Among these media, we also find an embarrassing page and a medium that commemorates Adolf Hitler's birthday (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Public Money!) When we talk about content issues. When it comes to the media, we have a lot of opinions, but I certainly do not consider it my job to classify the work and activities of individual editorials. You are in a different way, and that doesn't just mean verbal certification if it's just that! It's also personal pressure. We didn't break into the newsroom, you did. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] We didn't break into the TV station, you did. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] We're not talking about banning journalists for years, you are. Not the leaders of the governing parties boycott certain televisions, but the left-wing leaders to run to Brussels with the same momentum to lament Hungarian freedom of the press. I am sorry that they are connecting to the series of threats that Ferenc Gyurcsány has started over the past few weeks and months, and not only are they connecting, but they are also competing with each other, not only in words, but also in style. I think it's unfortunate, it's unworthy. So in these circumstances, if there is a political force that threatens the diversity of the Hungarian public, it is the left. They would go back to the time when, with a little exaggeration, the Sunrise reported the Hungarian public's publicity. At that time, no one had a word, either on the left or in the OSCE, perhaps mentioned the OSCE, no one had a word when they said to Péter Medgyessy that those who needed television should buy it themselves. Where were those voices then? Where were the international organizations? Answer me that, please. We do not want to see this period again, because there is much more opinion in the Hungarian public today, the Hungarian media is much more diverse [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And it's okay even if you don't like it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-20	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Ms Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP Group: on current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-08-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The epidemic continues to spread intensively, and its third wave is stronger than it has been before in Europe, but despite the crisis, we cannot go back to aid-based farming; as has been the case so far, we must continue on the path of the work-based economy, so the next period must be about starting the economy again. The first stage of the step reboot was made possible by the fact that we have already exceeded 2.5 million vaccinees, the 2.6 million vaccinees today. Despite all the challenges posed by the coronal virus, the disciplined and rigorous public finances of recent years have allowed no budgetary obstacles to the protection of human lives and the re-launch of the economy during the treatment of the coronal virus epidemic. In response to the crisis caused by the coronal virus, the government responded by targeting assistance in the interest of providing adequate support for the most vulnerable sectors, in particular tourism and catering. At the beginning of February, the government announced an economic re-launch action plan to help families and businesses in distress with new measures. In the first round, he decided to use HUF 6,000 billion of economic development resources. As part of the action plan, it is important to highlight the introduction of a new credit facility for small and medium-sized enterprises in trouble due to the corona virus epidemic, which can use a loan free of interest for 10 years, which should only start after three years. This interest-free fast loan of HUF 10 million will help the most vulnerable small and medium-sized enterprises. The extension of the credit moratorium until 30 June 2021 is also part of the action plan and is an important part of it. The credit moratorium helps and helps hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. According to the government's decision at the end of last year, everyone, private person, household, company, individual entrepreneur will be entitled to a moratorium on credit repayment along the original terms. Ninety-eight thousand of the companies were eligible, of which nearly half a million companies made use of the credit moratorium. The Hungarian people want to make a living from work, and this is also demonstrated by the fact that after the fall last year, more than 4.5 million people are working in Hungary again, so one of the most important tasks is the preservation of jobs in the epidemiological preparedness. So far, more than 155 000 workers have received sectoral wage subsidies from companies operating in sectors in difficulty due to the corona virus. So far, some 25,000 companies have applied for sectoral wage support, and they are now eligible for the April wages, and the employer's contribution is still not payable for the workers concerned. Half of the salary of the supported worker is reimbursed up to a minimum wage of one and a half times the current minimum wage. The state also releases contributions, so it covers about two thirds of the salary to keep businesses on their feet, to keep jobs, and to keep skilled professionals. 57 percent of the beneficiaries are catering, more than 14 percent work in the economic sector of accommodation services. It is also an important message, in addition to the fight against the corona virus, that the Hungarian village programme will continue, in new categories the local self-governments, local government associations, church communities and civil society organisations can submit their applications. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarians taking part in the national consultation are also saying that the country and the economy must be restarted stepwise. In addition to relaunching the economy, we must now focus all our efforts on vaccination. The government made its decision on the basis of recommendations from experts; if we followed the opposition's proposals, there would be a lot less vaccine today in Hungary, and the left-wing parties demanded an immediate opening during the third wave, and now they are criticizing us for the rebooting. There is no reason to deny to the opposition that it was carrying out an anti-vaccination campaign or giving rise to an anti-vaccination mood or that it was attacking the decisions of the licensing authorities. Just as protection against the virus can only be directed by responsible politicalisation, responsible and consistent behaviour for our statements. We will continue to re-launch the economy and in the vaccinations so that the Hungarian people can get it back as soon as possible. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] their lives before the virus. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Schanda wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to begin by thanking everyone who is involved in the defence and working hard and sacrifice. Thanks and thanks to doctors, nurses, law enforcement workers, soldiers, but allow me to highlight specifically health care students who are in the hospital, who are in the ambulance service and wherever they are needed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The third wave of the coronal virus epidemic has proved to be stronger across Europe than it has been before, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Italy and Greece, and we all know that these countries are well aware that vaccination is the only way to fight this epidemic. [[10.00]] It is therefore a pleasure to report that Hungary is leading the EU vaccination ranking alongside Malta, and Hungary will be the European country where the fastest vaccine is available for everyone who wants to be vaccinated. 26 percent of the Hungarian population have already been vaccinated, and this is contrary to the fact that the EU average is 13 percent. This shows that vaccinations in Hungary are practically twice as fast. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of their risk, registered older people still have primary vaccinations, but 85 percent of those over 65 years of age who have been registered so far have already received vaccination. In addition, Hungarian teachers and Hungarian teachers will be extinguished, either in public education or in vocational training. The number of Hungarians registered for vaccination is already approaching four million, and the good news is that this number has increased by about 1.5 million in the last five weeks. Allow me to encourage all Hungarians from here to register and ask for vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Hungarian people decided, in the context of the consultation on the reboot, how the reopening and opening should take place. Thank you to the more than half a million, 528,000 people who have given their views on this very important issue. Thus, among other things, 88 percent of respondents believe that the epidemiological restrictions currently in force should be gradually and step by step lifted. According to 74 percent of the participants in the consultation, if allowed by the epidemiological situation, the first steps should be to reduce the curfew after 8:00 p.m., of course with strict safety rules. And since the number of vaccinees exceeded 2.5 million on Tuesday, a gradual reboot could start from Wednesday, including in accordance with the rules described by you and on the basis of the views expressed in the consultation. In keeping with strict rules, shops and services could be opened from Wednesday. However, the protection measures currently in force against the epidemic have been extended, and the most important of them are, in part, masking within the residential area in all streets and public areas, complying with a protective distance of at least one and a half metres from the other person, and, if possible, instead of working where possible, switching to home work. Again, we ask the Hungarian people to abide by these rules in order to protect the lives and health of themselves and of their fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The virus has started a war against us, and in this fight, the path to victory is the vaccine, and Hungary will continue to do everything in its power to ensure that there is enough vaccine for mass vaccination, because all life matters to us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-24	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz Group, also came forward before the agenda, with the title of Facts versus Green Campaigns. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-08-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, MEPs from LMP have recently tabled a resolution proposal entitled Green reform in animal farming, which the Committee on Agriculture has decided not to consider fit to go before Parliament. Here we could end the life of this dark green game, but I find the proposal so offensive and professionally unfounded for those working in Hungarian agriculture that we cannot pass without saying a word. In opposition internal struggles, the LMP also tries to collect sympathizers with a radical environment. But I beg you not to do so at the expense of Hungarian farmers, and not without reason. They remind me of the Spanish activist group who, please, separated the roosters from the hen because the roosters sexually harass the hen. Well, they understand the way the created world works, too. Let us see, please, how irresponsible it is to condemn a sector from a distance, without knowing every day, and to coordinate society against it by putting some of our fellow Members on an equal footing between animal husbandry and climate change. In addition to deliberately slipping, they endanger the livelihoods of tens of thousands of Hungarians working in the Hungarian agriculture, but I go on: they also endanger the security of the food supply of the domestic population. On the part of many European green organizations, it is fashionable to scare people with the fact that keeping animals is harmful, the biggest responsibility for climate change is that the farmer, the man working on the land, is harming society. Of course, none of this is true! Let me give you a piece of data. In 2016, less than 4 percent of the total greenhouse gas emissions from the USA came from livestock production. This figure is not higher in Europe! But let us look at the European Union Green Deal, which you refer to as an exemplary one, which, for example, would generally reduce the current use of fertilisers in all EU countries. But how is that? Currently 91.9 kg of the active substance is used per hectare in Hungary, in Belgium 167 kg, in the Netherlands 138 kg. And it is not expected that this will be reduced at EU level, but that all countries should reduce by 20% by 2030. Let's look at the pesticides. We have 1.8 kilograms, more than three times this in the Netherlands, 5,9, Belgium 4.9, Italy 4.7 kilograms. Now, they're expecting a 50 percent reduction here, of course, from country to country. You're feeling politics against your own country, aren't you? The EU Green Deal, supported by you, is a desire-driven assassination against EU farmers, which at the moment has no EU impact assessment. But the U.S. Department of Agriculture has already done a study. This means that the implementation of this strategy will increase food prices in the European Union by 17 or even 60 percent. While the European Union's agriculture is being made impossible, the EU would simultaneously allow the influx of an incurable amount of food products from South American countries, where 27 pesticides that were banned in Europe years ago, even decades ago, are still being used to date. You copy all sorts of Brussels material, and then you try to say something big while you only see the real world on RTL. Please at least go to a farm every once in a while. Where when dark green glasses are removed, they will also see real green, because the farmer is one of the greatest environmentalists. You know, he's the one who works in nature, out in the fields, and he's got an elemental interest in protecting the land, because he's gonna want to throw it there next year, and he's gonna want to clean it up. And that Hungarian agriculture is an animal torturer? 'Cause that's what they're suggesting. Let's look at the facts. In the European Union, Hungary spends the most on animal welfare aid for an animal unit. And when they talk about reducing the levels of antibiotics used in animal husbandry, they bang open doors. I would point out that the livestock owner not only has an obligation but also has a fundamental economic interest in rationalising the use of veterinary medicinal products. Ladies and gentlemen, At the time of the coronal virus epidemic, the Hungarian agriculture proved its viability, and the government strongly supports the operation of the sector, the Hungarian countryside. There will be unprecedented resources for agriculture in the coming years. I strongly ask all political players not to attack farmers. Unfortunately, cases in Western Europe are not subject to specific atrocities, such as the release of livestock or the refusal to allow farmers to use machines. Fortunately, this is not the case in Hungary. Please don't bring this ideology in here. I feel that when some people attack Hungarian farmers irresponsiblely, in the hope of political gain, we must raise our voice. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what we did in the commission. [[The president's ringing again.]] That's why I asked you to speak now. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister. [[10.10]]
u2021-04-08-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman! Thank you very much for bringing this extremely important topic to Parliament, and even if only for a few minutes, we have the opportunity to have a few words about it. However, I do not see that there is much interest in this subject in the opposition benches. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Most of them are from LMP!]] The LMP's proposal for a decision is unacceptable, both professionally and morally. In an emergency situation caused by a coronal virus epidemic, it kicks into the sector that provides the livelihood of tens of thousands of people, and thanks to whom safe, high-quality food can be placed on our tables every day. Thanks and thanks are due to Hungarian farmers, because even in the greatest difficulties they produce and supply the country with excellent domestic food. With regard to the European Commission's programme, the Green Agreement, our view is that the agricultural sector, I stress, can only contribute to achieving the objectives of the agreement by creating an opportunity and not an inexorable burden for the players in the sector. Only well-thought-out new rules and targets with realistic conditions for European agriculture can be adopted for Hungary. A responsible decision should be taken only on the basis of studies and studies which analyse the expected effects appropriately. As Mr President said, one of the objectives of the strategy is to reduce the use of pesticides by 50 per cent by 2030 and to reduce the use of the most dangerous pesticides by 50 per cent. The practical implementation of integrated plant protection is of particular importance in achieving this objective. In Hungary, the quantity of pesticides per hectare is below 1.7 kilograms, which is below the EU average. Since 2011, EU Member States have reduced pesticide use and the resulting risks by 17 percent. The progress made so far must, of course, be taken into account in the implementation of the strategy. Here, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members and those who are dealing with this issue, to the fact that there are so many programmes of the Agricultural Ministry, the agricultural sector, which contribute significantly to measures that mitigate the effects of environmental damage and environmental factors. I would just like to mention two examples to you. For example, there is the nationalisation programme, which changes a significant part of it, can change the climate conditions of Hungary and, of course, also serves the common good. Here are the new ideas that determine a significant part of the agriculture of the coming decades: the introduction of digitalisation, precision farming, automation, robotics and, last but not least, precision irrigation, irrigation programmes, and perhaps the fundamental issue is that we have a new education system. This is all for the purpose of continuing environmental management in Hungary, which, in combination with efficiency and environmental protection, has considerable support for farmers. The objective of increasing the share of ecological areas is realistic only with appropriate incentives and support. It should be taken into account that compliance with organic farming conditions also entails additional costs. In order to maintain the competitiveness of organic farmers, such a proposal is successful only if the cost difference in relation to conventional farming farmers is compensated for by organic farmers. As far as animal welfare aid is concerned, they are already an incentive since they can only be claimed for animal welfare commitments that go beyond the relevant mandatory requirements. In domestic livestock farms, beyond European standards, the animal welfare responsible for official training will have to be designated. As regards promoting the consumption of animal products, it is necessary to state that the principle of modern nutrition is the development of a varied diet, including the consumption of animal products. In most cases, imitations introduced to replace animal products do not constitute a physiologically appropriate alternative. Not to mention that we encourage the purchase of Hungarian products, so we protect and support Hungarian jobs. But I see that the LMP's thinking is far from the support of Hungarian people, and their thoughts are in the mood and alarm. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-08-28	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The speech by Roma representative Félix Farkas, before the speaker's agenda, will now take place in a five-minute period of time with the title Opre Roma. I give the floor to Mr Félix Farkas, who describes the first sentences in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Patyivalo Raja Prezidento, Patyivalo Themesko Kher! But patyivasa najisarav tumen andel ungrikone romengo anav pe Romengo Kulturako Lyumako Dyes! Mr President, Dear House, Welcome, on behalf of the Gypsy in Hungary, to the World Roma Culture Day. 8 April is the World Roma Culture Day. This day is regarded as one of the most important national celebrations by Gypsies from all over the world. Today, 50 years ago, on 8 April 1971, the first Roma World Congress decided, among other things, on the use of uniform Roma national symbols, the Gelem Gypsy anthem, the Opre Roma! Up, gypsies! His slogan and the Gypsy flag. Later, in 1990, at the fourth Roma World Congress in Warsaw, it was decided to recognise 8 April as an international Roma festival. Finally, the UN declared 8 April as World Roma Culture Day. All my fellow spokespersons could talk about dual identity for a long time. We are all proud of our mother tongue, nationality, origin, culture, and our people's consciousness in our hearts. But being a gypsy is not easy, without home, there must be a much stronger bond between each other in order for the Roma to live as a community in all countries of the world. We are lucky because Hungary protects its nationalities. This, of course, required the help of our famous ruins to enrich the universal human culture, and it must not be possible to unravel a well-known 100-membered Gypsy Orchestra from its rehearsal hall downtown, and not to erase the Gypsy Orchestra of Józsefváros from its cultural palette. The Hungarian government supports the Roma and their art, as it is now, with an extraordinary support of HUF 30 million for the 100 Gypsy Orchestra, which I would like to thank Minister Miklós Kásler on their behalf. The opposition is using us as a political battlefield. And, of course, we also need everyone in Hungary to know and acknowledge our Hungarian Roma musicians. Without the need for completeness I can mention Tamás Péli or István Szentandrássy, whose work was recognized by the current government with the Kossuth Prize in 2012. Our culture is enriched and nurtured by writers and poets of Gypsy origin, such as Menyhért Lakatos, Magda Szécsi, Károly Bari, József Choli Daróczi, Béla Ostojkán or Géza Csemer. But I could tell you more. The music culture is enriched by the works of Sándor Lakatos, Sándor Járóka, Margit Bangó, János Bihari, Czinka Panna, György Cziffra, Jancsi Rigó, Pista Dankó, Zoltán Mága. It would be an endless list of all of them. We can be proud of our theatre artists who take on their Roma origins, such as Sándor Csányi, Júlia Csiki, Franciska Farkas, Judit Jonah, Dezső Szegedi or Oscar Summer. Our athletes, such as István Pisont, Zsombor Kerekes or Norbert Balogh, are increasing the reputation of our country. World famous and Roma: Elvis Presley, Kalcutta Happy Teréz, Carlos Santana, Zlatan Ibrahimović, Eric Cantona, Charlie Chaplin, Karel Gott. Their gypsyry has been proudly undertaken or undertaken to this day. [[10.20]] On International Roma Day, we celebrate a valuable and diverse Roma culture. Although cultural programmes and celebrations and professional forums may not take place for the second time this year, we all remember in our own way, on social networks and online form that our countrymen of Roma nationality are an integral part of Hungarian society and the whole world with centuries of historical history. With Romano Teatro's Gypsy National Theatre for many years, according to Indian folk tradition, hundreds of people have gone to the Hernád River, along with music and singing, we send wreaths, flowers, petals and floating candles to the water. Unfortunately, this year, because of the pandemic, this is not happening, but our culture is within us, and we are proud to be able to color Hungary with it. Opre Roma! Up, gypsies! Thank you very much for your attention. Take care. Let's take care of each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-30	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Speaker, Dear House, For us, the strengthening of national culture and the strengthening of identity has been extremely important over the last ten years, as has the Hungarian national culture, the Gypsy culture, the Sváb culture, the strengthening of the identity and culture of the Hungarian Bulgarians and everyone else is extremely important. Therefore, if you look at the budget lines, while ten years ago 172 billion forints were on the cultural lines, this 172 billion is now 470 billion forints, because we do believe that national culture is worth strengthening. Political people on the other side think in a globalist, internationalist world, as is the economy, and culture for them is a global solution tool, and we do not need to create anything Hungarian, but only one or another of the cultural elements that occur in other parts of the world. On the other hand, we do not believe in a culture that puts national culture in the background, but in a culture that strengthens national culture, which is why we have helped by law either the creation of the Academy of Arts or the strengthening of other cultural areas. Gypsy music, the Gypsy culture is an integral part of all of our lives and the lives of our parents and grandparents here in Hungary for centuries. Gypsy music is hungaricum, and we tried to contribute to the rebirth of the genre with special programs. Here, it was an important step not only to develop but also to protect existing values. The left has used the Gypsy many times as a tool for a political attack, but he never really wanted to improve their situation, he only used one or another conflict to generate tension, but then he left the Gypsy people behind. Well, he wasn't particularly concerned about the VII. In the district, Péter Niedermüller, not to the 100 Gypsy Orchestra, but soon after his entry into power, dropped them off from their traditional practice sites. Finally, the right-wing mayor of Budafok accepted the 100-member Gypsy Orchestra, and the EMMI provided an extraordinary support of HUF 30 million to the 100-member Gypsy Orchestra. We are talking about a Hungarian Heritage Award winner, Hungaricum Prize winner, 36-year-old and world-wide ensemble. With reason, it is incomprehensible why the most important thing for a left-wing mayor is to drop them off from their traditional practice site, while a few years earlier I am also a gypsy! He made a sign against Jobbik, the merger between Jobbik and Fidesz. Well, they've put out the gypsy band since then, but they've put Jobbik in their own political circles. This shows that they're zeros out of authenticity. I would like to continue with the more positive topics, and perhaps leave the Hungarian left for a few minutes. The program. Muzsikáló Magyarország.The program helped bring back the gypsy music of the restaurant and café in Hungary, which has an old tradition, which is part of the universal Hungarian music culture. In 2017 the series "Musikáló Budapest" was launched, linked to Imre Kerényi, an excellent director and theatre director who has died since then. The program made the live gypsy music available in 52 restaurants in Budapest and in the countryside between 1 August and 2 November. At least three hours a day during the six days of the week, gypsy orchestras had to be employed under this programme in order to provide live music there. This had a budget of HUF 800 million, but since this is an important goal, the government raised another HUF 200 million, so we could use a total of HUF 1 billion. The House of Tradition also specializes in gypsy music, so the framework for the Gypsy music certification exam has been developed to help the best possible quality. Activating Roma cultural communities within the framework of the programme, we provided a framework of HUF 200 million to support regular groups within cultural support and to provide cultural experience to communities. Thus, the maximum amount of aid that could be claimed was HUF 10 million per applicant. The National Institute of Culture, which also carries out cultural public tasks, has launched programmes aimed at raising awareness of Roma culture and, on the other hand, the service of social inclusion, the strengthening of identity and the strengthening of mutual acceptance through the tools of art and culture; thus, they were able to create a bridge. Last year their programme was implemented in 57 settlements, and in two years 35 projects were implemented in 80 settlements. But I could mention the European Union project, where trainings and summer camps, youth communities are developed, or even residential camp for making moving pictures, videos, or even for helping our fellow gypsy, Roma-born countrymen to work in the field of public education in the employment and training programme. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In which we know, we are also trying to strengthen the Hungarian national culture and the Hungarian Gypsy culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-32	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with general debates. In view of the pandemic situation, only the next speaker and our fellow Members waiting for two subsequent speeches should be present in the Chamber as far as possible. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain law enforcement administrative laws to strengthen public security until closure. Government referral T/15705. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-04-08-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us aims to implement EU legislation and to strengthen the security of Hungarian people. It is the unbroken practice of the Ministry of the Interior to seek the position of the parliamentary parties before the trial of fundamental legislative proposals. In the case of this bill, too, we have given the parties the opportunity to express their views in person or in writing, to express their views, but unfortunately none of the opposition parties have made use of this option. Dear Parliament, I would first like to talk about the draft implementing measures of the Frontex regulation. The aim of this draft implementing regulation, i.e. the draft implementing regulation of Frontex, is to make the action of the European Union more effective in the areas of external border control, return and the fight against cross-border crime and asylum. On the Balkan route, the movement of irregular migrants is steadily increasing with the active participation of smugglers, by road, rail and by foot. It can be said that migrants use all, in many cases, unimaginable ways to cross the border. The numbers are a serious security challenge. Let me also explain the latest figures. Until midnight yesterday, between 1 January 2021 and 7 April 2021, the number of persons entering or attempting illegal entry was 24,956 persons, with a daily average of 257 illegal entry attempts. In comparison, I would like to say that between 1 January 2020 and 7 April 2020 8978 people have been illegally trying to enter Hungary illegally, on average 92 people on a daily basis, so this is an increase of nearly three times. Dear Parliament, Today, security is the most important Community value, and Hungary is doing its best to preserve it. Hungary is one, if not the safest country in Europe, thanks to the measures taken by the government. [[10.30]] The government is constantly monitoring the refugee situation. We've confirmed border protection. The amendments contained in this bill aim to make Hungarian police involvement in Frontex's operations more attractive, thereby making it more effective to protect our borders and increase Hungary's security. Currently, 17 Hungarian experts with long-term contracts and 28 short-term contracts serve as part of Frontex operations abroad. The proposal we have just tabled contains the following. The police and the National Directorate-General for Foreign Police conclude a cooperation agreement to ensure the smooth implementation of the Frontex Regulation, establish the legal basis for the transfer of data to Frontex, and the possibility for Frontex to be managed abroad not exceeding one year, to be ordered by the national commander or the national director-general, as fast orderability is a fundamental interest. In addition, the regulation ensures that this can take place in addition to leaving the post of duty, so that it can return to the original post of Frontex service after the end of the Frontex service. Dear Parliament, We also propose amending the law on facial image analysis and facial image analysis. The purpose of this is to increase the results of the facial analysis activity by including eye facial image profiles in the criminal record system managed by the criminal record body. The amendment concerns two areas. In one case, the citizen whose data is already included in the facial profile register will have a new and better quality image in the facial profile register. In the other case, the register is extended by the facial image of persons of foreign nationality who have not yet been included in it, as they have no facial image in the records of the bodies required to disclose data to the facial profile register. This will help to promote a higher level of professional support for law enforcement, crime prevention, detection, counterintelligence and activities in migration processes. The tightening of unauthorized driving is for the safety of road users, and therefore, in addition to the professional proposals of the Ministry of Interior, we have also taken into account the proposals of Mr Zsolt Molnár. In today's world, the use of motor vehicles is an integral part of our daily lives, but, despite the well-known traffic rules and technological developments, driving is still a dangerous plant. Because of the danger to the outlying society, the bill defines as a criminal offence the case where unauthorized driving is prohibited from driving in infringement proceedings or in criminal proceedings. In the event of a misdemeanor, while in the case of a criminal offence, a criminal offence is committed. The residence card and permanent residence card issued to the family member of a third-country national of the EEA State in order to implement EU acts in Hungary will be a biometric document in the same format as the residence permit in the future. In addition, a permanent residence card issued to a third-country family member of a European Economic Area national is proposed to be renamed by the bill, so that it will be named if it is adopted. We also propose amending the law on firearms and ammunition. Civil pyrotechnic activities shall not be lawfully exercised by incapacitated persons, persons with limited capacity to act, or persons under guardianship restricting their capacity to act. The existence of personal conditions shall be examined by the police which authorised the activity. The right of infringement applies the concept of damage mainly in relation to the regulation of compensation for damage. These provisions lay down rules for the enforcement of civil claims in infringement proceedings without the law defining the concept of damage. The proper classification of the facts requires that the concepts of damage and property disadvantage are treated in a uniform manner by the Violation Act and the Criminal Code Act. There are infringements that are considered to be infringements below a certain threshold, while beyond that they are criminal offences, and the proposal therefore promotes uniform application of the law and legal certainty by clarifying the concept of damage in the application of the infringement law. Dear Parliament, The bill also contains detailed rules for the transposition of the cybersecurity rule established by the European Parliament and Council into domestic law. The conformity assessment body shall be accredited by the designated national accreditation bodies on the basis of the relevant Union legislation and shall organise in detail the tasks and responsibilities of the certification authority. The provisions of the cybersecurity legislation on the establishment of a national institutional system shall apply from 28 June 2021. Dear Parliament, In addition to complying with EU legislation, the adoption of the bill also serves to strengthen the security of the Hungarian people in addition to improving the efficiency of individual administrations. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-34	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of the Interior for bringing this package of proposals before us. I thank you, first of all, because during a pandemic, when our lives are not in the normal, calm way, all the measures and objectives that strengthen people's safety and security are very important. The bill before us contains amendments to twenty laws. We are used to having such a formal proposal before us every six months from the Ministry of the Interior. I admit that this is a particularly good and useful solution, because the small amendments that are required from time to time, dictated by life or EU requirements, are acceptable in this way. The main issues have been presented by the Secretary of State and highlighted, but I would also like to mention some amendments which make the Fidesz faction strongly supportive of the proposal. First of all, as Mr Secretary of State, I would like to mention the Frontex regulation adopted in 2019, on which the proposal contains the necessary amendments, since it is absolutely necessary to transform, strengthen and broaden the mandate of the organisation. The importance of protecting the Union's external borders and combating cross-border crime cannot be sufficiently emphasised. Support for participation in related operations is also important if Frontex does not focus its activities on further strengthening the Hungarian border section, but we know that the protection of Europe also serves the protection of Hungary, and therefore we must do everything we can to ensure that Frontex operates successfully. FRONTEX can continue to rely on the Hungarian police to strengthen the EU's border protection. The proposal also reflects this intention. The amendments to the law on entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, the law on entry and residence of third-country nationals, the law on asylum, the law on the criminal record system, the law on a circumstantial record system and the law on facial image analysis and the facial image analysis system are also intended to protect our borders and to strengthen the security of free movement within EU borders. In part, compliance with Union rules justifies these amendments, which aim to increase security in relation to the various documents and authorisations, to clarify or strengthen the rules on the issue and withdrawal of documents or licences, to clarify the rules of the asylum procedure and to increase the effectiveness of official controls and investigations. Among these, the introduction of residence cards including biometric data and the further development of the facial analysis system may best serve to increase security by facilitating the work of the authorities. [[10.40]] Mr State Secretary mentioned it, and during the study of the bill, I also noticed that a previous proposal by our fellow Member Zsolt Molnár concerning the tightening of the rules for unauthorized driving has been included in this package of proposals, and we have to conclude that the past months have provided more regrettable and legitimate examples of public uprisings as to why these restrictions are necessary. I also thank my fellow Member for his constructiveness and the willingness of the Ministry of the Interior. Hopefully, the tightening up in the proposal will be sufficient to further improve road safety in our country. Mr State Secretary has also mentioned and I also consider it important to amend the use of pyrotechnic articles. There was also a dialogue between the government and the opposition, on which, at the same time, it should be seen that the current regulation seeks to achieve a balance, which results in the use of pyrotechnic articles, which is legal and limited, which is just enough to meet the needs of the population, but which can be monitored well. The subtle refinement of this system of rules is also reflected in this bill, which serves to increase the safety of the incompetent, the limited capacity and the caretakers and their environment. There are also a number of similar minor amendments to the proposal, such as electronic information security, rules on the accommodation of law enforcement institutions, strengthening the order of prison institutions or adapting to the conversion of vocational training systems. With these small-scale proposals, I think it is understandable why they were not presented in the form of separate legislative proposals; however, in the sectors concerned, the practical significance of these amendments is greater. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. The Fidesz fraction supports the proposal. I would also ask my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-08-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Stummer, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-08-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman and Lords! First of all, I would like to start by saying that when Mr State Secretary mentioned that opposition parties had not participated in this particular BM consultation, I quickly asked what really happened here. What happened was that when opposition parties made this decision not to go to this conciliation, they did so in order not to be able to have such a large number of consultations in the middle of an epidemic situation. I would therefore like to suggest constructively that, if such a consultation is planned in BM, they will try to do so online or propose it. I am also very pleased that Mr Molnár's motion to prohibit driving has been accepted. It's a great pleasure for all of us. When I heard that this news was coming in, and I saw in the bill that it would be included in the package of proposals, I quickly ran an Internet search, and I only found a number of cases, events and press reports from the last two or three months, from which I concluded that driving without a licence had become such a folk tradition here in Hungary; a lot of people have committed this flagrant irregularity, and many times there are accidents. Back in November 2020, the boy who hit an electric pole, a candelaber, drove on Charles Boulevard without a license. In January, a 15-year-old boy in alcoholic influence was caught driving drunk without a driver's license and stopped in a truck. By the way, it was very fortunate that there was no personal injury. In January, Kun-Adachon was an event where a person driving without a driver's license threatened the vigilantes. But if one of the biggest and most serious tragedies is brought here, which has occurred in Hungary in connection with driving without a license in the last few years, then we should also include the hit-and-run on M. Richárd's Dózsa György road, where this person also drove his vehicle without a license when he committed this crime. It is very right, and I am very happy about this amendment myself. The question is to the Secretary of State, but it's really the question of the entire political community why we've only come this far now, why only now. Why did Congressman Molnár have to remember when you've been leading this country by two thirds since 2010? Why so many people had to die, get hurt because it seems that the rules that have been applied to this plot have not been strict enough. I would like to say a few more words about the other elements of the legislative package. With regard to border police tasks and the applicability of Frontex in Hungary, we will support changes that create the conditions for the various legal arrangements for application. The amendment of the Penalty Act, which provides for the possibility for most state-owned companies to produce products and services in the context of compulsory employment of prisoners, is also eligible for our support, Jobbik's programme contains this proposal. The third unit amending the National Security Act is the same package, which amends the obligation to inform the body that employs the person subject to national security control, and it is also an eligible proposal for us. And with that, I would like to stop for a moment, and I would like to say that I have been stressing this for a long time, and I have been banging closed doors for a long time, but I see that the system of national security controls in general also needs to be renewed and reformed. The departments which carry out these national security checks should very often carry out their day-to-day operations or do their day-to-day work with administrative and operational burdens that do not always seem justified and not in all respects. In particular, I am thinking about the burden of the Constitutional Protection Office, and we are also seeing problems in the same subject, which have recently come to light in relation to one or another Hungarian diplomat, that despite these national security checks, it seems that many times these are certain security risks which may prove particularly dangerous to the Hungarian state, quite simply this system, this system is not sufficiently filtered by the current system. It's a good thing it's here, but it's just a tiny slice of this huge connection. It removes the burden from the determining authority, but I do not think that this work and this reform should end here. The amendment to the law on the rules of the protection of persons and property and of the private detective activity, according to which the annual determination of minimum hourly rates is abolished, is supported, as we also support the amendment of the law on entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2021-04-08-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is designed to implement EU legislation and includes amendments to strengthen the safety of Hungarian people. Both the Secretary of State and my fellow Member have presented the bill in detail. I would also like to point out that the bill itself contains 20 amendments to the law, and obviously also the implementation of the Frontex regulation in particular. As Mr Secretary of State has divided this into three groups, one of the most important elements of this is that the police and the National Directorate-General for Foreign Police conclude a cooperation agreement to ensure the smooth implementation of the Frontex Regulation. [[10.50]] The legal basis for the transfer of data to Frontex and the regulatory issue of Frontex should be further highlighted. I also consider it important to point out that, among other things, the law on facial image analysis and facial image analysis systems is being amended. The aim is to increase the results of facial analysis by forming part of the facial image and facial profile records. This will help to promote a higher level of professional support for activities in law enforcement, crime prevention, detection, counter-intelligence and migration processes. It is indeed an important proposal from our fellow Member, Mr Zsolt Molnár, and I would also like to highlight the settlement of the situation of driving without authorisation under the ban. Because of the danger to the outlying society, the bill defines as a criminal offence the case where unauthorized driving is prohibited from driving in infringement proceedings or in criminal proceedings. Under prohibition, the perpetrator commits a misdemeanor, while in the event of criminal prosecution, a felony is committed. In order to ensure consistency with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, the residence card and the permanent residence card to be issued to the family of a third-country national of the EEA State will be a biometric document in the same format as the residence permit in the future. It's important. In this connection, it is also necessary to rename the document, the new name of which will be a long-term residence card. The adoption of the bill therefore serves to strengthen the safety of the Hungarian people, in addition to complying with EU rules, while increasing the speed and efficiency of individual administrations, so KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-08-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Secretary of State, the expose is usually... [[He's taking a moment's break.]] Not usually, the expozes in Parliament are primarily for the rapporteur to describe in detail what is in a bill. The only reason I'm talking about this is because your expo is a little lakonic, I think, compared to the fact that we're negotiating a salad law of twenty laws today. This is not personal, don't take this the wrong way, but I'm only going to answer questions that we believe need to be explained or commented in a positive or negative sense, and I think the government should be here in Parliament to explain such a very comprehensive and very large bill in a bit more detail. One of the longest parts of the first and most important point, in terms of scope, is the Frontex regulation in Hungary, which is nothing more than a confession by my fellow Members. Although it wasn't the Ministry of the Interior that over the past few years has spoken out of context or lied specifically about how the European Union stands on this issue and what efforts it makes to protect the external borders, this government does have specialised bodies that are pouring out these... What do they say these days? Misinformation? Fake news, I'm sorry. They're making these false news out of you, yeah. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Fake news!]] Fake news, yeah, fake news. So, this rule is exactly that the European Union, although in a slightly slower way, obviously organised with so many Member States and with so many hundreds of millions of people in common, is going a little slower, but in the direction of protecting the external borders of the European Union with live power and technology. This proposal is about protecting the EU's external borders through the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, specifically with border guards and otherwise increased technical means. This proposal is specifically about how this will work in Hungary, who should authorise it, how these forces should be requested. This shows precisely that the political message that the Union is on the side of immigration is a point, and that it does not want to defend its borders is simply not true. Otherwise, the proposal itself is absolutely eligible, because the Hungarian Government, at least within the Ministry of the Interior, recognises how important it is that the Union will provide joint assistance to protect the Hungarian border. It is probably important because if someone is, you know very well that it is simply unsustainable, in addition to the shortage of staff today, both in the field of defence and law enforcement, to keep the front down on the southern border, or to try to keep it under constant command. I can't. Nor can it be because these people are missing from anywhere else, because, by the way, in the border hunting squadrons, there were 3,000 new policemen involved, but, thanks to disarmament and everything else, they are unable to secure a permanent number of people at the border, they are constantly leading people down the line, and this is a growing problem in the military force, especially now that because of the outbreak of the virus, there are numerous other extraordinary tasks to be carried out and carried out by both agencies, the armed and the police authorities. Therefore, it is a good thing and can be a very important help if, according to the concept, police officers and border guards from countries that are not primarily affected by external border protection, for example, they can help in here at the Hungarian border. Of course, the other part of this proposal is to place greater emphasis on return operations and the arrangement of this procedure in Hungary, which is one of the most important instruments in terms of irregular or illegal immigration, since with those who do not have the right to enter the European Union, there is obviously a need to start something, and most importantly to be able to return them to their own country of origin. Hungary alone has no means to do so. You know that, too. The part of the proposal that abolishes the obligation to set the minimum cost for property protection services on an annual basis is unacceptable. We don't even understand exactly why this is necessary. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State why this is happening. 'Cause the consequences are pretty much common sense. Its consequences can be that, even for years, this mandatory fee will be frozen, quietly up to three to five, eight, or even a few years, to see what the government has been doing with the statutory salary base or the minimum pension for the past 12 years, or even for a decade, it is possible to forget the arrangement of the fees in this sector. If that is not the intention, then be kind enough to make an argument as to why the Minister does not have ten minutes a year to do this work, obviously with the aim of setting these hourly rates annually, taking into account the minimum wage, the average wage and the processes in the sector. This whole institution was created as far as I remember it, and this is what we had in common, because there are simply slavery conditions in this sector, Mr Secretary of State. The government has also tried to take a few steps against this, for example, in recent years. Why are they practically killing this institution with this move now? If you can answer that, I would be delighted, because we are talking here about 70 to 100 thousand people, the lives and fates of many families, including a lot of colleagues from Home Affairs and Police. The extension of a maximum period of 30 days currently granted for the temporary reorganization of professional staff by 30 days is unacceptable to us, especially if we do not see the reason for this. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State to be kind enough to say why this is necessary. This 30-day transfer isn't a piece of cake, it certainly isn't in people's lives, I mean, for those who are being reassigned, but the reason for this is to be extended by another 30 days. If the reason for what we suspect and think, what I have just said, is that there is still an amazing shortage of personnel in the area of law enforcement and, obviously, there is an amazing extra burden due to the outbreak of the virus, then I would like to say to you that this is even less eligible at the statutory level. This can't go on, Mr. Secretary. [[11.00]] It is not possible to constantly modify the law of service in the field of defence and law enforcement, that we are putting more burden, more burden, more burden on people, more rights, more opportunities and more benefits away from them, and then somehow we will pull it out, I guess, until the elections, or I don't know how long. There should be rules in construction that prevent, for example, the wave of decommissioning, the departure of the track. They also ruffled the moods as public news, and we have actually received such a request that a good part of the police would want to get rid of us right now because of working conditions and unsustainable conditions. Obviously, because of the emergency announcement, they cannot do so, and many people are wondering how this can be resolved, and as it has been published in the news, they have applied to various parties because it is excluded from the law, law enforcement service. Which is not good, and, of course, we have said nothing but that no political party can participate in lawlessness in any way, even if we understand their problems. But let's see the phenomenon, Mr. Secretary. I'm sure it's not the answer to that, that I can extend their transfer by another 30 days. The solution would be to have a normal wage arrangement, to have normal working conditions, to have a predictable career, and, for example, it would be a huge thing for the stock, and I am sure that these people would bring more or at least a better mood on their backs if they finally got that pension system back. Not what it was, but some kind of service pension system would finally be restored to those in active employment, not to mention their former heads of staff, executives and colleagues. The placing of salary tables determining the benefits of professional staff as an annex to the law is a matter of guarantee. Once again, about hundreds of thousands of employees, even a little more, as they take an oath and carry out their service in jeopardy of their lives and their physical integrity, we are talking about people, it is a minimum guarantee that their wage bill should be an annex to the law, and that no minister or even any other leader should be comfortable with this amendment, let us say, by a ministerial decree issued at 11:00 a.m. a good night. That is why we cannot support the fact that a legal provision defining a candidate's scholarship should be removed from the law and placed in the power of a ministerial decree. I do not think that the pro-government representatives can support this with a good feeling. If there is a need for a raise, I hope that this is a solution, not because they want to reduce scholarships, bring it to Parliament, I think that the Hungarian Parliament will make this rule at any time with a 100% decision. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that there are a number of forward-looking measures, a proposal in this bill, also beneficial for the staff, the definition of specific provisions for a certain part of them, such as the police administrative service of the prison chaplains, or even the Riasz. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, There may be an important paradigm shift in the enforcement of sentences that the obligation to supply the prison organisation will cover not only the budgetary bodies but also the companies under state majority influence in the future. Let us say, a good question is that this will stand the test of the legal environment of the Union, and another great question will be what the poet was thinking when he put this proposal on the table, so in what volume, in what volume, in which state companies he intends to participate, and he will be able to carry it out properly. And another very important question is that we hope that they will not look for a solution that we have seen, for example, with regard to the production of uniforms, that the new uniforms come out of the hands of prisons on paper, we know practically precisely because they have a clue, it is not to be overlooked that they are doing the most important aspects of dress composition in external companies, because bv is unable to do so, and then at the end of it, bv is accounted for as an internal product, otherwise it is not small or just that not many people are given little money, order and business. It's certainly not in the interest of execution. Let us hope that this is not the case in this case. The provision that precludes the extension of residence permits in the event of a declaration of termination of employment for third-country nationals seems rather strict. If the Hungarian market sees this as the right thing to do, you know that it may not work in this case, but we do not wish to take a stand on this. It is a particularly remarkable provision, which repeals the provision that, in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration, the public procurement law has not yet had to be applied to investments and purchases for asylum tasks. Allow me to read the explanation here, because I think it's very charming. According to the bill, I quote:.:. The crisis caused by mass immigration has been in place in Hungary since 15 September 2015. The extreme urgency of unforeseen events no longer exists and the regulation should not be maintained. They are absolutely right about this, of course, there is only one question at this time, but only what justify the existence of the extraordinary situation itself if you think it is no longer justified. Finally, the most important question. Our fellow Member, Zsolt Molnár, has submitted his own proposal to make the action against driving without authorisation more effective. Fidesz voted against that. We are now pleased that in this bill, in a salad law, it returns, if not entirely the same proposal, but it is almost identical in its content. The fact is that in this case, public opinion has not come up by accident, and we believe that this regulation is essential and must be supported in any way so that it can be adopted. [[To the President:]] Give me a minute. I had 15 minutes, didn't I? Give me a minute, Mr. President. Overall, I can say and will add, Mr Secretary of State, that there are many good points in this bill. There are three things that we would very much like to vote for. We will present proposals for amendments. If the Ministry of Interior is willing to remove a few points that negatively affect the stock and the private security sector, then we may as well vote in favour of this law. I'll pick it up later. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2021-04-08-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Legislature, Dear Secretary of State, The government does not deny itself, because a wild novel Wednesday night, just a few minutes before midnight, this salad law before us, which indeed amends twenty, exceptionally law enforcement laws. We see that a large part of the bill comes from fulfilling EU obligations, and it has been said here that, in particular, with regard to external border control, in the areas of return, the fight against cross-border crime, residence permits and asylum. However, the question is that to perform the tasks undertaken in an appropriate professional capacity, you will be at all qualified as a police officer. For it is well-known to everyone, it doesn't take much imagination, everyone can experience it almost every day, you can read these news that the atmosphere within the police has been getting tense for years. Overcrowded, thousands of people preparing to leave the course, where more and more people in the flock, for example, resent that they weren't equipped to guard a fence, often in inhumane conditions. But the current pandemic situation has also been said, and the lack of professional recognition is a growing problem, as has the promised wage increase, but it has been cancelled for years. At the time of the transition to the status of law enforcement staff, you promised that the average gross salary increase of HUF 47,000 with the change of status would be followed by an additional 5-5 per cent per year between 2020 and 2022. However, we can now read that more professionals are not at all, or have received significantly less than 5 percent increases, despite the fact that their statutory benchmarking was excellent and outstanding. [[11.10]] In particular, it is important for workers who have been certified from the public servant to be employed that many, together with the status of civil servant, have also fallen from the Jubilee Prize for years in the public sector. We see that the union also resents, among other things, the fact that there has been virtually no reconciliation of interests in law enforcement. Formerly the Trade Union of Home Affairs, Police and Civil Service Workers, and a few days ago, the Independent Police Union turned to the national commissioner János Balogh and Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, who did not even respond to their request. This, i.e. the restoration of the reconciliation of interests is constantly being promoted by interest representatives, so far, we can see that it is in vain. According to the advocacy, the biggest problem is that it has not even been mentioned this year, there could be any wage increase at all for members of the professional staff. Trade unions would also like to achieve an increase in the salary base and the night allowance, as well as an increase in the basic wage of the 10 percent supplement last year; for the time being, it seems that they have found deaf ears. The amendments concerning the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies include, of course, a number of eligible elements, but I regret to say that the solution to the problems identified by trade unions, which have the greatest impact on the staff and working conditions of professional staff, is not addressed at all in this proposal. The other issue I would like to talk about is that the bill also fulfils the EU's obligation under the regulation by introducing a cybersecurity certificate and strengthening the security of EU citizens' identity cards and residence documents issued to EU citizens and their family members who exercise the right of free movement, which we consider acceptable in this form, but although the intention to harmonise legislation relating to the fulfilment of the EU's obligation can be supported, the bill does not regulate the tasks and procedures of the certification authority and the level of the fine it can impose. They will all want to settle them in a government decree, although the basic provisions should be drafted at a legal level. There has been a lot of talk, and I am very excited about the proposal on traffic crimes. Despite the fact that we know very well, it has also been said before me that Zsolt Molnár's original proposal has simply been swept off the table, yet the legislator's intention to regulate the non-licensed driving of the Violent Law and the Criminal Code on prevention should be assessed, which is also an eligible element of the proposal. We can see that all of us who travel have experienced: in recent years, the traffic morale, if possible, has deteriorated even further than those before it, and we call things by their name: some of the Fidesz-neighbors are slowly playing sports to prove that they are not subject to these laws. And unfortunately, this situation is now operational, and it stands up to it. It seems that some people may be able to do anything now, even on the roads, thanks to the implicit support of the government. In spite of their driving licence, they can still ride behind the wheel, causing serious, even fatal road accidents. We all know the story I'm talking about. That the threat of imprisonment will then become a deterrent, it will depend greatly on the application of court law. Both I and the entire DK community believe that other serious traffic offences, such as the increasing increase in penalty braking recently, extreme speed overruns, regular driving through red lights should also be one of the more severely sanctioned behaviours due to their danger to society. I totally agree with that. However, I do not propose to support an amendment to the Violation Act which provides the right-holder with the possibility to decide on the imposition of detention of offences on the basis of subjective discretion and taking into account it. Because of these subjective aspects, it cannot be excluded that there is an abuse of fundamental rights; objective criteria should be laid down in the proposal for the imposition or use of such a serious sanction. We strongly oppose amendments to the Asylum Act, which would allow or would allow the asylum authority, if necessary, to propose an extension of asylum detention for another two months compared to the six-month maximum so far. The amendment does not, in my view, include the necessary guarantees for asylum detention, in particular that the possibility of a two-stage judicial review is also removed from this proposal before us. After lodging the asylum application, the Hungarian authorities shall record and send the applicant's fingerprints for persons over the age of 14 years. This age limit is delivered by the bill for six years, which is absolutely shocking. The crisis caused by mass migration seems to have been Fidesz's miracle weapon, and it seems to be staying. If this is about diverting attention from real problems, helpless, bad governance, then nothing is expensive for Fidesz, and, well, against the inhumane refugee policy of the Orbán government, the Democratic Coalition has repeatedly raised and raised our voice. We will also protest against the current restrictions, and we will protest now. On the basis of what has been said so far, yes, there are positive and forward-looking elements of the bill, especially in the area of harmonisation, but there are also a number of amendments to the salad law before us that are incompatible with our political views, and we will therefore not support the bill in this form legally. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-44	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, Group leader, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In view of the fact that my fellow opposition Members appreciated the bill in great detail, and if we look at today's agenda, it is clear that we will probably be having debates here until late at night, I am trying not to repeat anything that has been said, precisely because I agree with a significant part of what the opposition colleagues have said; not everything, but a significant part of it is. I would like to start by saying this, too, Mr Stummer, that we do, and we recognise this because we cannot express enough criticism about the government, the government's legislation, but indeed the Ministry of Interior always strives to engage with the factions in order to offer the opposition factions the opportunity to negotiate. And indeed, in this case too, we were invited, and we ourselves did not attend the conciliation, did we not, such a personal consultation was proposed, because we thought that our colleagues and everyone's health should now be moved forward, to health protection. We therefore believe that, indeed, as my better fellow Member has said, we should provide the opportunity in an online form. I am quite certain that the Ministry of Interior can handle this, but we acknowledge that there was an opportunity to negotiate before such a submission before midnight. On the other hand, I think the Ministry of the Interior can reflect on the fact that constructive proposals have also been made in a significant part by my fellow Members. Mr Bellozó has also said that, in particular, they intend to submit amendments to a really very important issue that will make it possible for them to benefit from the proposal. So we can say that, here, at the plenary session, the conciliation is still taking place, and I think it is only right that the Ministry of the Interior should consider these proposals in substance. Overall, strengthening public security is the declaration of this salad law, and we can say that 11 years after your second country, this government has done very badly, and despite the fact that they have started their work with very loud promises, it is clear that there has not been any real progress in this area. Obviously, when we are talking about such a bill, we are talking about such a salad law, we must always say that it is very simple, or it is easier to say that it is easier to amend the laws than to establish solutions in the sense that the law enforcement staff is complete, there should not be such a huge shortage of workers, and indeed there should not be the tensions that we have now, the tensions that are otherwise justified by the stock. [[11.20]] I think it is well-known that all politicians, all Members of Parliament, regularly receive such requests and signals that there are different levels, but rather significant levels of uproar, frustration and despair, otherwise we can say that in the entire area of law enforcement, and this is fundamentally the responsibility of the government, that it has not been able to deal with this, and indeed increases the burden, and sometimes only takes a positive step in order to appreciate the stock. But I think that we do not need to talk about this problem in a situation like this, but we still need to say that we are very grateful and that we would like to thank all law enforcement workers. In particular, this should be said as often as possible when the whole country is experiencing a very difficult situation, and law enforcement workers face very tough challenges. But obviously I also have to say that thanks are full of attic, so it's basically respect, professional respect and financial appreciation that the law enforcement workers rightly expect, and if this problem is finally addressed by the government, then it will be possible to face the shortage of workers, to face the enormous challenge in the system that represents the entire law enforcement sector. Very, very briefly, about certain details of the law. My fellow Members have also said a great deal about Frontex. Indeed, years ago, when we were faced with the migration crisis in the Committee of the Regions of the European Union, which has reached Europe, this strong wave, Frontex, is indeed an important initiative only in its extremely weak staff. In any event, the intention can be supported. And it is indeed in this way that this can be opposed to the government propaganda that the government has said about Brussels' attitude, and I think it is also important to stress that we ourselves are in a position to really stop illegal migration, to protect the EU's external borders; and we also say very firmly on all issues relating to migration that we have always been of the opinion that immigration policy should be kept in national and national competence, that we should be able to act together at European level in order to face this problem. If you have mentioned specific figures here, too, the current daily numbers of illegal migration, we can say that this is indeed not a current problem. I think that in the coming decades this will be a constantly worsening problem, as we can see that, overall, the reasons behind the migratory pressure, the causes of migration, unfortunately, the whole of Europe is not yet in place and is not involved. I would add that the Fidesz government is also preventing the European Union from taking steps to reduce the causes of migration. Thus, I am thinking, first of all, about climate change and environmental destruction, but I would like to point out that there are a lot of war conflicts, geopolitical games that are behind the root causes of migration, against which the government would not only be critical, but even where appropriate, political actors, dictators who are actively involved in this. And it publicly promotes the credibility of the government's policy to be friends with such dictators who, by the way, say, threaten the European Union; or, for example, Erdoğan, who says that he calls on the Turkish minority in the European Union not to be integrated, but to see them as some kind of political weapon and otherwise blackmail Europe. So, obviously, in such a situation, it must always be stressed that the Fidesz government's policy and rhetoric are completely false in the issue of migration; at the same time, of course, steps to strengthen and serve common border protection must be fully supported and supported, obviously if the necessary amendments are to be made here on the salad law. I also have a specific question for the Secretary of State, which I also base on a request. You can see that border surveillance is a huge challenge. I do not want to bring this here, we have said it many times, and Jobbik has always stressed that setting up an independent border guard would really be the solution to the problem of border surveillance, but there is a very, very serious shortage of labour in this respect, and it is an enormous effort to protect the border. However, a system of so-called voluntary territorial reserveers was set up here not long ago. I've been getting signals from several parts of the country that it's like some kind of propaganda grab, so a lot of people are in this system. They also received basic training and did not give them the opportunity to act. They will not be given the opportunity to participate, where appropriate, in the protection of the border. So, where appropriate, they already have the right skills, but they simply get out of this system twice after six months, and it's like the government is wasting this opportunity. If you've created it, then what's behind this? Why can't you see why there's a lot of signals coming from places that they don't use these people, that they won't be allowed to catch the end of the job? If they've been trained, it seems incomprehensible. At the same time, and what is in the proposal, the motion on Frontex can be fully supported. Similarly, colleagues here have already spoken about legislative amendments resulting from various other EU regulations, information systems, identity cards and others, we agree with them, because I think that positive changes, such as the registration of facial image analysis, are positive. I don't want to spawn the word about it. Yes, there is a question of how this could have happened, how this could have been done, and how in 2021 the government would be able to take a meaningful step in this regard. I wouldn't say that if an opposition Member tabled a proposal, it would be voted off. Is it worth seeing that they didn't speak to him at, say, a committee meeting, or didn't agree at that time? I think that all opposition representatives, knowing your attitude, are better off voting it off, but at least then submit it and do it by their own names. It is also a pleasure to have the opposition proposals taken over in this way, but let us note that this is not a small, strong hypocritical attitude, but let us be glad that this is finally achieved, and I think it has been a rhetorical question for my fellow opposition Members, why it has been so much to wait for, but I can certainly say that this amendment is welcome, and thank Mr Zsolt Molnár for having done this and submitted it, and this will eventually be adopted. I really don't want to waste time, and I'd just like to move a little bit away from the subject of the law, but still, since it's a salad law, let me ask Mr. Secretary of State a question about a little further away. I have said many times that, in some cases, certain system problems could be solved by law amendment and tightening up. A long time ago, they made a promise to eliminate illegal landfills and punish the perpetrators. Compared to this, I recently received a shocking reply from the police that they appeared in December 2019 with a huge truck in an area between Komló and Manfa, and they dumped 40 tons of plastic, rubber and so on and so forth. They got stuck in the mud, caught in the act, caught the truck driver, found out where the waste came from in Italy. It was dumped in a municipal area without the municipality's consent. One man made an agreement with this carrier on the municipal territory with nothing to do with the territory, and the rest. The report was immediately filed in violation of the waste management order, and the police were ping-ponging with this material, and finally, I don't know which department of the Alert Police has reached the point that there was no crime on the basis of the information available. How the hell did this happen? By the way, the trash is still there today. So after almost a year and a half, the problem was not solved. An outstanding case, this country has been rumored, everyone is shocked, everyone has it, every person is known, its origin, everything, and the police can't determine the crime? ! Can you explain this, Mr. Secretary, even if I'm a little off the subject, so briefly, but I think that this is rightfully annoying to everyone, that the authorities cannot find a solution to one of the most important and annoying problems, and in a year and a half, when they have all the information, the names of the people, the perpetrators, everything and there is no crime? This is quite shocking, and I think that this is fundamentally undermining trust in public authorities in society, so we have to face these problems, since we are talking about how public security and the amendment of the law can achieve improvements and substantial shifts that can increase the satisfaction of society. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member, Mr János Bencsik, withdrew his intention to speak. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. We now have speeches in a normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group. Here you go. [[11.30]]
u2021-04-08-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As I promised, I would like to make a special point on one of the points in the proposal which was a separate motion by my fellow Member, Mr Zsolt Molnár, MSZP, and has been included in this proposal. Let me put the circumstances of the submission in order, because in fact Fidesz did not vote down, but what happened was that this proposal was not on the agenda. To add, in November, the Member first submitted this proposal, a relatively long time, a half-year, and then, with his original proposal withdrawn, he submitted a new one weeks ago, which is more professionally suited to the Criminal Code in the Btk. Technically, as I understand it, this is what we are now seeing in this proposal with a slight difference. The criticism that there has been no meaningful response for six months, at least on the part of the governing parties, is a fact. And the fact that the Ministry of Interior at least included it in this proposal is welcome in today's political circumstances. But let's see what we're talking about. This is also about the sanctioning of driving without a driver's license, the amendment of the Code of Penalty and the Code of Penalty; it is also about the most deplorable and truly unscrupulous form of driving, when a person re-enters the car and commits a traffic accident that ends with the personal injury of others or with the death of God. Just as my good fellow Member has collected some things, there is this M. Richárd stunt, which has really upset the whole country, and not by accident, because here we are seeing a series of repeated acts, a deadly hit-and-run, after which a man is spectacularly cut in the face of the whole country, able to get into a car in this country even if this story has already happened, and how should I put it? make the entire Hungarian law enforcement and justice system ridiculous, but especially the Hungarian government and the laws. That's why Zsolt Molnár thought, "Yeah, well, if this is the way to have fun, you can show it to the face of the whole country and have fun with the death of others, then you should respond to the Hungarian Parliament and say, "Whoever only thinks about it, but dares to do it most of all, goes straight to prison, period." And you don't have to think about whether you'll have a production or a pre-trial arrest, because from now on, you'll be, most likely, if this proposal is accepted by Parliament. It was not by accident that Zsolt Molnár submitted this question in November last November, because this question had already shuddered the moods, and it has been six months since then. But the other half, which I would like to draw your attention to, is that this M. Richard thing has really been through the press, the tabloid press, Facebook, everything, I think people have been touched very strongly. But the reality that my fellow Member has gathered here is that this is not an outstanding case. It is not a matter of just one person, I say once again, that he showed that he can do anything in this country, and has no consequence, because it is outrageous alone, but that if a little search is made, then if not in national newspapers, but in county newspapers we find similar cases on a weekly level where people lose their lives, die on a weekly, two-week level, because people who are completely irresponsible, completely predictable, and intentionally banned from driving a vehicle are carrying out an act that, unfortunately, is statistically evident at all times a tragedy and an accident, and many times a death. Therefore, I think it is very important that this proposal be adopted by Parliament as soon as possible, and, yes, it would have been more elegant, it would have been more normal in a normal country, but let us not dream if even an opposition Member's own motion had been put on the table alone. Why? and I will conclude with this, for the same reason that I have concluded my main speech, Mr Secretary, that putting this proposal into a salad law amending twenty laws is politically incorrect. If someone wants to vote, we may be able to imagine that someone who has submitted his faction wants to vote, but they put it in a law where I have listed at least three or four points that we do not want to vote for, because we think that are the wrong rules, but certainly not those that deserve our vote. We also have an important issue concerning the working conditions of law enforcement workers, their otherwise difficult, embarrassing proposal or even a negative proposal for those working in the private security sector. I therefore ask you once again, and I ask the Ministry of Interior, and then also the Members of the Fidesz, KDNP, on the Defence and Police Committee, to make the whole law acceptable. Make sure that these three or four points are not now sewn up in this bill, that they do not now require additional work for the police or transfer; they do not now take away the annual review obligation for minimum hours for people working in the private security sector. And if these amendments were accepted, removed from the law, then I think that a relatively broad compromise could be reached on this whole bill. That's what we're asking for. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-04-08-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2021-04-08-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At the very beginning, I would like to mention that between 2002 and 10 I was a member of the Hungarian Parliament, the Police Committee, and later I also worked in the Defence and Police Committee, and I also participated in the plenary sessions, and I do not remember a single opposition motion that we had tabled that would have been accepted by the then MSZP-SZDSZ majority. Good afternoon, fellow Members of the opposition. I say this because we did not see it as a gesture, we considered it a meaningful step to examine the proposal of the Socialist Member, Zsolt Molnár. The Ministry of Interior has also prepared a dossier, and this regulation has been included in this bill, my fellow Members, taking into account its proposal. So what's important now? Is it important to take action against this phenomenon, against these violations? I think that's it. Or whose glory you want to see, my fellow Members of the opposition? Let me draw your attention to that at the very beginning, and then I will also mention the comments per person, that if we go back to the situation in 2010 and compare it to the state of the day, if I remember the number correctly, I will say on a scale only: in 2010 there were 450 thousand known crimes, which decreased by the end of 2020 to below 150,000, to a large one-third. Of course, the aim would be not to commit a crime in Hungary, but to say what may be said by Mr Keresztes, how badly this government has done in the field of public security, which is unjust, untrue, and does not correspond to reality. After all, we have been working from the beginning to put order in the country to create security. Not we say, but international organisations, who specialize in this, have established that Hungary is one of the safest countries in the European Union and is one of the safest countries in the world. And this has been achieved not only by the successful implementation of classical public security and internal security tasks by the police, but also by the action against illegal migration in the summer of 2015 and by the police personnel a year ago, and by the fight against the epidemic in March 2020. [[11.40]] So I would also like to thank the police staff and the personnel of the military, here at the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament, for working hard to ensure order in this country. Therefore, a hat should be lifted, and I think that the work of staff should be consolidated and not a fevered one, but recognised and evaluated. I believe that these figures prove that they are in the area of Homeland Security, because they have decreased significantly, the number of crimes that have become known has decreased by a third, and illegal migration has been contained. I would like to say to Mr Belló, by the way, I regret that he was not at the plenary session when I said the expo, because he was criticising him with his first sentence, of course, his right, of course, all Members say what they want, there is democracy in Hungary between 1 January and 7 April 2021. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] I will tell Mr President again, that is to say 24,956 people until midnight yesterday, which is 257 people on average on a daily basis, who wanted to enter the territory of Hungary and the European Union illegally. This figure was 8978 a year ago, i.e. between 1 January 2020 and 7 April 2020, with a daily average of 92 people. So the number of people who wish to enter Hungary illegally has increased nearly threefold. This is why it is also important to maintain the rules of the crisis caused by mass immigration, so that the authorities, the police and the defence can enforce them. And let me point out that when the last time the government informed the Defence and Police Committee about this and fulfilled its statutory obligation, it accepted this report without debate, with a single comment, submitted by Interior Minister Sándor Pintér to the Defence and Police Committee. So I think that it is fair to say this, now that you might question why it is important to maintain the rules of the crisis caused by mass immigration. This is important for the safety of the Hungarian people, for the security of Hungary and for the security of the Union. I think these numbers speak for themselves. I only said that because Mr Bellozó was not present at the beginning of the debate. Now allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to my fellow Members on behalf of the political groups. Mrs Mónika Bartos, who spoke to her on behalf of Fidesz, and expressly expressed her support for the proposal, thank you very much, they also said that they supported her before the negotiations were scheduled. Thank you very much, and I would ask you to support this proposal in Parliament's vote as well. Congressman Stummer, I don't know, he's here. I would therefore also like to answer his questions as to why we did not present this bill earlier, or why this tightening has not taken place earlier. I would like to say that immediately after the agreement of the Government in 2010, the Government started to establish strict legislation in order to restore order and public security in Hungary, and Jobbik did not vote for these proposals, by the way. For the sake of the truth only, you can look at this proposal, honourable Members. I think it is important that we adopt these rules, because I think it is very important for us to take strict action either against driving without a driver's license or against other infringements mentioned. I think that this action must be independent of parties, because it serves the life and safety of all law-abiding citizens. As far as the rules of national security control are concerned, this has also been criticised or criticised by the Member. I would like to say that the government is constantly monitoring and adapting these amendments to life. Let me draw attention to the fact that at the end of 2016 there was a major amendment to the rules of national security control, which came into force from 1 January 2017, and since then the number of persons subject to this control is constantly expanding almost every year. In general, these opposition representatives do not vote, and these votes can be seen. At the same time, we trust that these are rules that meet the objective and that they can ensure the control of persons subject to national security control. But indeed, this must always, always be monitored and adapted to life, so that the purpose for which Parliament has created this task is fulfilled. I'll tell you one more time, we're always following this. With regard to the burden of the Constitutional Protection Office, I believe that the Constitutional Protection Office is regularly reporting on the work done at the meetings of the National Security Committee, on several occasions a year. I believe that these accounts prove that the personal and material conditions are in place to carry out the functions of the Constitutional Protection Office, and I ask Mr Stummer that, if he has any suggestions for this to happen even more effectively, I would ask him to make these proposals. My fellow Member, Mr Hajnalka Juhász KDNP, thank you very much for your support. It is important that this proposal, which is indeed fulfilling an obligation to harmonise EU legislation on the one hand and serving the safety of the Hungarian people on the other, is accepted by the greater majority, and I ask the Member to support it by the faction, the representatives of KDNP. I would also like to respond to what Mr Tamás Harangozó said, whom I welcome, and I would like to address the proposals he has made, and I would like to mention this discussion that it is indeed a practice in the Ministry of the Interior to consult the factions not only in front of the fundamental laws, but also in normal, half laws. We also understand that they have not come because of the epidemic, we have taken the suggestion that we will keep this online for the future, thank you for the proposal, and we have also thought of it, but we have indicated that I am only telling you for the sake of the truth that we would also have liked to have taken the opinions in writing. But once again, it is in the common interest that we can adopt the best possible laws, and we can therefore say, as regards the future, that we will take into account this proposal that they have made in connection with the conciliation. But anyway, I'll tell you again, we sent the proposal electronically before, so you might have known it, I guess you've looked at it. As regards the withdrawal of Frontex, to which you referred, Member, we believe that it was not a professional, but a political decision. Nevertheless, we have also submitted this proposal because, on the one hand, Hungary regularly transposes, integrates, and we are confident that these rules will also contribute to the fulfilment of EU obligations and, on the other hand, to the security of Hungary. With regard to the issue of fees, he asked a number of questions in this regard, and I would like to say that an implementing regulation will be drawn up, which includes automation in terms of the increase, by allowing the Chamber of Assets to propose a higher amount in this respect. As regards police careers and the recognition of police officers, it is really important that we all know the truth. Mr Bellozó was still here in Parliament at the time, and he knows that he confirms that the Lifeline Act entered into force from 1 July 2015, which included an average salary increase of 50 per cent until 2019. That's done. [[11.50]] In addition, as of 1 January 2010, professional staff received a 10 per cent salary increase, an additional allowance of 200 thousand HUF gross cafeteria allowances, and let me also point out that the professional staff of 56 600 people received a one-time gross HUF HUF 500 000 allowance in the de-cember of 2019. I would also like to say that the government also provides resources for benchmarking, and this year, too, 12 billion forints is available to the professional staff. And I would also like to thank you for the successful work and service of professional staff, and really do everything to ensure that Hungary, the Hungarian people, is safe with regard to internal security tasks, either in order to protect borders or in terms of carrying out the tasks caused by the virus situation. Thanks to the police and police. As regards the change in the rules on public procurement, honourable Member, this is not related to the change of crisis, but because of the extension of the time limit for procurement. As regards Mr Molnár's proposal and his second comment, I would also like to respond to this. I therefore believe that there has been a special consultation with the Member of the Ministry of Interior, because I say that we also thought it important that this regulation should be brought before Parliament and that it came here without any ulterior motive. Our goal was to get it to Parliament as soon as possible, which is why it was included in this bill. I hope that you will be able to support this proposal. And once again, if I take into account the period 2002-2010, I do not recall the fact that the opposition representative's proposal, by mentioning its name, the name of the opposition representative, the majority of MSZP-SZDSZ or the government, would have taken it into account. I would like to say one more thing about the salary situation of the professional staff. Indeed, it is important that the members of the stock feel that they are valued for their recognition of their work, and I would like to say that we have made housing support part of the life plan, with HUF 2 billion and HUF 815 million added to the government's annual budget. It is also important to highlight the third pillar, as Parliament has also established a system for the provision of health damage to law enforcement from 1 January 2017 with the adoption of this law, and it should also be said that Hst. staff covered by the scope of this Regulation are the only categories of employees in which, five years before retirement age, it is possible to provide regular salaries without service; the only condition of the allowance beyond the age is the performance of 30 years of actual professional service. Honourable Member, I think that, if we look at this regulation in a realistic way, this is a recognition of the course of life that anyone who is in a situation where there is damage to health in his life, that his health is being damaged, will have the opportunity to do so. And I'll tell you one more thing, because I think that we should be aware of this, and I don't want to add to the debate, but I'll tell you that if you had valued the professional staff better between 2002 and 10 years ago, that if you had raised the salary regularly, then in 2010, when we took over the administration, we would have been in a much easier position, and we wouldn't have started from the then fund in 15 but from a much higher fund, and I know that it would have been much simpler and that the professional staff would have been in a much better position. But in any case, we can say that the appreciation of the stock is very important, and I would also like to thank you for the work of the staff, the professional staff, that you are doing in the interests of the Hungarian people, for the safety of the Hungarian people. As far as Mr Zoltán Varga is concerned, I think he might have misunderstood the proposal regarding the salary increase, or perhaps not studied it sufficiently, because the proposal does not concern the salary bill for professional staff, but concerns the scholarship of candidates for officials from the University of Public Service. So that's what this is about. As regards the sanctioning of driving without a licence, we trust that this new regulation has sufficient deterrent powers. I would also ask you to support this proposal. As far as detention of offences is concerned, so far there have been no criteria for detention of offences, and we are complying with the Ombudsman's call, and these rules relating to detention of offences have been included in the bill on his proposal. As far as asylum detention is concerned, I would like to say that we have adapted the duration of asylum detention to European practice, which I would certainly like to answer to your question. He said they wouldn't support him legally. Well, I think that if you support it in the vote, you will contribute to achieving these goals. As regards the comments of Mr Lóránt Keresztes on volunteering, the voluntary territorial reserveists are the competence of the defence portfolio. We will forward this comment and signal this comment or this comment to the Ministry of Defence. As regards migration, the migration situation, I may have responded earlier to Mr Bellozó, to the question of other speakers. The fact is that Hungary can protect the country with the triple protection, i.e. the living protection, the fence and the legal protection, both by providing both material and technical conditions and by providing personnel, this will take a great deal of effort, but I can say that Hungary has the necessary power to carry out the tasks, and we trust that the efforts to expand personnel will continue to be successful. But I would like to reassure you that we still have the power to provide border protection. I think that I have slowly come to the end of the responses to the comments. I ask this House, my fellow Members, to support this very important bill. Anyone who has a proposal for amendments to be tabled by my opposition colleague, I can promise that we will examine the amendments in substance, because we believe that achieving the best possible regulation is in the public interest, and I trust that the adoption of this law will also contribute to Hungary becoming a safer country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-50	Thank you very much for the answers of the Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to give the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. Keep up the good work. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-04-08-51	I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. A general debate on the presentation of the Convention and Appendices of 21 November 1947 on the privileges and immunities of the United Nations' specialised institutions in New York until its closure. The government referral is T/15695. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[12.00]]
u2021-04-08-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is to publish in a uniform law the Convention of 21 November 1947 on the Privileges and immunities of the specialised institutions of the United Nations and all its Appendices, and to recognise the mandatory scope of the appendices which have not been adopted so far. The Convention governs the privileges and immunities of UN specialised institutions and their representatives and delegates in the text of the Convention and includes the entities covered by it in its Appendices. The Convention was published only in Hungarian, without the authentic English text, by Decree-Law No 23 of 1967. However, this preaching act did not include all the appendices for which our country has already committed itself to applying the Convention. The recognition of the uniform structure of the publication and the mandatory scope of the annexes that have not been adopted so far will provide a solution for the applicability of the Convention by the simultaneous settlement of the internal legal status of the appendices which have not been transposed into our legal system for all international organisations included in the Appendices. Hungary is all members of the international organisations included in the Appendices to the Convention, but in the case of the Appendices where Hungary has not yet committed itself and has not made a written notification to the application of the Convention, it is justified to replace this lag. Accordingly, as regards the International Agricultural Development Fund, the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation, the United Nations Tourism Organisation and the World Intellectual Property Organisation, the written notification together with the commitment to implementation can be made by submitting the instruments of ratification issued on the basis of this bill to the Secretary-General of the United Nations as depositary. The authentic English text and official Hungarian translation of the Convention and its Appendices are annexed to the bill. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill, and I would ask that it be adopted during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialised Institutions of the United Nations, concluded in 1947, was proclaimed by a Legislative Decree 20 years later, but this contained only the Convention itself, not the Appendices. The current publication of the Convention and its Appendices in a uniform structure clarifies the legal status of the Appendices, which in practice means that privileges and immunities now extend to all specialised bodies. Most specialised UN institutions have been subject to diplomatic immunity since 1967, 1973 and 1982, and are now joined in a fourth round by the International Agricultural Development Fund, the Industrial Development Organisation, the World Tourism Organisation and the World Intellectual Property Organisation. The contents of the exemptions are standard: the heads of the institutions and their experts are free from, inter alia, arrest, detention and the seizure of their personal luggage and their documents are inviolable. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is committed to the effective functioning of the UN and its specialised institutions and cooperates on a thousand lines with these four organisations. For example, we joined the Roman-based Agricultural Development Fund in 2011 and in 2013 we paid the so-called initial contribution of $100,000. The UN can function successfully if it does not stand under the flag of any political ideology, but is impartial in carrying out its task in the interests of all Member States. Hungary always takes this aspect into account in its involvement in the UN. Fidesz supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-08-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think it can be said that it is extremely important for Hungary to participate in international organisations and to work effectively and constructively in them, and in particular we can talk about this in this regard, I think, in the context of constructive work towards the UN and the European Union. As it stands, we are talking about diplomatic immunity in connection with four specialised UN agencies. It can also be said that there are certain areas, areas of expertise that each country cannot or cannot provide on its own, or at least as effectively as it can provide for an international organisation under its aegis, jointly, together, and this cooperation can bring the particular area to success. This is how more than 190 countries around the world have thought about supplying certain areas by using and entering UN specialised bodies. Those four specialized bodies did not yet have diplomatic immunity to other specialised bodies. Thus, Jobbik's position was that, of course, not only the diplomatic immunity of these specialised bodies, but also the effective and constructive work towards both the European Union and the UN and any other international organisation is extremely important and extremely important for the country, so it must be supported by everyone. On behalf of the EPP Jobbik, we will support it. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2021-04-08-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State and my fellow Member presented the bill in detail. I would add one thing: given that the international asylum organisation ceased to exist after the Convention was established, the bill of announcement was not included, but it is still contained in the authentic English text of the Convention. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a member of our country, took over the tasks of the asylum organisation. In the authentic English language text of the Convention, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation, the World Health Organisation and the International Maritime Organisation have several versions of each appendix, whereas only one text is published in the official Hungarian language, given that the Hungarian version contains the final revised text. At the same time as the Act enters into force, the Legislative Decree on the privileges and immunities of the specialised institutions of the United Nations in New York, of 21 November 1947, is hereby repealed. KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-59	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-60	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Today will be a very long day, so in such a complicated and important bill, I do not intend to make a big comment, and my wise fellow Members have given all the details. I meditated, I just wanted to share it with the House, and that's why I stood up to see what a complicated world it must have been since 1947, and then from 67 that we didn't know what to do with the people of these specialized agencies. Only here did the fellow Members tell stories yesterday, for example, the President of DK made a statement. Let me tell you, I was a soldier before the university, and we were told in the military that if an enemy vehicle approached the object, it would be necessary to cover the vehicle with a blanket so that it couldn't pass until the proper organs arrived. If there had been such a law then, how much more opportunities, we would have had room for manoeuvre! [[Defiance.]] So we have been looking forward to this law, and for my part, we will certainly support it. Thank you very much. [[12.10]]
u2021-04-08-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am now asking my fellow Members that someone still wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is therefore closed and closed. I am now asking Mr Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here's to you, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-08-62	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to thank my fellow Members very briefly for their support. We are truly committed not only to the United Nations but also to supporting and supporting participation in other multilateral organisations and their work, and as a Member committed to defence, let me add that Hungary is also doing outstanding work in NATO's organisation. Thank you very much for the addition of Mrs Congresswoman. Indeed, Congressman Gyula Molnár was well aware that long-term years had passed from 47 to 67, on the one hand, and then from 67 until now. I understand the omissions of the 1967-1990s in the circumstances at that time, but I think that we can finally put an end to this matter by adopting this law, and we can make up for this failure together. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2021-04-08-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the legislative amendments needed to simplify certain administrative procedures until closure. The government referral is T/15699. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This bill contributes to improving the efficiency of public services and to the functioning of the customer-centred service state. For the functioning of an efficient state, it is of the utmost importance that the records kept by the State are credible and accurate. During the NAVY project, the management licence and vehicle registration system will undergo full IT renewal. A direct IT data link will be established between the IT systems of those registers and other public registers in order to improve the public credibility and accuracy of the recorded data and to reduce the administrative burden on citizens. In the framework of the NAVY project, the personal data and address register will be renewed. As digitalisation progresses, it is necessary that the basic documents on which the registers are based are kept in electronic form by the Central Documentary. Therefore, in addition to the basic documents already stored on paper and computer media, the Central Documentary already keeps such documents in electronic form. In addition, in the light of the principle of data saving, the records of documents relating to identity cards, private passports and card format licences only record the data contained in the issued document as well as the specific particulars of the ké-relem necessary for the issue of the document. From 1 February 2021 the driving licence shall be issued automatically. In order to enable the customer to verify that the conditions for the automatic issue of the driving licence are met, the Registry shall provide an independent service for this purpose. The Ministry of Interior has consulted the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on a number of occasions with the name of nationality of each on the issue of inclusion in documents. The bill provides for the possibility of asking for his nationality name on a private passport issued by the Hungarian national authorities. As stated in the consultations, the nationality name may be entered on the secondary data page of the passport. An automatic administrative decision-making system is established, which is an integrated service that allows operations previously carried out through human intervention to be carried out in an automated manner. Dear Parliament, In order to further develop the processes, the bill proposes that, with effect from 1 January 2022, the number of cases that can be dealt with automatically should be increased in cases where the authority does not have the data directly but can obtain it by automatic transmission of information. In our view, this can significantly increase the number of cases that can be dealt with automatically, which requires revision of sectoral legislation. The law does not determine the method by which an automatic decision is taken by the authority, so the authority can also use human involvement, but the proposal also does not rule out making a decision without its human involvement. In the future, full or partial automation can be developed through artificial intelligence in order to reduce bureaucracy and rationalise human resources. The modification in force since 1 February 2021 introduced the video technology-based identification service. This identification service primarily facilitates electronic administration, i.e. the customer does not need to use the password of the customer gate or the ID card before the electronic administration, and can only identify himself with the help of his facial image. However, the technology is also suitable for a safe, closed video system to deal with the client live instead of electronic administration. In view of the pandemic situation, it is important to reduce the number of personal appearances, so such regulation is necessary in order to preserve the health of Hungarian people. The bill allows for the application of technical directives for chimney sweepings for combustion products. The technical directives for the chimney sweeping industry will make the application of the law considerably easier as they define technical solutions not covered by the legislation or the standard, which are acceptable in the course of implementation. The technical directives are flexible and fast to follow the technical and IT developments of each technical process, the emergence of new market products, thus avoiding the need to constantly modify the chimney sweeping legislation and standards. The bill considers technical directives to be equivalent to the technical specifications laid down in the legislation or standard, which should not be contrary to the legislation and standard. Its application is voluntary, so the designer is free to choose which specific technical solution to use to meet the statutory safety level. The technical guidelines shall be drawn up by an expert committee with the participation of institutional representatives of the sectors concerned by the chimney sweeping industry and shall be issued by the Head of the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection. Dear Parliament, The application of this type of technical guidelines is not unique in Hungary, as this solution has been in practice for several years in the field of fire protection and construction. Overall, the bill before this House aims to make the official affairs of citizens simpler and faster in many areas and to make it faster and simpler when adopted. To do so, it will create a legal environment that will allow for a more accurate and efficient procedure for public authorities. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss, discuss, and accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-08-65	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Dávid Héyj. I give you the floor. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-66	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill on the House's table is to facilitate the more efficient functioning of each register, the increase in interoperability and the electronic administration. State science research shows that these objectives are essential for the efficient functioning of the customer-centred service state. Of course, it is not negligible that the records kept by the State are always and always credible and accurate. Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State presented the main points of the proposal to us in detail in his exposé, so I would like to briefly highlight the essential points. In addition to the requirement of the authenticity and accuracy of registers, it is also necessary to ensure that data exchanges between registers are carried out smoothly, in line with the technological development of today, as well-functioning interoperability accelerates administration, reduces administrative burdens on citizens and improves the efficiency of public administration. In the course of the project, the development of the NAVÁS, i.e. the national register of data, the management system of the driving licence and the vehicle register undergoes complete IT renewal, which will enable the launch of a number of transport management cases electronically. [[12.20]] The fact that the licence will be issued automatically from 1 February 2021 will also make it easier for citizens to check how the certificate is issued, so that everyone will be able to verify that the necessary conditions are met. It is a forwarding idea that technical development can eliminate the outdated nature of bureaucratic storage, and therefore the central repository of documents is established, which, as an electronic repository of documents, combines paper and future electronic documents from the past, which need to be preserved. Ladies and gentlemen, The establishment of an automatic administrative decision-making system should also be highlighted, whereby, where all the information necessary for the decision is available, the administrative steps between initiation and closure of the case will be carried out without human intervention, automated by means of which the General Administrative Regulation Act 40. The automatic decision-making procedure laid down in Section 2 of this Article shall be carried out. As the Secretary of State pointed out, the video technology-based identification service allows for facial identification in electronic administration rather than customer gate password. At present, it is only possible to process through video contact in cases specified in civil or criminal proceedings, but also in the current situation of the coronal virus pandemic, there is a clear need to establish a regulation allowing these procedures, where the client's statement can be submitted in person or can only be submitted in such a way, to allow facial and signature to be recorded remotely, thereby significantly reducing the number of personal encounters and personal contacts. I think it is important to note that the legislator rightly recognised that it is desirable to regulate IT systems and registers linked to the use of social security benefits as an independent sub-sector in the health sector, since health insurance itself is part of social security. In view of the coronal virus epidemic and the social importance of electronic systems, priority should also be given to the continued functioning of industry. The same consideration will guide the legislator to include the health product and raw materials sector in the health sector, which will lead to a higher level of protection for medical devices, products and raw materials, disinfectants, medical oxygen and vaccines that are essential for health care and the fight against the epidemic. Dear Parliament, The draft law also includes a number of changes that are forward-looking and to be highlighted, such as the development by a committee of experts of technical directives on combustion products, which, through their voluntary application, ensure that both the statutory level of security and the freedom of design are fulfilled, as well as the possibility of using services provided by the public services centre under the Act on Government Administration to those with other employment relationships outside the scope of the law, and, I think, this is one of the most important parts of it, the inclusion of nationality names on the private passport, and the establishment of fully electronized administrative processes with the launch of the integrated administration system next year. Dear House, The amendments laid down in the bill before us take into account both the principles of data protection, such as data saving and the requirements of the GDPR Regulation, in determining how data are processed, as the protection of the rights of the data subject is of guaranteed importance in the process of data processing. I believe that the draft law can create a legislative environment that, while ensuring a more accurate and efficient procedure for public authorities, will put less bureaucratic burdens on citizens in the future. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill, and I encourage all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-68	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In order to simplify certain administrative procedures, we have the necessary legislative amendment on our table. It's a salad law again, and if I count it correctly, it contains 34 amendments to the law, so we're going to amend 34 laws. Unfortunately, this is a rather common practice for Fidesz-KDNP in the last 10 to 12 years by constantly submitting legislative amendments by amending a lot of legislation. It was not uncommon when it came to our table with hundreds of laws close to it or more than a hundred. This is an extremely difficult task for Members of Parliament, however, because those who wish to look at it conscientiously and to review these laws need to do a very long and thorough job to look at them, especially given the fact that, unfortunately, we have seen several times over the last 11 years that, on the part of the Fidesz-KDNP, in the salad law, there have been hidden legislative proposals which, on the one hand, have not been in place and, on the other hand, have tried to carry them through in secret to make them less noticeable by opposition representatives, and that is why they have been hidden in a bill or, where appropriate, in its closing provisions. So we're talking about one of these salad laws here, and then it comes to mind whether there's a connection between 34 amendments or not, because unfortunately, it's common when there's no connection. Obviously, there is a need for a salad law in the event that those legislative proposals are indeed linked, but in fact they should be dismantled if there is no logical, professional, professional relationship. This bill, which is now lying on the table of Parliament, is a bill in which we find the link between the 34 amendments, and indeed, if we look at the purpose of the bill, we see positive things here, because, let us say, it is easy to state that the goal is important and noble. What are these goals? Ensuring the more efficient functioning of each register is obviously a very important issue here, ensuring greater interoperability, ensuring more automatic transmission of information, facilitating electronic administration. So these are the objectives set out in the legislation that this is necessary. We fully agree with this, because cutting red tape is a very, very important task, because what people, ordinary citizens, see when they go in to one authority, have been constantly confronted over the past period, and they face today that they are facing extraordinary, often very bureaucratic obstacles, where administration becomes very difficult, almost impossible for the simple person. The costs are already increasing here, since they often have to hire a lawyer for administration, ask for help from a lawyer; in many cases, this will raise many other problems, and it will obviously also burden the financial ones. The other problem, on the other hand, is that simplifications are important and that it is important to reduce bureaucracy and speed up administrative procedures, the development of a pandemic situation, which has been leading to the lives of Hungarian people and to the lives of people living in almost every country in the world for the past year. And obviously, when we talk about the need to constantly reduce the relationship between man and man, when there is a need for distance, the authority does not welcome it, nor does the person requiring administration want to meet as often as possible, especially in a place where fifty or a hundred people had already been present that day. So it is better to avoid this in view of the pandemic situation. There have obviously been many developments in Hungary over the past 10-15 years that would eliminate this situation, regardless of this pandemic situation, and there are many positive examples of how much easier the electronic procedures and electronic registers have made administration in many cases, but sometimes more difficult, because often the legislator and the executive do not pay attention to the fact that the procedures of certain authorities operate on the basis of a different system, require a different format for one authority, a completely different format for the other authority, and thus virtually a simple person who is not trained in IT, cannot really navigate along these designated routes and cannot find a solution in very many cases. [[12.30]] In addition to the fact that an average citizen should now have a legal degree, it is now almost necessary for a citizen to have an IT degree or training in order to be able to adjust to the administrative mazes. So these are the difficulties that must be overcome in these cases, which must be overcome. Returning to the specific bill, this bill therefore addresses the simplification of the operation of individual official registers, the indication of the nationality name on the passport, the automatic administrative decision-making system, the administration through video technology, the IHR system and other proposals. Indeed, it is important here that state-run records are credible, accurate, so that the administration can be smooth and the more important is the automated processing of these processes, which reduces the burden on citizens and improves efficiency. In particular, the fact that the driving licence, the vehicle registration system, undergoes complete IT innovations, thereby improving public credibility and accuracy, is certainly welcome, as is the case with the design of the electronic register. The next important thing that comes out here is the legislation, the nationality name on the passport. Personally, I have always been of the opinion that if we are about to be a minority in a particular country, a particular person, then what he expects is what he expects in a reverse case. So obviously we can imagine ourselves very much in the situation of the nationalities living here, because a significant Hungarian population of millions was forced to go beyond our borders because of the unjust Trianon peace dictatorship, and it is very disturbing for the people living there, the Hungarians who live there, to use their names either in their identity card or in their passport, in an untranslated way. I would like to mention here that it appeared in a song, for example, when after the Trianon peace in the Highlands, Mary Kovács became Mary Kováčová, and now she had to use her name officially. But think about what happens in Transylvania: when a lady gets married, she always takes up her husband's name, because in this case she doesn't have to Romanianize the name, but she can use it in that form. So, obviously, they tried to play it everywhere the way the legislation allowed it. Obviously, if we expect that the Hungarians living in the Uplands or Transylvania can use their names in the original Hungarian form, or even the Transcarpathian Hungarians, where the situation was even more serious, because their names were completely Russianized at the time, and they may not even remember their original names in trace amounts, so if we expect the Russians there to do so, then it is obvious that we should also consider the form in which a person belonging to a particular nationality intends to use his name. It is very important that you can use in your passport the name that he would like, which is indeed the name of his nationality. So this is a legitimate expectation, and this must be supported in any way. The automatic administrative decision-making system is a very interesting institution when decisions are made automatically, which was only possible in the past if permitted by law or government decree, or if the authority has all the information at its disposal. It didn't require consideration, and it wasn't a counterintuitive client. In these cases, this could be used so far. This would now be a change, and beyond that, further development of processes is necessary, and in other cases this automatic decision could also be taken. Video technology management and communication are as follows. It's the XXI again. product of the century here in Hungary. So far, these have been used in court proceedings, criminal proceedings and civil proceedings, where this system has already been tested. This was a good test, after the initial difficulties this system passed a good test. This means a closed video system, the technology is suitable for this and it is also necessary to extend it in official procedures. This is also to be accepted as a maximum. It is another issue, and it is very important that it can go only when it is permitted by law, and this is only possible, but it is not mandatory, or that the official body cannot disclose an obligation in the context of a video technology relationship, so it can only be done in writing in the future, and obviously this can be done in a traditional way, in writing or electronically. Then public employment is also affected by another important issue regarding legislative amendments. This is the opportunity for Start social cooperatives to be able to employ public workers now. There's an important problem here, and it shouldn't be swept under the rug either. So what we need to see is that these social cooperatives have in many cases given rise to abuse over the past period, and in many cases abuses have been carried out, which is serious abuse, and we have heard about billions of budget cuts here, and we have read these in the press more than once, so there have been serious problems with them. I don't know, you've managed to recover from these child diseases at all, but if we extend this to the employment of the public workers, obviously there are two options. Or there is an increase in the possibility of abuse, so it is obvious that this is the case, and on the other hand, the question is how well this program has been tested, since public employment provides so little for people and families with material shelf life, which is taking these people and families to the border, so that they can buy at least the most basic things at some level, rather than get to the threshold of hunger. Obviously, starving to death is a lot, but making a living on this money is not enough, and as I stressed, it can also be an opportunity for abuse. It is therefore questionable whether this is a positive shift. If this would indeed expand the labour market in Hungary, and the number of public workers would increase with this, and what I am saying is a bit contradictory now, but if I come to the situation that in North-East Hungary, whether Borsod County or Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, where public employment has meant almost only one job expansion over the last ten years, then we say that public employment has actually passed a good test, because it has provided people with a certain level of livelihood. On the other hand, we do not see the possibility that public employment is a stepping stone to return to the real labour market and to the labour market, so public employment has not provided this opportunity properly. We have also seen that in recent years the number of public workers has been significantly reduced by the government, which in North-East Hungary, and this was, in particular, serious problems for my narrower Patria, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. Where there is a broad population that does not have adequate education, it cannot be competitive in the labour market, it will be the only option, but it seems to me that my time is running out. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience, and thank you very much for your attention. [[12.40]]
u2021-04-08-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-08-70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The physical bill contributes to improving the efficiency of public services and to the functioning of the customer-centred service state. For the functioning of an efficient State, it is of the utmost importance that the records kept by the State are credible, accurate and that the exchanges of data between each register are carried out smoothly and automatically. My fellow Member and Secretary of State presented the proposal in detail, and I would therefore like to highlight the points that are of particular importance to me and to KDNP. On the one hand, the NAVASZ project aims at simplifying the operation of individual official registers, in which the driving licence, as we have heard, is undergoing a complete IT renewal of the vehicle registration system. The project will build an electronic file and allow and facilitate the electronic launch of a number of transport management cases. In order to achieve these objectives, the law will also be amended or supplemented by a law on travel abroad and a law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses. The personal data and address register will be renewed, the electronic file will be created. As we have heard, an important element of the bill is that they can also request the indication of nationality names in private passports issued by the Hungarian national authorities. This is a very important step. I would also like to highlight the automatic administrative decision-making system, which is an integrated service, whereby operations previously carried out through human intervention are carried out automatically, the administrative steps between the start of a case and the closure can then take place automatically in a specific case. I would like to point out that, in the light of the pandemic situation, it is necessary to establish a case-by-case management based on video technology. This is an important lesson in this period, during which both facial image and signature can be recorded remotely. An integrated public administration system has been introduced to support agricultural water use procedures; it is also appropriate to use it for other matters falling within the remit and competence of the disaster management bodies, which will create fully electronic administrative processes, including fire protection, market surveillance, hazardous plants and freight transport, as well as the transport of dangerous goods, the protection of vital systems and facilities, the prevention of nuclear accidents and civil protection. I would like to point out that there has been a gaping amendment to the chimney sweeping activity: with regard to the Law on chimney sweeping activities, the bill would allow a committee of experts to draw up technical directives on fire products. The expert committee would be operated by the official disaster management body with the participation of institutional representatives of the sectors and professions concerned. Overall, the bill aims to make the official affairs of citizens simpler and faster in a number of areas, thus creating a legal environment that enables authorities to proceed more accurately and effectively. Therefore, KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2021-04-08-71	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We are here in this House a lot of times when we are having a little professional debate about salad laws or more complex professional laws, and it may not always be possible that if someone is following this on television, or, let's say, watching the Internet broadcast, or following it anywhere in the online media, they can't always be connected to it. However, it is very simple to say what its objectives are, and this proposal has many goals that are also absolutely eligible for opposition. How many of us have been in this room, but of the citizens who are watching us now, how many people have been in a situation where they have tried to deal with a different authority matter or any request, asked for a third form and a fourth sign, a sign like that, everything was turned in, and then weeks later it was discovered that something had been forgotten, which made it all start over again! How do I put this? They can also remind us of terrible literary works about the omnipotence of bureaucracy, and I think these are things to be overcome by the 21st century. In the century. I said this only as an introduction because, first of all, I would like to say that we will support all efforts to simplify people's lives from this point of view. I would like to highlight four positive points from this proposal. One in relation to the NAVASZ project, which has been said several times by my fellow Members, should be supported by all efforts that can be found in database cross-checking, faster and wider electronic administration. Of course! I think that if there is something that this epidemic makes important about official affairs, for example, it is possible to deal with matters electronically, remotely, as efficiently and as quickly as possible. It's absolutely to be supported. I would like to highlight the indication of the nationality name on the passport. I think that this can be an exemplary thing that can also help the affairs of Hungarians across the border in a symbolic matter. Of course, you can think of this as a symbolic matter, but otherwise, I think that this could be an important matter related to the preservation of their identity. So I think that this is the thing that you have to do with the foreign affairs, for example, to present this properly, whether for the neighbouring countries, by assuming some form of reciprocity from the partner countries, in particular, where Hungarians live as indigenous nationalities. An automatic administrative decision-making, i.e. when a kind of decision-making procedure can take place without the involvement of human resources, is justified and extended to XXI. It's like a century old. I am also thinking about the issue of a driving licence without involving an administrator, and I think that it is also important to manage it through video technology. In connection with the registration of companies, examples can be heard at a number of points that are now positive on the part of stakeholders. So, in order to perpetuate them in the Hungarian legal order and make it easier for citizens to live in advance, this is certainly important. And here I could cut my point short from a certain point of view, but I think that there is a deficiency in two areas, and I am not sure that in the specific text of the norm, but in two cases I think it is necessary to talk in Parliament about the fact that it has achieved its objective in recent years, in the last 11 years, legislation in this House. One: I have to note a few things about social cooperatives and public employment, because this is related in this respect. Obviously, there is a sense of intention, which I think is twofold, by means of such an intermediary as social cooperatives, to somehow direct the stakeholders towards the primary labour market, which I understand, but there is a 10-year time limit for public employment in terms of participation in the Public Employment Programme. If we look at the norm text in one and the other, then, I think that the attempt to stop conflicting for you until the parliamentary elections, that one can no longer receive public service, cannot be public serviced because this time limit has been exceeded either way. There are two things that should be achieved by such a program. On the one hand, it means providing a decent and adequate livelihood for the participants in it. [[12.50]] That this program has achieved this? Clearly not, he couldn't reach it. There have been a lot of social disputes, 47,000 forints to live on, and that's what we've heard from your politicians. Obviously, these are unworthy revelations. These people have not been able to break out of the situation in which they have been involved in a very large number of times in the past ten years. I'm telling you, as a resident of a county, I live in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, Miskolc, which actually shows two faces in this regard. For example, Tiszaújváros, one of the most advanced Hungarian settlements with the most serious economic power, obviously provides a substantial livelihood for its inhabitants. But I could say Berente, I could tell you a lot of other areas from the county, so it's not very bad everywhere, and it's not just public employment everywhere. Of course, there is also a very serious primary labour market, including the county seat, Miskolc, of course. But, let's say, in certain areas of Abaúj, in the Bodrogs or in North Borsod, I see that in 11 years certain settlements have failed to break out of this. It has not been possible to break out, the system that has been built, public employment is not enough for anything or enough for vegetation, together with social cooperatives and everything, to shift these masses to the primary labour market in large numbers. So this is the thing we're dealing with. I think I can also say on behalf of our opposition colleagues that, after the change of government, we are going to take on this task and put it on a flag at this time, that we want these difficult areas of the country to break out of this terrible situation. By the way, this could also be a huge labour market reserve for Hungary. Over the last 11 years, we would have needed re-training, training, and not the, in case the ten years are up, let's find a way to resolve the options until the election. I don't think that's enough. I get it, but the truth is, the core of the problem couldn't be solved. And the other is that I welcome the fact that more and more things can be done electronically, but I would add how much can, for example, be based on a home address register or on a home address database that the data in it is authentic. Speaking of elections in the last minute or two, let's talk about next year's election, because a phenomenon does irritate citizens and has been raised many times by opposition representatives, including representatives of the MSZP here in the House, there is no solution. There is also specific information about how many people, including hundreds of people, have heard of such numbers being registered as permanent addresses, who are obviously nationals across borders and who can then abuse their right to vote in a given constituency or otherwise use rights and services in Hungary that they would not otherwise be entitled to. This is obviously ridiculous for the address report. It's perfectly clear that it's illegal, it's perfectly clear that reality has nothing to do with the data that exists there. It is not certain that this issue must be settled in this legislation, it may not have to be done here, but I would just like to say that in the coming months we will need a comprehensive examination of this issue in order to see what has happened and not to allow such phenomena to take place, so that for Hungarian citizens such issues can be resolved in a satisfactory manner, so that Hungarian citizens believe in the data in such registers. So, there's a job, there's comments. Overall, I have highlighted four things that are really forward-looking from this proposal. We've got a few weeks ahead of us. Answer these questions and those that will still arise in opposition speeches or in the Commission's section. I very much hope that this bill can still be amended in the coming weeks so that it can be acceptable to everyone. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-08-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zoltán Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The thing is, I could say that one eye cries and the other laughs or that I'm terrified. The package of legislative proposals before us, this salad law, if it is picked up by an unsuspecting but enthusiastic interested party, may snap your tongue, as we can see that Hungary is in the 27th place of the 28 EU Member States in terms of the development of the digital economy and society. So it's safe to say, and I think we agree there's something to bring in and there's room to grow, and there's a way to go. One part of this is what you are putting forward in this bill: efficient digital and electronic administration. This is based on the right background, infrastructure background, optical networks, server rooms, it can continue and work, user-friendly and well-functioning services, a stable and reliable IT background, we can see, even with regard to election software, that there is plenty to bring in here, and I do not want to look beyond this situation now, and obviously the prepared, motivated and well-paid public service officials. So whoever suddenly gets this bill package before you says hurrah, because there's something here to improve on the efficiency and quality of public services. However, if we look into the proposal itself, it turns out that this package of proposals is absolutely not going to resolve this. There are obviously ten nasty years behind us, let's say we opposition representatives and millions of Hungarian citizens with us who can face the state's inability to function or its strange operation every day, and apparently this package of proposals focuses more on getting more information about citizens and access to them by more and more authorities and organisations. This package of proposals poses an increasing risk when linking systems, simplifying data requirements and broadening their scope. It is interesting and we need to talk about the fact that the functioning of the state and the government, according to a particular system, is becoming increasingly opaque and complicated, to the extent that significant amounts of data of public interest are encrypted, and that what is accidentally not encrypted is not accessible, and can only be obtained through lengthy lawsuits. On the other hand, we see that data collection and monitoring of citizens are slowly becoming complete. You know, Big Brother sees everything. One cannot help but wonder if we are getting closer to China, paying back to them as much as possible, and reading if we do not see that members of the Chinese secret services are practically handing the doorknob to each other with Russian secret services. It can't be a coincidence that the Orbán system has been working on a total control similar to that of China, and this job, I might say, has been going on systematically for years. When we look deep into these things, we see that since 2017, these processes have seemed to have accelerated. Let's go through this quickly, or else without the need to be complete, I'm thinking about what I'm thinking. [[13.00]] In 2017, the so-called health reporting system will be introduced, which collects a great deal of data, sensitive data, not only about our health status, but also about our sexual habits and partners, which, in this way, seems rather steep. The citizens, perhaps the new law adopted in December 2018, which entrusts a central organisation with the management and storage of all images and recordings produced by the police, road operator, public area supervision, financial service providers and even passenger service providers, is also aimed at our full control. Do we understand what we're talking about? Practically everything runs into one place. In fact, single data storage means the creation of a visual surveillance system that can be used to collect classified information, as well as in Beijing, which covers almost the entire territory of the country. This will allow law enforcement agencies to monitor anyone and anything at all and at the same time on the basis of a general mandate. Otherwise, it is so real that I must add, so quietly and parenthesesly, that this danger, that even the data protection and information authority has repeatedly called attention to the need to carry out an impact assessment and that the possibility of making images and recordings is that this can only be done in particularly justified cases and limited. Although making the rules on electronic surveillance systems more transparent and uniform is a step forward in any way, I recognise this, because at present, as many legislations resolve this issue, there are so many solutions, such as retention times changing from legislation to legislation. However, it is missing and, therefore, I would consider it particularly important to include the appropriate guarantees in the regulation in relation to the storage and use of recordings, and it may also be an important guarantee element to carry out an impact assessment under the GDPR referred to by NAIH, since this impact assessment should not be carried out separately as a controller. It can be seen from this mass of proposals and government rhetoric points in this direction that these steps are part of the digitalisation strategy and can represent and serve the functioning of a modern state. Which I could accept if we didn't live in Hungary, because these, which are listed here by the government and the government, are all about the modernisation of assets, but the goals are old, well-known and tasted: we are talking about the full monitoring and control of citizens. Therefore, in my view, these changes will not serve our security legally, but most importantly lead to the total vulnerability of the citizens, the Hungarian people, in the hands of this government. The government came up with this in 2019, and, of course, for employment policy purposes, by bringing public workers into cooperatives, and here my socialist colleague, who spoke before me, referred to this, to help them reintegrate into the competitive sphere. That sounds great, and it's a great thing, but as they say to us, there's a fucking problem that, based on the experience so far, it doesn't seem to be working. According to the law, it is necessary to participate in the establishment and operation of public employment law, either as a public authority or as a state, and to be among its founders of a person who has a public employment relationship with the municipality. In other words, in practice, the employer and the worker in a vulnerable position become members of the resulting organisations, the cooperative operation is considered to be in the least ethical and does not even seem to be insured. This would assume that members should be both owners and workers and that they should be involved in decision-making, which is certainly untenable in such an addiction. But let us go back to the part of the bill that no doubt contains positive and forward-looking elements for me, so that we can talk about it, and not be a total buzzkill. What are they again? These are the reduction of electronic administration, video contact management and administrative burden. This is clearly a positive and welcome thing. However, I find it totally unacceptable to collect data that raises data protection concerns, to expand the range of data requirements and management rights, to establish a comprehensive single registration system and to set up a so-called log system. For example, we cannot read about the position of the Data Protection Authority in the bill, even though the proposal raises serious data protection concerns on a number of points. This bill is about a lot of things, among other things, and let me really just highlight a few of them in a flash. According to the amendment of the Foreign Travel Act, in duly justified cases a person who is proposed to supply the passport to the person by the competent minister may receive a service passport. As Debrecen, I particularly remember the Judszak service passport. The question is whether it's automatic for football players or what's going on with it. Perhaps this was also mentioned by a pro-government representative, an amendment to the Law on Chimney Sweeping, which sets out, among other things, technical directives for the chimney sweeping industry. This is all very nice, but let us not forget that the sector is suffering from a serious shortage of workers. Technically, it was you who destroyed this entire sector. It all started with the deployment of disaster management tasks, if you remember, when professionals who had previously worked in the region had not been recruited, and as a result hundreds of people had left this track, and since then they have been working in other jobs. Thus, it is not possible to find a qualified chimney sweep with appropriate professional experience in the labour market with a magnifying glass. Since the training of a worker requires several months of training, the shortage of labour in the sector can persist and existing professionals should be regularly working overtime in order to fulfil the tasks. Despite all this, disaster control is still not able to carry out its tasks, no matter what anyone says. Not so much that they no longer carry out so-called so-called so-called works in about a quarter of their respective settlements: there is no monitoring of combustion and heating equipment, there is no cleaning, and there is a mandatory review, which significantly increases the risk of heating accidents in gas-fired systems. As I began my speech, unsuspecting and enthusiastic readers of this proposal could now snap their fingers. But reading through the bill package and knowing your past ten years of activity, that click is not gonna happen. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]]
u2021-04-08-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Yes, we have a very interesting salad law ahead of us, which has already been reviewed by my opposition colleagues as to the number of cases they face with a bill, how many laws they amend. I generally agree with my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre in the debate on such laws, and I am having a little debate with him. He felt that he had found the points of interconnection in these various cases involved, and I think it was unjustified to drag these cases into a law. By the way, there are very important proposals, which should have been presented in a separate law, and then they could be assessed and judged in substance. So my criticism is stronger from this point of view, I think this law is incoherent in this regard, and they have tried to combine amendments in such a salad law that will certainly stretch the framework that it can afford, even with goodwill, with this kind of legislation. [[13.10]] We have heard very long speeches on the bill. In fact, we were listening to these system problems around the affected areas, and I thought that I would go a little in that direction too, but I would rather overlook that, given that Csaba Gyüre has already done this very well, in a very good quality. Actually, I'd just like to refer briefly to some of the points that have been made here before me. It is no coincidence, by the way, that Csaba Gyüre from Szabolcs or Congressman Varga from Borsod mentioned the issue of public work and public employment. I, too, represent the county of Baranya, although I live in the city of Pécs, but we can still say that Baranya County has social problems in many respects similar to Borsod. On a slightly smaller scale, Pécs is a little smaller than Miskolc, and the county is also an area with fragmented settlements, with very serious, extensive crisis regions, where, overall, from the perspective of 11 years, the government's legislation and social policy on this matter have practically failed its economic policy. In fact, we can say that they have renounced these crisis regions, that they have renounced the falling regions. At any level, this kind of policy could not even slow down the breakdown. Mr Varga also pointed out that if we look at next year, there will be elections next year, we will have to solve these problems. I think that the most important thing is to say what the goal is that we will have to create the laws, and here it is clear that these crisis regions must also be saved, and in the same way that the government has given up on them, we must not accept it, and every region must be given the opportunity to stop and really develop. What has been said by my colleague in DK, we have heard a very strong criticism here about the relationship between the government and the big brother, how he is trying to entangle our lives with these information technology tools in terms of government and power. I think we need to separate the two things here. On the one hand, we obviously have very little confidence in the government, but on the other hand, if we look at what the proposals are about and what tasks it outlines, then it must be said that this is the future, and obviously the most important thing is that these different services, the system of public administration, can be digitised and made more efficient. It must be transformed in such a way that it makes life easier for citizens, and we are in a terrible situation, in an epidemiological situation where the various IT technologies, we can say, have come to the fore in all respects, out of compulsion. And this has also highlighted the fact that we are lagging behind, and the statistics that have also been quoted by my fellow Members are, unfortunately, correct. We are at the end of the line in this regard in the EU and it is absolutely justified to take these steps. Obviously, I am skeptical that this government will be able to implement these steps effectively. But it is quite certain, and this is also seen from this bill that there is a regular lack of substantive discussions. And I do not understand, and I would also like to ask the Secretary of State why, if you are intended to take such steps, you do not conduct appropriate social and professional consultations that are essential for these amendments to be operational. I don't understand. We could give a long list of examples, perhaps the worst example of what has happened in health in recent times, also on the part of the Ministry of the Interior, that, by failing to agree properly, there could be virtually a tragedy or a terrible problem with such harsh and non-negotiable legislation. Obviously, there is no such critical situation here, but it is still apparent that they are submitting amazing salad laws and saving the reconciliations that would be needed, and otherwise, what they have set for themselves as a minimum requirement. Overall, I can say and have already mentioned this in very detail, my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, there are a lot of elements in this proposal that are forward-looking and positive, and I would also mention that if one should be mentioned, the indication of the nationality name in the passport is a very positive proposal. I could give you a long list of things that we agree with and, by the way, which is positive, but overall, we have relatively many concerns that we cannot accept this bill in itself. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-77	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. As this is a nationality item, it is now possible to have the minority advocate addressed by the committee representing nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovak ethnic advocate Antal Paulik, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language, and then continues his speech in Hungarian. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2021-04-08-78	-akujem za slovo pán predseda! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pan predseda! Vážené panie poslankyne a pani poslanci, národnostní hovorcovia! Vážený pán štátny tajomník! Vo svojom actuálnom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností v Ma.arsku k návrhu zákona číslo T/15699 o modifikácii zákonov potrebných k zjednodušeniu niektorých úradných postupov. Výbor predložený návrh prerokoval na svojom zasadnutí siedmeho apríla. Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear Secretary of State, At its meeting on 7 April 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary adopted a resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 32. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, he discussed in a detailed debate the proposal for amendments to the law necessary to simplify certain administrative procedures. In my speech, I will present to you your position on the draft legislation at this committee's meeting. Of course, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities concentrated on the broad range submitted, mainly on those that affect Slovaks, Germans, Greeks and other nationalities living in our country as nationalities. At first glance, the proposals that were of paramount importance to us in this regard were proposals for amendments to the Public Education Act, the Vocational Education Act, the Higher Education Act, the Civil Code and the Passport Act. However, among the large number of amending legislations, in addition to the ones listed, we obviously had to take into account the other legislative instruments that were to be amended. The current amendments to the law on the status of civil servants are examined primarily from the point of view of the staff of public education institutions operated by national authorities. The law on the registration of citizens' personal data and address is important to us in relation to the specific data relating to nationality. The Equal Treatment Act attracts the advocates with regard to the granting of national rights at all times. In increasing the possibilities of electronic administration, we are looking for further opportunities for the use of nationality languages in public administration. These legislative proposals do not contain points directly affecting nationalities this time, so comments on them and suggestions have not been made by our committee. Any change in the rules of public employment is important to us primarily because of the large number of Roma members who are involved in public employment. We agree with the amendment proposed in this draft, and welcome it, above all in the light of previous requests and proposals from Start Social Cooperatives. The current proposal coincides with the need for many of them to allow the legislator to expand the opportunities of Start social cooperatives, which are also primarily employed by Roma, in order to achieve the primary objective of public employment, in the direction of further employment of public workers. In the case of a proposal to amend the laws on national public education, national higher education and vocational training, we consider it important that the services of the public service passenger services framework can also be used, in addition to other maintainers, by minority self-governments who are increasingly present in the general education of nationality, if they wish to make use of the option. Dear House, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 16. Pursuant to §, the nationality person has the right to use his or her mother tongue according to the rules, its formal recognition and the indication of his or her name in the nationality language appearing in the register on the identity card or in other official certificates. If we accept that the right to name is a fundamental right that can be derived from human dignity, since every person has an inalienable right to his own name expressing his identity and bearing it, then it is safe to say that the recently adopted law on simplifying and electronicizing civil status procedures and amending certain related laws has been a great step towards exercising the right to bear a nationality name. We also appreciate that national governments of individual nationalities have made the list of names used in their websites electronically by means of a legal provision. However, the publication of the name in the registers does not always mean that all problems have been solved in the area of nationality language use. In addition to the phonetic transcription of names, it is still not possible to include them in the registers in accordance with the rules of the mother tongue, so that the decision to publish the native language name in personal documents may later be an obstacle. [[13.20]] Over the last decade, people belonging to nationalities, national authorities and organisations have initiated a series of initiatives to include their nationality names on other personal documents that can be used for identification both at home and abroad. In particular, they wanted to provide the passport as a foreign passport, including the primary means of identification in the home country of each community, as well as the also photographed driving licence, which may also be accepted by the authorities of other countries for the identification of the identity. This claim has been rejected by the competent bodies for various reasons in previous years. Among these, the most common arguments were the volume of international data expectations and the quantitative or broader limits to the extension of the data content of each document. With the electronicisation of personal records, the scope of data recording of each register has essentially been removed. Where appropriate, personal documents based on electronic registers can essentially hold any amount of data. Another issue is that the quantitative limits of the data which may be displayed directly on the card format of the document and which can be read with the naked eye continue to exist. At the same time, it is a question for a Hungarian citizen of a nationality which he considers to be his priority on his document, which is suitable for proving his own identity. Of course, this issue cannot be considered to be closed from either approach today, but it is also worth taking into account, where appropriate, changes in needs and the need for multilingualism. Returning to the issue of the legal provision of rights to use nationality names, we had the opportunity to participate in a consultation on behalf of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary a few months ago in the Ministry of the Interior to extend the possibilities of using nationality names. We made several points at the meeting, one of which was the request for a nationality-language name on an ID card, and the other on other identification documents, as I mentioned on the driving licence and the passport. At the meeting, it became clear to the members of the committee present that the current data content of the driving licence and the congestion of the data contained in it would indeed be difficult to include more than one line for one or more women. We have therefore finally agreed that it is therefore appropriate to leave the content of the licence unchanged. At the same time, in part to inform the competent authorities that the contents of passports will be amended in the near future, we have maintained our initiative on the nationality name to be displayed in the passport. Now, in the relevant section of the package of amendments before us, we welcome with pleasure and satisfaction the opportunity to include in the passport the names of people belonging to nationality in their mother tongue upon request. We consider it an important step, and we welcome the fact that one of our proposals raised at this meeting seems feasible in such a short period of time. And now, at the end of my speech, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to thank all those who, in their speech, supported this changing point. Dear House, The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposes the adoption of the bill on the basis of the summary position expressed. .akujem Vám za posornosť. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-79	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that there is another person who would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When the legislative proposals on bureaucracy reduction and, in particular, since the draft laws on the management of electronic data have been brought before the House, opposition criticisms that have been heard today have repeatedly and regularly recurred. In practice, with the exception of some really concrete criticisms and legislative criticisms, general government criticisms have been made, often in a way that is contrary to themselves. We expect the reduction of bureaucracy to make it easier for citizens to process, and we expect the citizen, when dealing with matters, not to do so with a gastric curve, and, as far as possible, as little as possible to appear in an office, in an office, but to arrange as much as possible from home, from a computer, or from now on it is expected to happen from a mobile phone. Obviously, this requires an IT background, a network with the right bandwidth, the right tools and appropriate data storage IDs. At the time when we were discussing the introduction of the electronic ID card, the electronic data content of the ID in the same room, virtually similar or at times literally the same concerns arose, and look at how well the electronic ID card performs. I also said that speeding up administration, the introduction of an electronic and digitised world in the administration will become truly useful if these IDs are fully distributed, then we can improve these services in a leap and catch up or even prevent the majority of European states from doing such services. So we need data. When a person criticizes why there are data, he wants to prevent electronic administration from working. The data must clearly be compiled, not stored in many places, but a database with adequate access rights, with very high regard to what the rights cover, but with appropriate access rights, the specific field of data should be able to request, thereby preventing the citizen from providing data in many places on multiple forms at the same time, or in electronic form. After all, once it has acquired a data, an organisation of the State is obliged to pass it on to the others for administration. So this is clearly a necessary and a good thing. This proposal, this package of laws, does not provide for the collection of any new data, nor does it provide for the creation or grouping of any new data. I was wondering why there's a log. Logging has been done so far, and it is precisely based on the comments made by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information that the logging is now being changed. In a completely pointless way, the comment about the ESZT is mixed in here, where it is essential to know who has access to what in the ESZT can control, adjust, disable. So it is not true at all what the DK representative here tried to believe that anyone can access the data in the ESZ for any purpose, only in a manner regulated by the citizen, and only in a given medical field, have access to the data. So we have the necessary security. There has been serious criticism of social cooperatives. First of all, we should be clear that this proposal deals with social cooperatives established within Start Work Programmes and Pilot Programmes. It does not deal with cooperatives specialised in the employment of people with disabilities and, in many cases, in violation of the laws, nor does it address the ten-year time limit for the problem facing us in public employment. This bill is intended only to provide the temporary assistance of the Start social fabric when the social cooperative was established, but there is still a duality that it is not yet able to operate fully on a market basis, as a fully independent economic operator without involving public workers. We are now creating the opportunity to help this transition period with the employment of the public workers of the social cooperative, but this does not open up any new public employment areas and does not address it, I repeat, the ten-year limit, which is the deadline for employment in public employment. Otherwise, we will obviously have to deal with this in the coming period. On the whole, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Gyure in particular for his detailed and precise comments from the speeches made. [[13.30]] Obviously, if it is necessary and you see that we look forward to and examine the amendments, but overall I have felt from the speeches that, in addition to the general government criticism, there has been no substantive criticism of the proposal, so I ask that the groups support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-81	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws concerning public education until closure. Government referral T/15708. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I declare that the proposal is held as a minority item by the Parliament. I now give the floor to State Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-82	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. In addition to knowledge, knowledge transfer and the development of student competences, the education system performs a number of additional functions, for example, the task of all educational institutions is to create a chance for our children to receive the best possible education and education despite the natural differences in the family background. For this to happen, the issue of kindergartening is particularly important in our education system. Access to kindergarten services and effective and effective preparation for school start-ups are of paramount importance. During the first years of kindergarten education and primary school, the personal and social skills and skills that promote social inclusion through social contacts and establish later school success are greatly improved. That is why, a few years ago, the National Assembly decided that, in principle, from the academic year 2015 it was mandatory to attend kindergarten from the age of three, so we confirmed that it was the job of the kindergarten to prepare for school, and that is why the legal institution of the school obligation after the age of six was strengthened by the law, by defining as a national central task the treatment of requests for deferment of the school obligation and making decisions in this regard. At the same time, it is important to note that, in addition to all these changes, the possibility of having a child in school only a year later, if the parent so requests. The justification and rationality of the above measures is well demonstrated by the fact that in recent years the proportion of preschoolers in Hungary has increased steadily and exceeds the average of the countries of the European Union, thus exceeding 95 per cent in the four-year population. In particular, the participation of disadvantaged children in kindergarten has increased greatly, which is also important because it can lead to an early start in filling possible gaps, all children can be trained for school, schools can be reduced by differences in skills, and families in need will be greatly helped by security, gradual development, a pre-school environment providing high-quality meals. The success of a three-year kindergarten visit is also supported by the international results of the PIRLS survey in 2019. The Education Office's report states that, globally, 56 percent of the fourth-grade students involved in international measurement went to an institution providing early childhood education for three years, 17 percent for two years and 15 percent for one year or less, and 12 percent of children do not participate in formal education programmes at all before primary school. These international average results show that, together with the time spent in pre-primary education programmes, the effectiveness of pupils is also increasing. From mathematics to 464, 483, 495, and 509; from natural sciences, 452, 472, 489 and 500 points were reached on average by students from each group, so there is a significant difference in effectiveness between those who went to kindergarten and who did not go to kindergarten in front of the school. So anyone who wants to be good for the children, who considers himself child-centred, must not fight to prevent children from having to go to kindergarten, but, on the contrary, must support the government to make this program a success. Dear Parliament, I thought it was important to give this brief historical overview because one of the main objectives of the Government's proposal to amend certain laws before you concerning public education is to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision on a kindergarten and educational obligation procedure, which was adopted two years ago. Since many have interpreted the decision that has been made in recent months in many ways, let us make it clear now. Neither the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights nor the Constitutional Court's decision contested the appropriateness or the essential and decisive elements of the current proceedings, the obligation to go to kindergarten from the age of three in the basic case and the obligation to teach from the age of six, nor to accept and assess requests for deferment where necessary, of course, while involving appropriate expertise, by the Government Office or the Education Office. It should be noted here that this process was smooth in both 2020 and 21, in this year's procedure 16 500 people applied for a stay in school, and the Education Office, after a thorough examination, gave up almost 96 percent of the cases of parental requests. The Constitutional Court has asked for further guarantees to be included in the regulation at the statutory level in order to allow for a one-year delay in the start of the child's school even if the parent does not submit an application or a final decision is reached before the start of the education year or the school year, even if the parent has brought an administrative action against the decision of the body authorising the exemption. The proposed amendment to the National Public Education Act before you ensures the clarification of the procedures for starting a school obligation and a pre-school obligation in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, and allows the child protection authority to initiate a deferment of the school obligation at the Education Office, if justified, and the parent has not acted on the matter. Under the amendment, procedural time limits are shortened. The procedure of the Education Office as the body authorising the discharge will be 50 days instead of the previous 60 days, so that the decision can be made even sooner, while the time limit for the judicial proceedings following any appeal will be reduced from 45 days to 30 days. In exceptional cases, it will be possible, on the basis of a new application, to postpone the start of kindergarten until 31 August of the year in which the child reaches the age of five. We also state in the law that the parent can attach to his application the pre-school documents supporting the development of the child, which, by the way, could and has been done in accordance with the procedure of the Education Office, but I also believe that this amendment provides the appropriate guarantees requested by the Constitutional Court. Dear Parliament, As I mentioned, the amendment proposal was primarily reflected in the decision of the Constitutional Court, but also contains several regulatory elements ensuring that the system of public education functions more effectively. An important element of the legislative amendment is that vocational education or training students will also be able to participate in vocational education or training with dual training contracts, employers will also benefit from the various benefits of students of this type of institution. In order to reduce the burden on families with a type 1 diabetes child, the kindergarten and school, as in many cases already, will participate in intraday care for children with this type of diabetes or elementary school age, such as measuring blood sugar, on the basis of a proposal from the Minister without a wallet for families. Involvement of staff involved in the provision of tasks will take place on a voluntary basis, after pre-prepared work, in return for additional benefits. The bill contains rules on the establishment of independent public education schools. In this case, it is about re-introducing the rules that have already been applied to the law, the provisions concerned allow students to have specific protection aspects, rules and obligations in these colleges, as well as to ensure that educational work can be carried out in pedagogical work, but also in the service relationship. As a guarantee element, the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights commented that these specific criteria and standards should not be contrary to the principle laid down in the National Public Education Act that the student cannot, of course, be subject to physical and psychological discipline. One of the rarely-focused segments of public education is public education for children and students who are undergoing long-term treatment, despite the fact that more than 500 public education institutions are currently carrying out such activities. [[13.40]] The legal status of hospital education in everyday language requires harmonisation. The working group, set up in the field of public education for children and students undergoing long-term treatment, has started its operation two years ago, and has held meetings seven times so far, with the processing of work materials completed in the meantime, as well as with the representative of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. As part of the bill, we propose to regulate the concept and functioning of this activity, which makes the provision of public education to children and students who are undergoing long-term treatment even more effective, thus supporting the students involved in continuing their studies. The beginning of kindergarten was not previously legally established, which in some cases caused interpretation difficulties. Therefore, in the same way as the establishment of a school relationship, the creation of a kindergarten relationship is recorded in the law, in line with the obligation to participate in kindergarten education, as a rule, from the age of 3. On the basis of practical experience, we have also initiated the establishment of rules allowing children to leave abroad. On this basis, it will ensure that children who have left abroad and returned during their kindergarten obligation can continue their domestic kindergarten education with live OM identifiers. The purpose of the amendment is to provide a framework for monitoring the legal relationship in the public education institution system. Free textbook provision is one of the key pillars of the government's public education policy. In order to ensure that the whole process of textbook provision as a public service mission can be achieved as easily as possible, the government is authorised to further designate the body involved in textbook supply and production tasks, thereby increasing security of supply. The coronal virus epidemic has also shown the importance of providing appropriate methodological preparedness for teachers, up-to-date and practical knowledge. The amendment of the law on national higher education serves to strengthen teacher training, to strengthen cooperation between the fields of public education and higher education. It is proposed that the teachers' training centres of higher education institutions coordinate further education, instead of chancellors, and that the management experience gained in the public education institution can also be taken into account in the mandate of the Directors-General concerned. The aim of the amendment is to ensure that, in the future, not only persons moving on academia but also public education professionals with at least 4 years of experience as head of institutions can be appointed as Director-General of Teacher Training Centres. The Higher Education Act currently mentions the coordination of teacher further education as a task of chancellors. As the management model for the model-shifting universities to be maintained by the Foundation is different, the change will enable the Director-General of the Teacher Training Centre to carry out this task in the future. This amendment ensures the maintenance of the high level of professionalism and the interrelationship of pedagogical education and further education. In addition to what has been mentioned above, two more laws are covered by the proposal that has now been tabled. The 2014 LXXXIII on a single electronic card issuance framework The purpose of the legislative amendment is deregulation and simplification in relation to the issue of a teacher's ID. In our view, according to the practice of recent years, it is justified to exclude the card from the scope of the national single card system. As part of the Act on the Education Register, it became necessary to establish new processing authorisations in order to make use of the different preferences as easily as possible. Thus, the Hungarian Treasury's access to the data of teachers who, as a result of the successful pedagogical qualification process, will be necessary to verify the legitimate use of funding from 1 January of the following year. During the four-year renewal election of the National Pedagogical Faculty, it is necessary to verify the eligible participants in the election in such a way that they can compare the data relating to the workplace indicated by the electorate with the data of the employee register, thereby ensuring that the right holders can participate in the election. In order to ensure the lawful use of the software, it is necessary to regulate the possibility of the transfer of personal data subject to the GDPR Regulation. As a result of this amendment, additional services may be available even when using the national public education portal and the textbook catalogue after proper identification. In order to properly carry out the qualifications and the teaching supervisors, it is also necessary to transmit the data of expert training courses, as this can be successfully carried out by an expert in the qualification and supervision procedures. Dear Parliament, I believe that the proposals presented above will help to make the compulsory education and preschooling procedures even more effective through the newer guarantee elements, reduce the burden on families, broaden the rights of children, learners and, overall, make the functioning of the public education system even more effective. To this end, I ask for the support of this House. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-08-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The present amendment of the Public Education Act and the related other laws was reflected in the decision of the Constitutional Court to start a school obligation, as the State Secretary said, but also contains several regulatory elements ensuring that the system of public education functions more effectively. We believe it is important that the laws, including the Public Education Act, go through clarification from time to time and complement them on the basis of the requirements of the present time and the practical experience. That's what's happening right now. The legislative package concerns several laws: the National Public Education Act, the National Higher Education Act, the Single Electronic Card Emission Framework Act, the Education Register Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at these in a row. Based on the recommendations made by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning certain provisions of the National Public Education Act, the portfolio has carried out a review of the procedural rules relating to the initiation of the school obligation and the fulfilment of the pre-school obligation. On this basis, the wallet also proposed to amend parts of the procedure, which is included in one of the backbones of this legislative package. The proposal ensures that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, the procedures for starting a school obligation and a pre-school obligation are clarified, allowing the child protection authority to initiate a deferment of the school obligation at the Education Office if it were justified and the parent would not have acted on the matter. It's a guarantee to protect children. The procedural deadlines will be shortened by the adoption of the bill, which will allow the Education Office to decide even sooner and the judicial proceedings following any appeal can be concluded more quickly. They are also in the interest of children. In exceptionally justified cases, a new application will allow for a deferment of the pre-school start until 31 August of the year in which the child reaches the age of 5 years. Ladies and gentlemen, An important element of the legislative amendment is also the possibility of attending vocational education or training in a dual training facility for apprentices. This is a very important step forward, as dual training has proved its true hope in recent years and it is worth extending it to all areas of vocational training not only in higher education but also in vocational training places. During inter-relationships with the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, it was agreed to extend dual training to vocational schools and to grant employers the same benefits as those granted to students in technical and vocational education and training at external workplaces participating in dual training. Certain elements of the corresponding regulation will apply in parallel to the amendment of the VET Act if the law is adopted. [[13.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment also redefines the law on the establishment of independent public education schools. These rules were already contained in the National Public Education Act, but were deregulated by the division of the public education and training sector as of 1 January 2020, given that the Ministry of Defence typically maintains vocational training institutions. These rules, which will now be amended if adopted, will allow students, among other things, to impose specific protection education criteria, rules and obligations, or, for example, to ensure that educational work can also be performed in the educational field. Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment is important, and I can say that it is a long-awaited element for families that we can continue to help families that raise diabetic children if the legislation is adopted. In order to further reduce the burden on families who have children with type 1 diabetes, if this amendment is accepted by this House, children in kindergarten or elementary school with this type of disease will participate in the day-to-day care of children in kindergarten or elementary school, such as blood glucose testing, kindergarten or school. Of course, it should be noted that our teachers, institutions, kindergartens and schools have done their share of this work honestly in most of our schools, but we consider it important to ensure that this is not just a voluntary task on the part of schools and kindergartens, but a legally guaranteed, introduced rule, so the proposal states that kindergartens and schools are now obliged to provide for these children's day care until the age of 14. Of course, the involvement of staff involved in the provision of tasks in kindergartens and schools will take place on a voluntary basis after prior training and further training, and it is also natural, and the proposal states that those carrying out this task will also benefit from additional benefits. In addition, the bill also points out an earlier question of interpretation of the law. The beginning of kindergarten was not previously legally established, and this caused difficulties in interpreting certain cases. For this reason, as we perceive the legal gap, we introduce analogue rules with the establishment of a school relationship, given that participation in kindergarten education is now legally binding for all three-year-olds. We also initiate the establishment of a legal institution for the cessation of kindergarten status on the basis of practical experience. A break in student status is known by the relevant legislation, but it is also necessary to introduce rules allowing children to leave the country to enter a preschool from the age of three. On this basis, it will be ensured in the future for children who have left abroad and who may return during their preschool obligation that they can continue their domestic kindergarten education with their existing OM ID. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the public education institutional system is in place to monitor the continuity of the legal relationship and the obligation to enter into a legal relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, The most frequently focused segment of public education is the public education of children and students who are undergoing long-term treatment, despite the fact that more than 500 public education institutions perform such activities. It is a very important task that is being performed, especially at the time of the pandemic, but in the period before and in the future, it is very important for those children to receive, in addition to education and treatment, the knowledge that they would receive in primary school, so we thought that it was absolutely necessary to strengthen this area. The legal status of the hospital-edagogical activity in everyday language requires harmonisation, professional assistance, and this amendment is proposed by the wallet, which is largely supported by the Fidesz Group. As part of this bill, we regulate the concept and functioning of activity, which makes the provision of public education for children and students who are undergoing long-term treatment even more effective, thus supporting the students involved not only in their recovery but also in the continuation of their studies. The amendment of the National Higher Education Act aims to strengthen teacher training and to strengthen further training. A part of the bill, which contains this amendment, is intended for closer cooperation between the fields of public education and higher education, i.e. that the teachers' training centres of higher education institutions will coordinate further training in the future. This is also a long-awaited amendment on the part of the profession, since all teachers and schools want assurance that the training they undertake has been based on vocational training and training so far, and that they can obtain the kind of training and the kind of additional knowledge that teachers need in practical experience. (Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat) Replaced by Attila Gelencsér.) The bill also amends the rules on teacher IDs, which will be simplified if the law is adopted. As a first step in the idea of renewing the teacher's card system, it is appropriate to exclude the card from the scope of the national single card system, as the proposed modern technology solution and the benefits and benefits of the teachers' benefits can also be achieved without it. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the proposed legislative amendment package, and I also ask my fellow Members and factions to consider the facilitations, clarifications and the introduction of new benefits contained therein. I think that this is how we can serve Hungarian pedagogy, Hungarian education and public education, so that we can also help families that have a permanently ill child or children with diabetes. Thank you very much for your attention. I wish you a good debate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-85	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to begin by saying that, as the Secretary of State is obviously not going to repeat the Secretary of State literally, but he has formulated in relation to this bill that the most important objective must be to bear in mind, the fate and future of our children, and therefore everything must be done. I think that the people in this room, regardless of their position as a party, all of us think that, at least I trust him very much, but listening here to this bill, listening to your expo and the pro-government speaker, I have come to wonder if we are even looking at a bill. [[14.00]] After all, I have to say that we can agree with about 90 percent of it, but we have a salad law that has very controversial points. I am not taking the positive lines, and I would also like to reflect on this and point out some of them without the need for completeness, but at the same time I would like to respond to what concerns us in any way. On your part, it has been said that it is perhaps one of the most important goals, that it reflects on the proposals made by the Constitutional Court in all respects. Well, I have to say that this amendment does not, in any form whatsoever, reflect on the Constitutional Court's decision to violate parental and child rights, and rather, in the field of compulsory schooling, instead of saying unnecessary administrative procedures, it has brought in another office, it is contrary to, or ignores, everything that it was supposed to reflect on in theory. I also believe, in connection with this bill and with a number of other legislative proposals, that, in addition to being reasonable, it is the practicality that it lacks. I say that I fully assume good intentions about the legislator, but at the same time, it is clear from a number of legislative proposals that, in the absence of practical experience, these legislative proposals will be submitted either in the absence of practical experience with professional organisations, in this case with kindergarten educators or in the absence of consultation with parents. But what did the Constitutional Court decide anyway? In its decision, the Constitutional Court found the current system of school maturity to be unlawful, as the child's constitutional right to start his primary school studies in a formal manner, and at present this is not guaranteed. The decision is binding on the legislator and the direction of change is set out in the explanatory memorandum. The decision should involve kindergarten educators, in particular families where parents do not apply for a deferment at their own discretion. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights also spoke on this issue, and he summarised his arguments in three main points, namely: e-application leads to inequality of opportunity; on the other hand, an increased number of examinations in overburdened pedagogical services are a problem; this is also not in the interest of children; and the deadline of 15 January is too early without appeal, without the possibility of modification, as many children may have a change after the deadline that will require a review of the decision. In the past, preschool educators have decided on the maturity of children, but from now on they will be aliens, complete strangers, who will decide whether to stay in kindergarten for another year or go to school. In the previous general debate on the bill, my fellow Member, Mr Ander Balázs, asked questions about the professional discussions on this issue. Then, as a pro-government response, it came to him: why, with whom should it be? Once again, at least with the kindergarten educators and the parents in this case, in any way. What amendments does this bill contain compared to the original? In the absence of a parent's request, the child's obligation to attend may be postponed by the child protection authority, which may be submitted by 18 January of the year of school start. The amendment continues to place a time limit on the submission of the application, 18 January has been marked, unlike the original 15 January, so a three-day extension has been granted, which, I think, is rather odd, but at least funny in this case. In cases where the parent, guardian, fails to submit the application for any reason, such as delaying the deadline, misjudges the child's maturity, or, after the deadline, new material circumstances arise in relation to the child's maturity at school, the child is obliged to start school because of the child's age. The Secretary of State said that the six-year-old, currently binding, in stone, was not criticised by the Constitutional Court in connection with the start of school. Then allow me to read the Constitutional Court's decision in this regard, merely these one or two sentences: under Article 16 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the child is not obliged to start his primary school studies at the age of six, but, on the contrary, the right to start his school studies when he can be considered school mature. Once again, this cannot be established from a distance, either from a county seat, from the capital or from any of the department's fancy halls. This has been legally and professionally provided for decades by kindergarten teachers, and this is what is now being taken out of their hands. On January 18, the deadline expires when parents may indicate any concerns, request that their children are not felt or considered as school mature, so they ask for another year of kindergarten care and to attend kindergarten. At the same time, however, there are about 7 to 7.5 months between school start-ups, when any circumstances can happen, a factor can be created that unfortunately prevents this, but they do not have the opportunity to correct it or correct it. This is a very big problem in this regard. And then, not just the criticisms, because I started by saying that we basically agree on the goals, and that we agree with about 90 percent of the bill, but let me get to a few things without the need for completeness, as I said. Hospital education is considered to be an extremely important thing, and we fully agree with that. At the same time, however, it belongs here and we must note the situation of SNI students, which is also not mentioned in this bill, although it would require special attention, since their care is extremely important, their treatment is extremely costly, and the state should also take a position on this issue. (Dr. László Varga in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Adam Steinmetz.) The absence of an exam for students in the professional competition: we can fully agree with this question, this thesis, as children, students who are engaged in major professional competitions and who achieve serious results in their own profession are obviously already proven to be excellent in their profession and are exempt from certain exams. The Prime Minister said that these children are the country's gold reserve, he had such a statement. We agree with that statement. At the same time, these gold reserves, if I may call them that, certainly do not offend any student by taking care of him or her and, unfortunately, directing him in the right direction in life is not possible. But what am I thinking? Hungary is the second after Bulgaria in terms of average earnings. Professionals, skilled workers, skilled people don't matter what kind of profession a significant part of us are talking about abroad, imagine his future in the West. The country, the National Assembly, the Hungarian Government must do everything possible to help and create the possibility that these professionals, who, unfortunately, need to be less and less in the country, should also prevail in Hungary and strengthen and enrich the Hungarian national economy. (The presidency of Dr. István Hiller , the vice-president of the Parliament takes over. ) That's all I'd like to say in short. Once again, it's unfortunate, I must say, that such a lot of items have been stuffed into such a salad law. There are a lot of important and supportive issues in this and we are fully supportive of them. It would've been nice if we'd discussed these separately. I would ask the Secretary of State, and through the Secretary of State, the Ministry, to reconsider the points relating to children's educational maturity, since it cannot be carved in stone at the age of six, the age of three at the beginning of kindergarten. It is extremely important that we define certain milestones, but at the same time there are differences. On the basis of the opinions of professionals, these differences should be possible, and those professionals should be local, those who know these children, know these families, and this cannot be assessed centrally. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[14.10]]
u2021-04-08-87	Thank you very much. Welcome. I wish you good work. We will continue with the speaker's speech. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa is the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Member, Mr Jobbikos, began his speech by saying that he did not even know that he was talking about the same bill here on both sides, and then said that he agreed with 90 percent of it anyway. I welcome that. But we're talking about the same bill. We agree with 100 percent, that's only 10 percent, that's not so different. [[Róbert Hondas: Support of two parties!]] You can argue about that and you can shape it. I am pleased that the honourable Member agrees with several points. We can clearly see that the bill before us complements, develops or amends public education laws on several points. One of the amendments that I would like to highlight is of a social nature, since the concept of a child who is undergoing a permanent treatment is regulated, which is a legal institution known as hospital education only in everyday language. According to the amendment, the definition of hospital pedagogical activity is to provide for children and pupils who are undergoing long-term treatment and need long-term hospital care. In addition, the provision of type 1 diabetes children and students adds a new element to the bill. This amendment provides for the possibility of providing types 1 diabetes children, pupils with education and training in multipurpose institutions in acute cases. The persons performing the task will therefore be entitled to a newly established supplement; the diabetes allowance will be based on a uniform salary basis linked to the level of tertiary education, irrespective of the grade of employment. One of the objectives of the bill is to reduce the lack of education for students undergoing long-term treatment, and to ensure that diabetic students can go to school more safely than before in everyday life. The amendments aim at re-regulation of law institutions and re-regulation of defence colleges due to the division of public education and vocational training. These amendments do not represent any new content, but only the 2019 LXXX on Vocational Training. There is a need for various legislative harmonisation amendments due to the entry into force of law. The bill contains specific rules for the publication, production and dissemination of textbooks. If, in such a situation, we are discussing the amendment of the Public Education Act, we should take the opportunity and the opportunities to thank teachers, kindergarten teachers, teachers and teachers for having endured in this difficult situation, both in the time of education requiring personal presence and in the time of digital education, and in this period they are trying to educate and raise our children. I think there's a big thank you to them for this. We encourage them to register for vaccination and immunize themselves if any of them have not yet done so. I think that from time to time, in addition to health workers, social workers, law enforcement workers, soldiers, we should thank our teachers for their support in this epidemic. The government's goal and Fidesz-KDNP are to help education in schools with high quality textbooks that meet national education policies and current school requirements. The Education Office shall produce the necessary textbooks as a body responsible for the development of textbooks and shall ensure that they are monitored and approved in a well-controlled process. From this year's 2020-21 academic year, all students, a total of 1.2 million students, received the textbooks free of charge at the beginning of the academic year. I consider this to be a huge achievement that affects all social groups equally positively. Of course, he provides the most assistance to the poorest. This is a great thing that we have now been able to achieve in full with the achievements of previous years. The free textbook was introduced earlier as a priority of the Fidesz-KDNP government's education policy, and high-quality textbooks are completely free of charge for students in primary schools, secondary schools and the 13-16 vocational education and training courses. On the other hand, during the time of the left, it was only privatisation in the field of textbook publishing that came with the textbook publishing. Instead of the interests of Hungarian teachers and families, they played the Hungarian textbook market for their own principle friends and foreign companies. We can remember this period, because in 2004 the National Book Publisher was privately handed over by the left, the winner of this privatisation was that, no, Ferenc Gyurcsány was the business partner of the then Prime Minister, who obtained the textbook publisher for HUF 3.2 billion, while there was a HUF 1 billion higher purchase offer, worth HUF 4.2 billion. What did this mean for families then, let's take a look at it specifically! An average textbook package during that period was 30,000 forints for one student. If we add that in the economic better years of the Gyurcsány government there were only 110 to 120 thousand HUF per month of the average salary officially published by the KSH, then in the case of two school children, more than half of one parent's monthly earnings went to the textbooks only, and they had not yet bought a school bag, writing equipment, booklets, sports equipment and other school equipment. No wonder that after a financially stressful summer period, tens of thousands of families were terrorized by the start of school year after year. Of course, none of this was seen by your principle friends from where they were sitting. During the period after the textbook privatisation in Gyurcsány, the profit of the privatized textbook publisher was 24 billion, of which HUF 14.5 billion was taken out as dividends. At this price, families had to break into buying textbook packages, while someone in the textbook business made a profit of 24 billion. In addition, more than 16,000 teachers and 2 000 kindergarten teachers were dismissed during left-wing governance, and more than 500 schools and 270 kindergarten schools were closed. As a result of the closure and termination policy, 400 municipalities were completely deprived of any educational institution. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments also let educational institutions in debt, paid low wages to teachers, did not support families, parents, students. This was the policy of education on the left in a nutshell. We say that there is still a lot to do in the area of education, a number of priorities, a number of tasks ahead of us, but our first priority is for teachers to acquire the protective vaccine in the next period, and as life can gradually start again, schools will be able to open up. Since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has continuously increased the amount of budgetary resources spent on education. Education spending in this year's 2021 budget amounts to HUF 2230 billion, which is already HUF 900 billion more than in the last left-wing budget. We continue to increase the education budget year after year, and the renovation and modernisation of educational institutions are also progressing well. We still have plenty to do, but this bill also brings us one step closer to our goals: a quality, modern, national-based Hungarian public education. Therefore, the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2021-04-08-89	Thank you very much. Fortunately for all of us, the House Rules provide that the President cannot give an opinion or speak up, which greatly shortens the current debate. So I can give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman and Lords! I'll try to make it up to you. One always wonders why, and how, in a crisis such as the one we are in now, I am thinking of the epidemic in the first place, and why, and how, such campaignally large amounts of legislative proposals come before this House. Obviously, over the course of today, we will be looking for, for a long time, until late dawn, what are the legislative proposals that are actually intended to be used as a paragon for the unparagonated fundraisers tomorrow. Obviously, in the 31 pieces of legislation that you have submitted, as usual, during the night, I think that it will be very important for you tomorrow, and today we, as opposition representatives, are going to explore what you would like to communicate as a success report in the next few days, what you would like to say in the next period is, well, how much excellent things have been included in Parliament's operation. You have said, Mr Secretary of State and my two fellow members of the Government, that they are constantly thinking about how they can help Hungarian families to make the Hungarian education system better, more beautiful and more efficient. Then I suggest, Mr Secretary of State, that the government and the majority stop scratching the surface in this sphere. Here's the opportunity, there's such an excellent title for this bill, this is the opportunity to live with it, and to touch the education system with substance and depth. Because if you're really pretending that while we were discussing the basic decision, let's say, this six-year-old compulsory schooling thing, you're setting up every little change in this area that, by the way, this system is okay, while we think that the basics of this whole thing are wrong, what you've started here in this case. [[14.20]] Why don't you deal with it, Mr. Secretary of State, why don't you deal with it, honourable pro-government majority, so that children can have a good time at this school? Why do they think it's the 21st? In the century, should the world go to the point where, according to a compulsory curriculum, children have to grow up in some way from compulsory textbooks, the unchangeable nature of methods? Why do they think it's the 21st? Is that kind of static and lexical knowledge for the children of the century the future? In a world where... obviously, now in online educational exams, teachers face countless times how, how, I speak the wrong word, cheating, how the examiner helps himself by having access to every single thing online. CHAPTER XXI We're in the century, and the apartments don't have a big encyclopedia of Révai anymore. The way I grew up, it was a big deal that he was in the apartment, you know, you'd be up there, and if he was up for a school test, he'd be looking at it. Which young man's house, in his apartment, is Révai still on the big lexicon? This period is over, all knowledge is available in one second. Therefore, I think that when we talk about the education system, in any way we want to touch public education, I believe that a government and a power will act responsibly if it is able to free the creativity of the educator and raise a generation for the world that is able to navigate the world, be able to adjust its values and be able to deal with its own life. In no way do I think that what you have been doing over the past ten years with these proposals has met this kind of expectation of Hungarian public education and education. I do believe that I am not an educational specialist, and in this respect I am a substitute, and I am also replacing the excellent Speaker, who is now obliged to sit upstairs, and I really believe what I read in this regard, that the Scandinavian model works because with reduced material, with a much greater chance of creativity, a generation that will be significantly better adapted in the world. I consider this to be much, much more important than restricting the issue of public procedure to what you are trying to sell as a public education reform. I do believe that in the meantime, you are seriously indebted to the teacher's career model. You can't teach a teacher who has to think about what's tomorrow, what's next. Once again, calling back to my own youth, each person has a teacher's ideal, there is a person he remembers from his high school or university years, who were indeed idol, indeed they were personalities that were added to man by their radiance. And today we see people going into a factory, trying to make the most of it by pushing down the mandatory fee. I really say that they are going the wrong way with these things, and I am really trying, in some way, to have a conscience to say that they should think, not hide behind numbers that support you, because in the meantime there are countless numbers that show that the competitiveness of Hungarian children does not hold up in the European world. As far as this bill is concerned, we should give a little to the ultimists and introducers, and that Congressman Nacsa should be able to speak back in his two-minute time: there really are positive elements of this, which we would also like to use here. Indeed, this is a substitute for diabetes 1 among the pro-government representatives, a serious shortage. I think what is good is good, so see how balanced the opposition is and, of course, not anti-vaccination, but pro-vaccination, but I would also like to add this to a later comment. Obviously, we ourselves were pleased to see that this old deficit, which really appeared as a demand, was regulated by this hospital-educational activity. I refer to the fact that I believe that Mrs Dunai has spoken about this as an opportunity for her vocational education and training contract. We believe that this is, in particular, an additional opportunity for those living in a more difficult line to have access to knowledge and to have an income. Personally, I'm glad, although we had a bit of a debate about this kindergarten thing, that you guys did let me go. I think this is the right direction, as I understood Mr Secretary of State's victory report that the child is much smarter when forced from the age of three. However, somewhere you are formally proclaiming yourself to a family-friendly government, and I am willing to accept that you have the results in this area, but I do think that if there is a model of two or three children with a whole baby raised at home by a mother, then the child coming to kindergarten is not such a tragedy that he spends the first time with his parents and siblings in some way. Once again, from this point of view, I think it is right that this opportunity will be created with this bill. I do not want to get into it, the speaker so far, the only opposition representative has said this quite clearly, and I think that the next DK representative after me will say it even more bitterly and hardly, but we continue to find it fundamentally wrong that they are administratively forcing children to start school at the age of six. By now creating the opportunity not only for the parent but also for others to take the initiative, I think that the situation will not change significantly: the administration is much, it does not exactly appear to be behind it. Obviously, Mr Secretary of State knows exactly what we see, because we see the numbers, too, that the Education Office is 90 percent right about the applications, 90 percent is what is actually true. Do we really have to make people do this kind of administrative hocus pocus for 10 percent? Meanwhile, I think it really seems like you have to do something about getting kids access to knowledge every day. I don't want to make a detour, but many of you in this room know that I've been mayor for eight years, and during this period, I've noticed what I've been seeing to this day, how the number of children with SNI has increased. At the time, I always thought that perhaps the reason for this is that other types of normative support are linked to this, that teachers are interested in this, that sometimes the heavier children are classified as SNIs. But no, because by looking into this and talking to professionals, it became clear that really the measurement methods had changed, indeed the technique, the science had changed so much that in a much earlier age group the types of disorders that had only been revealed later. So once again, whatever technological, technical facilitation, mitigation, new aspects are put into this, we will still not be able to support this case, and I have said this in my introduction that we find unacceptable what you are doing on the textbook market. Anyone surfing and looking at social media can see hundreds of disabling examples of what textbooks children should learn from. I don't believe in the fact that a kind of thinking can be forced on such a diverse world as we are going towards, but anyway, I think that we need to give the teachers much more leeway in this, because we teach them, that the state spends all that money to build up their own skills and abilities. Many welcomed the addition of higher education institutions to the teacher training course. I accept that this is a professionally justified decision, but let us add the small thing that we have decided, just now, in the course of tomorrow and in the last few days, that you are slowly slipping this kind of higher education into the private sector. This is an interesting thing, and there is a lot of money in it, so it is also about the fact that it creates a significant surplus of income, and yet the fact is that it is not long ago that state higher education provides this kind of professional background for teacher further education, but will become more and more private. Obviously, you'll deny it, but where we're sitting, that's how it looks. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Secretary of State, I do not want to take up your time any longer: we also believe that, compared to half-full or half-empty cups, we say that, if it is a public education law, we would expect something else, we would think otherwise, so I see a very, very small chance for us to vote in favour of the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-91	Thank you very much. The leader of the Democratic Coalition is Mr Gergely Arató. Here. [[14.30]]
u2021-04-08-92	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, The fact is that I agree with all the basics of Mr Gyula Molnár, but I would like to look at the world a little more optimisticly. Indeed, this bill does not solve any of the very serious fundamental problems of public education, but there are teachers and students, teachers and parents in this public education. Even the one year they have to spend in this barracks education policy, we can somehow make it more pleasant, I think it is also worth it, so I would also like to talk about the elements of the bill that are eligible, positive. There are some, and I think it is good that this bill is not about the big, fundamental issues of education policy, and it would not be right, because there has been enough of public education and public education in recent years to make us all happy that, on this occasion, only smaller and once more, there will be some positive and well-defined amendments in many places. Let me start by saying what is positive and what we see in this proposal. This is how we see the regulation for children who are permanently ill. It's a good thing this goes into the law. By the way, before 2010, this was regulated by a government decree, these types of instruments existed. You lost this on the way sometime when you rewritten the legislation. I'm glad you recognized that this is important. I am also glad that it goes into the law, because it really has its place in the law; if you like it, it was a failure before 2010 that the law did not lay down the basic rules on this matter. This is, therefore, a positive one, and we approve and support it. We support the support points for diabetic children and, of course, the support points for families. We know that this is one of the serious, serious diseases present in this age group. Indeed, the school has a task, indeed, if the school helps these children to integrate with various instruments, it is very helpful for these children and a great help for their families, and the support that is provided in this bill, and it is a great help for the schools and teachers involved in this. At the same time, we urge the government not to stop on this path, not just to highlight a disease, because there are other groups of diseases and other children with different sickness needs who would also need this type of help, and otherwise, in the way that I have just mentioned, they should be given the right to exercise their rights under the law. So think about how the government can proceed on this path. Here it is helping a large group, and I think it is to be supported and right, but the really desirable would be a general regulation, the invention of this. If you like it, I encourage it because I am sure that civil society organisations bringing together the families of such children have also played a major role in this initiative, so that civil society organisations that help sick children and their families formulate their needs in this area, tell me what they have in mind, what they are asking for support for, what is really helping them. Once again, I wish there had been a lot more such initiatives in the last ten years, but I am glad that at least one social group has been heard by the government. What is it that we really disagree with? We very much disagree with the legislation on military colleges, because the student is the student. Protecting the country, serving the country is a very noble thing, which requires a great resignation from those who undertake it. But this decision will be made with an adult head, then they will undertake to accept what restrictions, necessary and proportionate restrictions on their rights are accepted. But the limitation of rights is not necessary and proportionate at all. in the case of college children, even if they choose a military college. And it is not necessary and proportionate to limit rights to this extent in the case of teachers either. Even though this is an institution with a military profile, where defence or defence as a choice of profession is one of the objectives, this does not justify such restrictions. I know there's one in vocational training, and we don't agree with it there. As far as military colleges are concerned, if I can make a silent comment, the experience of recent years has shown that the problem is, unfortunately, not the introduction of strict standards there, but the fact that this system cannot guarantee the protection of existing rights guaranteed by law. Let's remember the very sad harassment cases. Finally, the third subject that I would like to talk about, and that is what the Secretary of State and our fellow Member of the Fidesz mentioned as the most important reason for the law, is the rules on starting and ending kindergarten and entering school in Hungarian. The fact is that what has been incorporated into the law is actually a positive change, in fact, in the right direction. They did not bring it on their own, in vain the profession and the opposition drew attention in the parliamentary debate to the fact that this would not be good as it was introduced, but at least they would listen to the Constitutional Court. At Fidesz, this is not a general thing either, so I am happy about it; I said that I am in such a mood today, that I am trying to find the good. I'm glad you're listening to the Constitutional Court right now, but you're trying to get the minimum, defend the honor of the mundé, you're only changing as much as you have to change on the basis of the Constitutional Court's judgment, while understanding the whole system is wrong. This bureaucratic concept of the entire school maturity system, which you represent, is an absurdity that the high office will decide on this. Why? What's the point? That's just because you like everything to be decided by the Centre and everything by the Bureau. You don't think about education, you think about office. They're simply thinking about this, and they're trying to save this kind of perception by saying that it's good, well, the office should decide, but it should have more rights for the parent, it should be the right measure to allow the guardianship office to act in this case, for example, we support this, but instead of doing that okay, it doesn't work, it doesn't seem to make any sense, and otherwise it causes a lot of complications and difficulties for the parents, and especially for those children where the parent is not familiar with the administration, he doesn't like to turn to the office, it causes problems for the poorer children in Hungarian. This is now partially addressed by the social services office, but the social services office has a lot of other important things to do with really troubled families, and a lot of kids are still going to fall out of this opportunity for nothing anyway. We tabled a separate bill right after the Constitutional Court's ruling, which would have fixed this thing. Excuse me, but we will talk about this later, for example with regard to the Constitutional Court's judgment on invalid pensions; we were not sure at all that the government would be able to deal with this problem within a few years. But since it was commendably thought that they would try to find a solution as quickly as possible, with which we are deeply in agreement, we will now present this bill as an amendment to this bill, which, by the way, will incorporate the positive elements of your proposal. So we are going to submit an amendment in which we are going to initiate the recovery of the normal system of normal education in the world, the parent and the kindergarten teacher, to decide that the child should, if necessary, involve an expert, a specialist and leave the office out of this, that the office should not decide on educational issues, that is not his job, that he is not competent, and that, by the way, it will only involve unnecessary papermaking. All in all, I can therefore say that although this bill does not solve the fundamental problems of education, it also contains minor corrections, some of which are eligible, some of which are unacceptable, and some can be made acceptable if the government wants to. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-08-93	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. Now the first independent Member to apply may speak, and she is nothing more than Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go. [[14.40]]
u2021-04-08-94	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We are talking about children, and we are talking about children, and I would like to respond briefly to today's position of the Minister of Family Affairs here in Parliament, where the position has sunk so far as to distinguish between child and child, good and bad. The Minister suggested that the children of the non-resident population were worth less. Now, I reject that in the name of all good people, because we do not distinguish between children and children, even if a person hopes for political gain in a demeaning way. And two more things. Be kind and tell the secretary that having children is not reproduction. I'm asking the secretary to try to speak culturally as a family minister. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not the law!]] On the other hand, half a million of our countrymen currently live abroad and have children there because of the government's mistake. Let us not forget this when we talk about having children in other countries. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not the law!]] Be nice, don't yell at me. Press the button, you have time, and then you'll tell me what you think. I considered it necessary to respond to today's post here in Parliament's walls. Turning to the law, I am going to talk about one aspect, and the most serious part of the bill, it is indeed a question of school maturity, because we have dealt with this a great deal in the past period, and this bill is actually proof that we were right. I'm not happy about this, because I didn't think it was good when you turned the school maturity system upside down in 2019. We have also given a voice to this, so much so that with 56 opposition representatives we have turned to the Constitutional Court to amend the Public Education Act. If you remember, we were in the same place, it was awfully hot, I think we were about a day before vacation, and you felt it was important that you didn't agree with anyone to pass this law. Of course, it didn't go well. Basically, what happened was that you passed the kindergarten educator and handed over the power to establish the maturity of the school to a central office. I even remember we didn't know exactly what office it was going to be at the beginning. Turns out it's from the Board of Education. Shortly thereafter, however, it turned out that the Board of Education played only the role of the postman, and in fact made it very difficult for parents and pedagogical services. What was the result? Stressed parents, immature children sent to school and burdened specialist services. The law enforcement chaos was complete. Some people absolutely didn't understand exactly what to do. A lot of people were desperate. Do you think this mess was worth it? I don't think so at all. The data show this, and it is a data that I think speaks for itself: 96 percent of the applications were granted by the Education Office. So, basically, I can justify that they made the Education Office a postman, because it was 4 percent what they ruled out, and 96 percent said that they wanted it to be what parents wanted. But there are a lot of children here who have been very bad with this system. On the one hand, because you abandoned the parents, many did not submit the application, which would have been justified if necessary. It is very important that our children go to school maturely. As many parents, as many lives at a time like this, so many children can go wrong with this very important decision. In the new system, parents had 15 days to apply for no help at all. I remember these parental mailing lists and Facebook groups going around the information about what the high government thinks about what needs to be done. I myself sat where Maruzsa is now Secretary of State, and I explained to Bence of Rétvári that he should be kind, write to the pedagogical services, because they didn't understand exactly what their role was. Some said they could do it, others said they couldn't do it. That's when someone gave it to the parents, someone didn't give it to the parents. It was a total mess in the country. I asked for the data: By 15 January 2021, 16 480 school-obligation requests were received in combination with the Education Office and the specialised services. This is the year 2021. Last year, he came in around 22-25 thousand. I know this because they told me in a data request. This system has caused a rough level playing field. What happened? What happened was that parents with better interests could act and, with technical tools, asked for what was needed for their children, but others who didn't have the ability or the technology couldn't move. By the way, a lot of parents have stood up for their children through an ombudsman. I know this because I myself turned to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and he replied to me that he had initiated a comprehensive investigation at the request of dozens of parents. In six points, I would like to sum up what this investigation has established. One. The government announced the regulation very late. I quote: "The necessary conditions are available for all stakeholders, and this has not been assessed by the government. Ombudsperson Two. I quote:....there could have been a large number of parents with a lower level of advocacy, who could not or could not have lived in the first place with an application for exemption, while it would have been justified. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Three. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights also complained that the number of claimants was reduced by the fact that they did not have the necessary technological conditions. Four. He also criticized the fact that the parents did not or only received the opinion on request. As I have just indicated, I have been very concerned with this, and I have demonstrated the government's regular threat to the employees of the pedagogical services so that they don't give out any information at all. The situation has changed since then, and the Office is now automatically sending out the opinion together with the decision. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is how it should have worked from the beginning, not fighting close-ups, bringing the specialist services into terrible unpleasant situations. Five. The investigations have put a lot of pressure on the expert committees. This was also not handled by the government. Six. They made flexible rules. This means that the application had to be submitted in January, and says the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, I quote:, in the child's condition, there may be a fact or circumstance which, in accordance with the best interests of the child, may delay the obligation of the school after the submission of the application in January. You can't apply for a stay later than that. This will also be relevant in the context of the current law. And yes, the Constitutional Court has also said similar things in its recent decision, which was found to be a failure to comply with the new regime. So we managed to get AB to say what we ourselves said that this regulation was not constitutional. Well, if there was a fair government here, which I didn't, and I really wanted to look at the interests of the children, which I don't, because you're just following your own ideas blindly, then this bill wouldn't look like that. For example, what the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has noticed, and what the Constitutional Court has also said, is that the child can change, these are crucial months, and we cannot handle it with this law, it is now worth three days with you. Therefore, in this proposal, it is proposed to amend the deferment of the school obligation from 15 January to 18 January. So you get three extra days on the move, which is not in the best interest of the children. So it's cosmetic, it's not a real time frame that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights thought about, and I think about it myself, and everyone who's ever seen a child. All in all, what I see as the biggest problem is that, despite the fact that the applications themselves have contradicted your prejudices, saying that here they artificially increase the kindergartens and hold back the children, 96 percent of the applications were passed through the Education Office as the parents asked. So you shouldn't have gotten into the system like this in Hungarian, you could have trusted the kindergarten educators. I think it's very important that they have this decision back in their hands. They are with children every day, sometimes they are with children more than their own parents because of work obligations, very well-known to the child, very fond of children. I just don't understand how you can take a decision like that out of their hands and give it to someone else completely, an office that has never seen that child before, and find out from different papers. Therefore, kindergarten educators are still not appreciated for giving an opinion on this, but this particular child protection authority has been installed. What I see as the biggest problem here is that I think that it is being brought in because of equal opportunities problems, but there is only a part of the children in the eyes of the child protection authority, and in my experience, the child protection authorities are also quite overwhelmed. So my question remains why an authority is more competent for a child than a kindergarten educator who deals with them. If the kindergarten needs to notify child protection, it's an extra administration, time, which will impair efficiency. It would be much easier if this question were decided where the child is. [[14.50]] There is still a problem reported by the Ombudsman that there is a large number of school-age examinations in pre-occupied specialised services, 53 percent of the cases, and therefore their other responsibilities must be put in the background. So the reschedule, the associated ferociousness, can again result in an infringement for children. I would really like to emphasise why kindergartens do not have a meaningful say in this process. The parent, the child and the kindergarten educator are a unit, they see what's happening. Why do we have to bring in 60 more players here, why did we really have to go to the Constitutional Court with such a bad law, instead of taking themselves and consulting those involved in advance, asking for their opinion, and carefully putting in place a regulation that is in the best interests of children? I honestly don't understand why you guys did this to the kids. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, because no one has ever told me this before. I have listened to the speech now, but I do not understand why this was necessary, there is nothing convincing about what they are saying. So I don't think this bill you brought in is right. It's a cosmetic work, something they want to do, because the Constitutional Court has condemned you, but again, they're not looking at the child, they're seeing the legislation and the papers again. They do not understand that decisions should be made where children are, where expertise is available. We do not need corrections, we need a complete rethink of the system. There's no shame in saying that it didn't work out or we didn't want to do that, so let's give it back to the kindergarten educators, it was better that way. There's no shame in saying that. Admitting one mistake when it comes to so many children, I think it's more important to have a government virtue than to start welding such legislation. If I look at this situation from a distance, I think we should start from what would be ideal in the long term at least on this side of the horseshoe, because we have not found a partner in this endeavour to build a school system and a children's education and child development system in this country that is capable of dealing with the developmental differences between children, which knows that every child is a small universe with thousands of peculiarities, and in which we can put a properly paid workforce in a line of battle, that of these children, many of them, everyone can find their calculation in the world when he grows up. Not to melt them into a jar, I don't know, into a world of great averages, but to appreciate and help children in their diversity. This requires a lot of individual attention, differentiated development, age-appropriate learning methods with a wide range of professionals. That's what I see as a parent. I'm not a teacher, I'm not a kindergarten educator, but I've been informed about this issue, and I've talked to a lot of voters, specialized and kindergarten educators about this particular situation and otherwise. I can see that Hungary will be the way our children are now in a few years' time and the opportunities given to the people who deal with them. I am deeply saddened that Fidesz and KDNP do not allow kindergarten educators to help these children to go to school, gradually, according to their age characteristics, as is best for these children. In short, that's how I see this law. I'm very honored to have you all over me. I ask you, honourable government representatives, to admit that you are wrong and to make a system that is good for children. Thank you.
u2021-04-08-95	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Antal Paulik, a Slovak ethnic advocate, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translate them into Hungarian. Mr. Speaker, please.
u2021-04-08-96	-akujem za slovo pán predseda! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pan predseda! Vážené panie poslankyne the Panic Poslanc! Vážený pán štátny tajomník! Vo svojom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností v Ma.arsku k návrhu zákona číslo T/15708 o modifikácii niektorých zákonov súvisiacich s verejným školstvom. Výbor predložený návrh prerokoval na svojom zasadnutí siedmeho apríla. Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear Secretary of State, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary of the National Assembly is the 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution 32. § 2 of the Act on the amendment of laws concerning public education was discussed in a detailed debate. In my speech, I would like to present to you the committee's position on the draft law. The Commission discussed the proposal before us at its meeting on 7 April, and participated in the meeting on behalf of the Ministry of National Human Resources, Dr. Madarasz Hedvig, Head of the Public Education Administration Department. From a ethnic point of view, it can be said that public education is a key area for the survival, language and culture of nationalities. The nationality that cannot recreate itself, its intellectuality, the community that uses an educated language version of nationality in the system of public education, gradually loses the most important part of its identity, perhaps its mother tongue. This can be slightly helped by the mother tongue culture of nationality, the transcribing of the dialectal expressions of traditions, but with the archaic language version from there, none of the communities are able to meet the linguistic challenges of modern life. This is why the national self-governments of all nationalities are accompanying it, as the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is following in particular any changes in the legal background of national public education. The fundamental law on the rights of ethnic communities in Hungary, CLXXIX in 2011. In addition to the requirements for national authorities, Act No. 3 deals with the rights of public education in the most detail. It details, both in the context of individual and Community nationality rights, the entitlements which allow those who so require to participate in public education in the language of nationality and nationality. Article 19 of the Act In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of the Treaty, the minority communities have the right to pre-school education, primary education, the provision of ethnic college services, the education and training of secondary schools, vocational schools and vocational schools, and higher education. Hungary's legislation ensures the conditions for the operation of the nationality public and higher education system, from the provision of infrastructure needs to the training of teachers. It is also included in the nationality law that the requirement that the provision of national education textbooks is a state task. Following the initiative of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the government launched a scholarship programme to promote and extend the training of ethnic teachers. This has led to an increase in the number of national educators, which is an essential condition for further satisfactory functioning of public education. The stability of the financial framework has made it possible to maintain local and national minority self-government institutions over recent years. The number of kindergartens and schools operating in the maintenance of minority self-governments is increasing year after year. Today, ethnic maintainers and the institutions they maintain have become inevitable actors in public education. The State will help them to operate and improve their operating conditions with priority grants. An important result in cooperation between the Government, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and the national governments of nationalities is that, when preparing for changes in the legal background of public education, if the planned changes directly affect the system of ethnic education, discussions will take place during the development. As a result, we can predict possible violations of rights to nationality public education and of national interests, as well as the possibility to formulate and incorporate national interests in the draft of current amendments. There was no need for such consultation in the case of the legislation before us now, given that the changes made in the draft only apply to the actors of nationality public education to the extent that they concern all actors operating in the public education system. A significant part of the proposed amendments to the Public Education Act is text-pointing and the transfer of changes to the specific legislation on vocational training. At the same time, we are also faced with changes in the proposal that are really forced by life, such as the clarification of the concept of a child, student, who is undergoing permanent care, or the possibility of acute care in educational or multi-purpose institutions of an increasing number of diabetic pupils in public education institutions. However, we believe that there is no doubt about the need to provide such a patient, children in attendance education, in a public education institution, and we also consider it important that the draft also provides for the possibility of paying staff who acquire the necessary knowledge. In several places, the draft clarifies certain aspects of the kindergarten relationship. These changes, also imposed by life, affect the financing of kindergartens for the children of parents who stay abroad, or the preschool admission and take-over obligation. We agree with the precise nature and objectives of these provisions. [[15.00]] From a national point of view, one of the most important elements of the amendment package before us is the definition of textbook provision as a public task and the designation of the body responsible for textbook development. Ethnic textbooks are now largely the responsibility of a publisher, which also participates in the delivery of textbooks as a provider. Hopefully, this organisational change will solve problems related to the late delivery of special ethnic textbooks in previous years. In the light of previous discussions on the rules of procedure relating to the initiation of the obligation to study and the experience gained in recent years, the rapporteur proposes amendments. They are expected to contribute to making a change in the date of school start possible in duly justified cases. In several cases, the draft provides for additional tasks for the Education Office. In addition to the above mentioned textbook development, the teacher's qualification expert has selected the registration of one day per week of experts, or the registration of data related to the obligation to attend a kindergarten abroad and the obligation to teach abroad. Let us hope that the Education Office will be able to perform these new tasks in a reassuring manner. Dear House, As I said at the beginning of my speech, the draft legislation under discussion does not contain proposals for amendments which directly affect nationalities in this capacity. At the same time, it can be seen from what has been said that there cannot be indifferent to the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary any change in legislation that affects the system of public education and public education in Hungary in any context. On the basis of the opinions already expressed at the committee meeting on 7 April, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposes the adoption of the bill that is the subject of this debate. .akujem Vám za posornosť! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2021-04-08-97	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Now I'm gonna tell you how it's gonna be. In the first two-minute round, several speakers came forward, two Members who then announced the speaker, Mr Csányi, from Jobbik, and then the speaker who asked for a normal word again, Mrs Mónika Dunai. Now it's two minutes. First, the representative of KDNP, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, may speak for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-98	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél said that I should press the button calmly and that it is not possible to argue with her, because at this time she is going out of the room when she has said what she has to say, and it would be good to debate important issues. She began her speech on a completely inappropriate subject, Minister Katalin Novák commented on her Facebook posts on population policy. Of course, the Member did not write a word about the positive news in the difficult situation that Hungarian birth figures and fertility rates have been better than the average of the European Union for the second year, which is joyful. I thought everyone was happy about this, but not Bernadett Wind, because he can only criticize that. He was the programme manager of the organization where the head of the organization said that immigrants are better than the domestic population, so what can we expect from the congresswoman after all. On the subject, however, we did not hear any answer from the Secretary of State Arató, who said that the textbook supply was a tragedy or disaster, perhaps as the Member said, how it was possible for Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partner to privatise the National Book Publisher, much cheaper than most of the offers received, and then his friends of principle took out 14.5 billion dividends, while Hungarian families had to pay HUF 30,000 a year for the textbook package. How do you think, honourable former Secretary of State, during whose time all this has happened, that you will then criticize the current free textbook supply and the textbook market for all children, after the damage to the Hungarian families at that time and have conducted a school and kindergarten closure policy? We have heard little of this from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-99	Thank you very much. I ask for the understanding of Mrs Mónika Dunai, because, in the meantime, a opposition representative has applied for two minutes, and the house rules say that a pro-government, an opposition, is coming after you. Congressman Harvester in two minutes, DK.
u2021-04-08-100	I am a little sorry that the kind of professional approach that marked today only lasted until Congressman Nacsa's comment, but of course I have to say how should I say it? You don't know the basic facts. First of all, I didn't say anything about textbooks today. I have something to say about him, but I didn't say anything about him. The second fundamental fact that you do not understand for a Member of Parliament is that Parliament does not have a genre when it is possible to ask opposition representatives. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Why can't we ask?]] Wait, Congressman, for next May, we hope that there will be a way to ask questions to the representatives of the current opposition, and then we will be happy to answer them from a government position. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's democracy, how can you not ask questions?]]
u2021-04-08-101	Now, the thing is, this is a parliament that's worth pressing, and I'll give you the floor, but mostly I'll think about it, and then they'll talk to each other. This conversation is now being continued by Congresswoman Mónika Dunai from Fidesz for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-102	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in Parliament, you can ask questions, you can argue. In fact, we're here to conflict our opinions with each other. It is also obvious that we can ask each other, because my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, may be interested in what the opposition on the left thinks on certain issues. In my two-minute comment myself, I would like to continue what Lőrinc Nacsa started, and I would also like to do what my fellow Member Bernadett Szél will probably be able to listen to from the monitor or look at it afterwards. She made such serious allegations about the current Facebook entry by Minister Katalin Novák, which cannot be left out, and it is also worth clarifying here. I will begin this in my two-minute speech, and since I will soon be next in my normal speech, so as soon as Mr President gives me the floor, I will continue. I am also pleased that Mrs Bernadett Szél has brought up two of her Facebook entries today, because it gives us the opportunity to talk about the two very important topics here, within the walls of the House that she has formulated. In fact, what he said was that there is a difference between Hungarian children and Hungarian children, I cannot read it from any of his Facebook entries today. It is about one of the talented young Roma who, thanks to the program of the Hungarian National Talent, can develop their knowledge and enter a career that is necessary to develop their talent. I see, Mr President, my time is up, and I'll be right back in the normal speech. Thank you.
u2021-04-08-103	Thank you so much for the restraint. Thus, as the speaker announced after the two-minute round, Mr Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, will follow. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to express my thanks to my former teaching colleagues, just as Congressman Nacsa did in his speech, as teachers are fighting in the front line at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, despite the fact that digital education is still in place at the moment. If I may, I would like to come back to this at the end of my speech. Thank you, thanks to them, and we wish you endurance in your work, and we encourage you to do so as soon as possible by those who have not yet taken the vaccine. In his exposé, the Secretary of State raised the main motif of the Constitutional Court's concerns about the obligation to attend kindergartens and schools, and said that everything was actually okay, there is hardly anything to see about it, because the law is in fact completely in line with everything. Only then is the question of why this is necessary, so why is this coming before us now? Then, listening to the comments of the opposition fellow Members, we could see that there are, indeed, serious concerns about this, so it was no accident that it came to us, even if there was a slight attempt by the Secretary of State to remove this question a little bit. As my fellow Member from the Danube has indicated, it is possible and necessary to ask questions here in Parliament, and I would also like to ask questions to the Secretary of State, as he said in his exposé that this bill is aimed at more efficient operation, and there are also a number of changes that I do not want to reflect on now, because it has been given the opportunity to do so. I suppose in the end, Mr. Secretary of State will try to answer all these questions. [[15.10]] Allow me to make some comments and ask questions about the Defence Colleges. We believe that, overall, this part of the package of legislative amendments can be considered to be of virtual concern. I would like to make two comments on this overall. One of them is very interesting: according to the law, the provision on the number of classes and groups will not have to be applied in these institutions. This means that there is no lower limit for classes and groups. I've been thinking about the possibility of giving an absurdum to a student and a teacher in these institutions, because that's the bottom of the bottom line, maybe we can't really imagine a zero student, but anything can happen. And it also occurs to us that, in the meantime, the classes of 30 people are not uncommon in the state-owned institutions, where, in fact, it is very much in the direction of getting more students into one class, one study group, and thus a heavy load for the particular teacher, the teacher, and I would see it as an example to follow that we should also provide some room for manoeuvre in schools, and that we could even lower the conditions for the lower limit. Although I know that this legislative proposal is not intended to amend the whole system right now, let us at least give it a voice once in a while. The other point, which is very interesting in relation to the Defence Colleges, is that the Minister responsible for defence can appoint the head of the institution in these institutions, for example, by means of a decree. You know, Secretary of State, that's always a concern when they lecture on a body from above, a community leader who doesn't accept it either in this community or as a paratrooper. I understand that there may be, or even necessary, regulations in a defence institution, but I consider this to be worth considering so that the staff of the institution, the faculty, have a say in the election of the head of the institution. In this way, we can eliminate a collision zone, a situation that can lead to conflict and create a bad mood within a community. Secretary of State, it's a shame, it's not a shame, I've been trying to find out how many of these institutions we're dealing with. I'll tell you frankly, I haven't found anything that the Ministry of Defence is keeping up, but I'm asking you to be kind enough to shed light on the number of institutions involved in this issue. And here it is like reading about future foundings between these lines: how much are they planning to establish by means of the defence wallet, and for what purpose would they want to operate them? I would be happy if we could talk about this for a few sentences. I would like to say a few more words about free textbooks. Saving, undisturbed, safe, these words were used by the Secretary of State; I add as a practicing educator, who taught 20 years, that in return these textbooks have many problems. We have heard the victory report of our fellow Member Lőrinc Nacsa on the 1.2 million students who received the free textbook. It needs to be added here because it may not be possible for everyone to receive this textbook free of charge, but rather to borrow or use this textbook for children. In any case, it is a very important result. The problem we see is that this textbook market becomes practically uniform, practically all students have the same textbooks, there is no teacher's freedom in the field of textbook selection, and the student's rights are undermined by the fact that only a certain textbook is available. True, however, it also has serious content problems, at least as I recall. Let's hope they've been eliminated since then. I don't think it's right, it can disturb students, it can disturb students, so I would also encourage you to open the textbook market, I think it's absolutely necessary to offer an option, it's definitely a sense of freedom for people. Let's be a little more open to them. Our fellow Member Nacsa, who just mentioned that our fellow Member Bernadett Szél is not in, is not in, but I wanted to respond to him, but I will tell you that he has made privatisation a problem here. What he said is, of course, wrong and reprehensible, if so, but we are now seeing very hard nationalisation and centralization in this area. I do not consider any of these to be correct, as I have just explained with regard to the textbook market, and I am particularly concerned that the government will designate the economic body responsible for publishing the book in a regulation, because it will put an economic operator, who is, say, close to NER, in a position of concern. Perhaps you can shed some light on this, Mr. Secretary, on who it might be? Allow me, at the end of my speech, to address two non-organic subjects. There is much in this salad law, but there is certainly not one thing, which is a painful sense of absence for all teachers and educators. This is finally the settlement of teachers' wages, as we have said many times before, allow me, Mr Secretary, to say here that the screening fund has not changed in practice since 2015, so to speak, it is frozen. According to the 2014 minimum wage, teachers receive their salary, which was HUF 101 500 at the time, today in 2021 it is HUF 167 400/month, which is otherwise very good and commendable. Teachers would look forward to it, and public education workers would look forward to finally matching the screening fund with this minimum wage. This could make this profession attractive, and it would also provide financial respect to teachers, teachers, which, I believe, is essential for future generations of colleagues and social groups, we probably agree with you on that. This is what I ask you to do, to work on this resistance, and to bring before this House as soon as possible a law that will settle this wage shortage for the teachers' colleagues. And on another very important, unfortunately topical thing: at the end of my speech, allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to make practically a request to you. On 19 April, the Hungarian government and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán are planning to open schools, while we have just heard from our fellow Member Nacsa that practically the protection of teachers has not been established, could not have developed, not everyone received the vaccine, not everyone has received two, if necessary. Mr. Secretary, can you guarantee that after the opening, the teachers will not be infected? Are you willing to say, here you have a responsibility to say that on the 19th, all teachers who have already received a vaccine have the courage to go to work? Or do all students feel free to go to the institutions because they won't catch the coronal virus? Can you say that responsibly in this place? Obviously not, and I don't think I do either. To this end, I would ask you to reconsider your position on opening, and if you would like schools opened on 19 April, you should think of a solution, either in group divisions or in daily rotations, or in square meters, as you are in shops, to release both students and students with a condition such as to release both students and students. I think it's a very big mistake and very irresponsible. I would ask the Secretary of State to do everything in his power to ensure the safety of students and teachers. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-08-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have the opportunity to hear the speech of a representative asking for a normal word: Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz. Here.
u2021-04-08-106	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I said in my two-minute comment that I responded to Minister Katalin Novák and, fortunately, Minister Bernadett Szél, who wrote today's Facebook entries. [[15.20]] One of her posts was to commemorate the talented Roma youth on the international Roma day and to report on how and how many talented Roma young people can catch up and develop their talents in the National Talent Programme. There was nothing in this that my colleague, Bernadett Szél, outlined that there was a difference between a child and a child, a Hungarian child and a non-Hungarian child. In your other post, and I am pleased that this can also be discussed here in the House walls, and I can even quote what has been said there, because you have reported very important statistics, Madam Secretary, which described Eurostat's latest survey. I would like to tell my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett, what Eurostat is writing about himself now, even in his absence. Eurostat is the EU statistical office. Eurostat is the statistical office of the European Union. We know that, but what else does it say about quality? It provides quality statistics and indicators at European level to compare countries and regions. Dear colleague, Mr Bernadett Szél, Ladies and gentlemen, We are therefore talking about statistics produced by the European Union on the basis of statistical measurements by the European Union, on the basis of their criteria, on the basis of the need for scientific knowledge, at least in the way Eurostat boasts itself, and I think that my fellow Member, if not by someone, should not doubt the institutions of the European Union, so he should not doubt Eurostat. But the point is, if you have already raised the figures of Eurostat, the figures of Hungary, it is worth mentioning here, which is also highlighted by the Minister. I quote:. While Hungarian fertility data have improved in line with the government's family-friendly measures since 2011, the EU average has been deteriorating for years. The latest analyses by Eurostat are available. Today, Hungary has moved from the hive to the middle of the EU. In fact, Hungarian fertility figures have been better than the EU average for the second year. In addition, where fertility is high in Western Europe, this is largely caused not by the reproductive rate of the native population, but by the high number of children born from mothers from other countries. .. Eurostat survey, please. In some countries of Western Europe, one in three has immigrant roots. - Eurostat, which is highlighted by the Minister. In the meantime, only 5 percent of births from mothers born in another country are born in Hungary. It is important to note that Eurostat also notes those mothers of Hungarian nationality who have seen the light of day beyond our borders, but then gave birth to children of Hungarian nationality settled in our home. Family-friendly government measures are therefore confirmed by Eurostat statistics. The latest Eurostat demographic data will be shown in images..., and will be followed in today's entry by the Minister of Graph. Well, there is nothing in this, too, that would make any difference between children and children born and living in Hungary and born abroad, but living in Hungary or in any way between children and children. This is about the fact that from the data of a survey conducted by the European Union, the results of which we cannot be happy, of course, as we are always able to achieve better results, so that more children can be born and we can give more help to families raising children, but of course not only to them, but also to pensioners and those who are still ahead of raising children and starting a family. But I think that we do not have to put our heads in the sand and be ashamed at all when these figures speak for themselves in the European context, and prove that, yes, the path that the Hungarian government has been pursuing since 2010 is right, and if we continue on this path, then it is absolutely certain that we Hungarians will remain; as opposed to other Western European countries, where their own governments and the European Union itself threaten that their own nation will survive in the future or not. Thank you very much for your attention and for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-107	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There is no further application for speeches, so it is my duty to ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No one is applying, so the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Secretary Maruzsa if he would like to reflect on what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State. Hello.
u2021-04-08-108	Thank you very much. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank Mr Mónika Dunai, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa and Mr Antal Paulik for their support and statement. I wish to respond longer to opposition comments, but only to those related to the bill. I am not a Member of Parliament, and so, although I always pay attention to the way in which, in the broader context of the debate on legislative proposals, Members find the opportunity to assess each other in a supportive way, yet I would refrain from doing so, and I would really only respond to comments on the bill. On behalf of Mr Róbert Dudás: thank you very much if you really agree with 90 percent of the bill, which you do not, I would like to reflect on. On the one hand, he said that the proposal would have been good if he had been in a meeting. I would like to confirm that they could not read anything else, this bill was discussed, and that we also take the kindergarten documents into account. This has also been said by the Member as to why we do not take it into account in the procedure. It could be submitted so far, and then the legal guarantee is laid down in the law that kindergarten documents can be submitted by parents and, of course, by elf, if the Board of Education does not act on the basis of the submitted parental application and the attached documents, when otherwise, in more than half of the procedures, it does not use the request of the pedagogical services, but it makes its own decision on the basis of the documents submitted. So we're not talking about a postman being the Education Department. Indeed, in most of the procedures, the submitted annex, without burdening the pedagogical services on the basis of documents, is already the subject of a decision, and one of the foundations of this is the kindergarten documents. It has also been said, and others, how the procedural deadlines have been modified. Several people have pointed out that the possibility of administration is changed from 15 to 18 and that this is limited. I would also like to point out that the Constitutional Court not only indicated that the procedure could start later, but also indicated that we should in any case draw up a guaranteed procedure to end the proceedings before the start of the school year; so let us not only look at the beginning but also at the end of it once again. In view of this, all procedural deadlines have been amended. Indeed, there is little time left for us to push the process towards summer, since the proceedings would not be completed. But perhaps this is also in line with the comments made by Mrs Bernadett Szél, because the aim is indeed to carry out the proceedings sometime during the spring, so the applications submitted in mid-January, the second half of January, until they are processed and evaluated, and the date reconciliation with the specialist service is carried out, these procedures need to be carried out, so the various administrative and judicial deadlines have been adapted accordingly. I would like to respond to Congressman Gyula Molnár's comment. There was also a broader vision of education policy. To tell you the truth, I do not feel at all that the school system that we created is not true, even the claim that children should enjoy themselves at school. There has never been an effort by the government, it has not been formulated, and we have not made decisions to make children feel bad at school, so there is no debate between us. [[15.30]] And when I hear such things as the unmoveable methods, the lexical knowledge, the dry knowledge that is characteristic of the Hungarian school system, I do not think so at all, and I suggest to the Member that the general introductory parts of the new national basic curriculum should be read through long pages on this matter. I think that this government document, the government regulation, makes clear the methodological diversity that must be our education policy in this area. I would also like to mention a little bit, when the gentleman representing the government's family friendship and the pressure of children in kindergarten brought it up as a contrast, I think that this is not the case at all, not the opposite. The obligation to attend kindergarten is four hours a day, so after doing mathematics, there are still 20 hours left for the child to spend in the family. So since the age of three, by law, the obligation to visit kindergartens is in force, I think I told you in the expoze about the usefulness of this, the effectiveness of this, the data that clearly shows that there is a close link between the time spent in kindergarten, the effectiveness of pre-school training and the future learning success. This is what motivates the government, and I believe that this is not contrary to the fact that the government, in a way welcomed by the Member, has been following and taking a family-friendly policy and a mass of measures over the past period. In Mr Gergely Arató's speech, I thank him in particular for his comment on the positive intention and the well-spoken amendments. I also thank you for being absolutely positive in the case of diabetes. I must add that what you have suggested to extend these measures not only to this circle, but also to a wider circle, is openness on the part of the government, but I would like to indicate that when this decision was made, the government was very precise about whether this could be understood and interpreted in a broader context. We didn't really find an area beyond that, since I'll tell you again, this has been investigated, where otherwise such and similar interventions could be done with good efficiency. Where more interventions are needed, pre-preparation of teachers is no longer sufficient, medical staff are needed where fewer are needed and there is a good chance that priority management of this type is not needed. But this will be decided by the future, and I think that we should put this into effect, accept the Parliament, develop the experience of the operation in this regard, and not shut down from this amendment on the basis of the experience of the future. Several comments have been received on military colleges, and I would also like to say this to Mr Tamás Csányi, so let us note that for many years the same regulation has been part of the Public Education Act. There was no problem with that, no concern, no difficulty. When the separation of vocational training and public education took place, given that those few colleges were indeed some of the institutions that operated on this basis, they went into and out of the world of vocational training. Currently, it is a public educational institution and there is no institution registered in this way. But we know that, and that's why the Ministry of Defence contacted the Ministry of Human Resources, that it is possible to set up colleges in the future, and that's why we're putting them back into the law as mirror regulation in addition to the current text in the VET Act, if and if such institutions are established. I understand that the establishment of some of these colleges on the part of the HM is what is planned, but I cannot give a statement on the exact number of such colleges, not even because there have been no authorisation initiatives in this regard. I think that this will not cause or cause problems for the future. I would also like to see a response to the concerns or concerns of the appointment of a leader in such a defence college. Frankly, we are talking here about the need to appoint a leader to the head of a specially functioning institution maintained by HM. I think that if somewhere, then here, HM can decide what kind of leader would you like to appoint to the head of your own college in this institution. Obviously, it is a college where college teachers really have to choose this person, and I think we should leave that to HM quite calmly. Looking around on this issue, I don't see any big experts. Mr Gergely Arató also, in connection with the Constitutional Court's decision, I think that in his comment he may have been a little bit skeptical that the Government took the decisions of the Constitutional Court seriously. I can signal and report that his fear was unfounded, there was no need at all for the opposition to draft a bill. The Government acts according to Hungary's status as a rule of law, and, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, it has now introduced the amendment in this respect and necessary for the spring session, and we will make the correction requested by the Constitutional Court. I also think it was said here in the wording that what a failure this is for us, I do not see it that way. The opposition was defeated on this issue, as 56 of their representatives asked for the Constitutional Court to declare the unconstitutionality of the rules adopted, and this was clearly rejected by the Constitutional Court. This is what several points in the Constitutional Court's decision are about. He has indeed asked us for corrections, which we are willing to make, because this is the merit of the matter, I believe, that it does not affect him. I would even respond to Mr Tamás Csányi's suggestions on textbook provision in so far as he sees a specific professional problem and error in a textbook, I have always been available with an open e-mail address, which is true, of course, if any citizen, any educator, makes such a announcement. Many times, by the way, when they come out that God, for example, what is in this book, we look at, sometimes, textbooks that expired five or six years ago, and textbooks that have not been on the list for a long time. In many cases, they are not even public publications. So this is always suitable for some criticism on suitable surfaces in this area, but I have recently encountered very few of them. I'm sure there'll be more. There'll be no misunderstanding. Even now, the new textbook book came out on April 1, and there are over 2,500 textbooks in the world of vocational training and public education. So I wouldn't claim that this is a single-colored, uniform world without any choice. I know that there are a large number of experts working to prepare the best possible textbooks, and there has also been a very serious modernisation in this area in that we did come up with the smart textbooks, and we did come up with the fact that all textbooks are available and used in a free downloadable format, in pdf and in a format for different digital readers in the KRÉTA curriculum. I think these are very forward-looking developments. What does the designation in the regulation mean? In the field of textbook supply, the Education Office is currently designated by the government by decree as responsible for the development of textbooks, and is currently responsible for the distribution of textbooks and the delivery of textbooks. What is changing in this area, this has been widely published in the press, that the Hungarian state has purchased the Alföldi Nyomda, and for the future, if and if this is necessary, Alföldi Nyomda may be designated in a government decree to be the printing press responsible for the production of textbooks. That's completely rational, and I don't think that's gonna happen. Indeed, technical matters of this nature are, on the basis of legal authorisation, customary by the government, carried out in a government decree. I would like to respond to the comments of Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. When he came in and told me, I wrote myself down that I'm sorry he didn't listen to his expo, but that means he watched it on video. Then, as they say, thank you for your orientation. In his statement, he said that this whole procedure was a total mess, and I'd like to deny it, that maybe we were watching some other movie in this. Of course, every procedure, until it is complete, has at the very beginning open questions, experiences or the potential of IT systems, which, in the first year, let's say, are not necessarily matured in all respects, but I think that this year's procedure, for example, took place and took place at very serious speed and without any disruption. O.H.'s procedure is in order. I think that he may have received such positive feedback that, within a few hours of sending in the opening system on the morning of January 4th, the positive responses began to arrive in quite a number of cases, which also means a well-built IT system. [[15.40]] I would also like to point out, perhaps, that when we cry back a little bit, or when the congresswoman cries back on the system that was previously decided by the kindergarten teacher, I would also like to put the reverse of that on the balance here. It was not certain that it was okay for three thousand kindergartens to have three thousand ways of interpreting what school maturity was then and who should or should be held in kindergarten. We also find that perhaps some of the parents who did not take advantage of the opportunity to apply at all for their child to stay in kindergarten may not have felt this way in the past, but they just somehow persuaded the child to stay a year after all. I do not really want to take a position on this, and I think that the anomalies we experienced in this area were said two years ago. The fact that we have channeled this into a nationwide unified system, I think that it has at least as many advantages, even more advantages than its disadvantages, and we can also reason and argue that we are looking at the benefits of this. Unfortunately, when we claim that because the parent knows exactly everything, and that the parent must be entrusted with it, I also find that this is not always the case, and sometimes it is important that there should be guarantees of state procedures, state care, monitoring, say, compliance with the obligation to teach, where, indeed, if a parent does not send his child to kindergarten or send him to school, then the state has a responsibility, and it is important that we pay attention to this, we perceive this, and appropriate interventions take place. When we cry back old times, I think it is also worth paying attention to, say, what was the standard practice for a very long time in the beginning of kindergarten, I can say that even until the relevant amendment of the law. In a settlement, the notary, the municipality announced what the date of local enrollment, the deadline, and usually placed it on the website, posted it in a notice on the municipality's bulletin board, and, let's say, published it in the local newspaper, and then that was pretty much it. The person who left, enrolled, enrolled, and the notary was able to keep track of the population's significant movements and movements, who lives in the particular settlement, who appears or does not appear in the kindergarten. Moreover, if he did not go to the local kindergarten, but, let's say, as in the agglomeration or Budapest, for example, it is quite customary that the child does not necessarily go to the preschool in the district, then the follow-up of this could have had significant problems. This was due to the fact that, as far as the tens of thousands of children were concerned, the notary knew that he knew from any record at all, since he did not have access to this, that he went and where he went to the child's kindergarten. Since the Education Office has been monitoring the completion of pre-schools and compulsory education at school, in coordination with the BM address register, state databases and records at OH, we have seen all children accurately to perform, attend any institution, participate in education in their interests. Each child receives a central letter to the address in the registers at this time, during the spring, and the parent receives, as appropriate, that hello, this child should go to kindergarten this year. You'll be given the address in the records as to what the procedure is. If you don't want to start kindergarten, you can either go to the government office or sign up. I think it's a very serious IT support compared to the time when we used a pin to pin it on the local government's bulletin board when to enroll in kindergarten. These are not usually mentioned, but I think that in today's world it is very useful for the parent to receive the signal that what to do now, the preschool registration can be carried out at this time and thus, if you do not want to take your child, then that is what to do. And from then on, the Board of Education will be able to monitor that the child in question is indeed in his own interest, and again, he has started in kindergarten, and I repeat, he is required to attend preschool four hours a day, and from then until he is 16 years old, we will be able to track him in a single state register. Some opposition representatives can't imagine, or perhaps on the government side, what cases can be discovered sometimes, when the parent we think is sure he knows what's best for his child, doesn't transfer the child he sent from one school to another in a few months, because he thinks that, in fact, he is installing at home in the auto shop is a perfect educational task. I do not think that the State has any responsibility at this time, and these are the registration systems that we have built, in order not to have the notary's business to follow up on this, these systems can guarantee that the State can fulfil its responsibility in this area. So a very serious modernisation has taken place in parallel with the fact that the various critical points that the Constitutional Court has challenged are indeed being clarified and corrected by the present bill, and I think that we will be able to do an even better procedure in this area in the future. That is why I am asking you very much that the bill, which, once again, I think is good, is agreed by a number of opposition representatives on 90 percent, will be supported by the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit amendments on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCI on the care of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws follows. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/15704. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I welcome Mr Attila Fülöp, State Secretary, and give him the floor first, to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-08-110	[[The sound system doesn't work for a short time.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, if it is heard now. With the formation of the civil government in 2010, it took a swift and drastic decision to get our country out of the madness to which left-wing government, by the way. I quote: If there is a scandal, it is that today every third pensioner is disabled, and every second of the latter is still active, could work, or work could give meaning to his life. End of subpoena. The former sentence was the same from a socialist prime minister, because even Ferenc Gyurcsány considered the pension system scandalous. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: How you did it!]] But the real scandal is that they confessed, they should clean up, but they didn't. Only the Fidesz-KDNP government had the courage to put an end to this scandal. Here is another argument about the tragic state of the disability pension system. I quote:. Of course, I know that in the years after the change of regime, a lot of people have fled into invalid retirement, but in the long run, it is not possible for a society to have a perspective that if their health is slightly reduced, the only escape route is to go to a disability pension. This was also admitted by a left-wing politician, and as Minister of State for Social Affairs and Labour Lajos Korózs could have made order, but he didn't either. We owe it to socialist government that by 2012 Hungary had become almost one million disabled pensioners. They were the ones who tried to cover up the bankrupt economy by handing out disability pensions rather than work. The distortion of this form of supply is an old sin of the post-communist governments, since it started in the wrong direction already in the '60s, and then when the country got into trouble in the 2008 economic crisis, more people were lured into the dead end of the disability pension by the then government. In this situation, the civilian-national government decided to put an end to chaos and put in place decades of debt that led people not to the full of life but to vulnerability. Dear House, As of 1 January 2012, with the entry into force of the Law on the care of persons with disabilities and amendments to certain laws, there was a significant change in the supply system for persons with disabilities. The transformation served to create a uniform system based on complex ratings and operating on an insurance policy, taking into account medical, occupational and social aspects. [[15.50]] It should be noted that the need for conversion was recognised by the Constitutional Court by not finding the conversion itself contrary to the Fundamental Law, even though the constitutionality of the conversion of invalidity benefits has been examined on several occasions. Ab stated that the right to property enshrined in the Fundamental Law does not mean that an allowance previously established could not be reviewed later, as it was pointed out that if the situation of the person under investigation changes, the benefit could be adjusted accordingly. The transformation of health-related benefits from 1 January 2012 was intended to create a uniform and transparent system, in particular a system of employability, rather than cash benefits, aid, who is able to ensure the livelihood of himself and his family by means of a work income. Therefore, from 2012 onwards, based on the complex rating, if someone is not recommended for employment, they have disability benefits, and if someone is recommended for employability, they can be found to receive rehabilitation care. The medical condition of the complex rating is regulated by a ministerial decree from here on in parallel to the transformation. Overall, nearly 940,000 people were affected. The amount of the benefit was the same as the previous benefit for December 2011, plus the rate of the pension increase in January 12 and thus the recipients of the benefit at the time of the conversion carried on their previous benefits to the new scheme with a new name. The purpose of cash benefits is therefore not to keep rehabilitable beneficiaries passivity, but to return them to the labour market, which is based on the use of subsidised employment, tax and contribution benefits or other services. The next step in the transition between the old and the new system is the first review of recipients of converted care. At the end of 2011, they were called the III. Those who received a group disability pension and regular social benefits who had completed the retirement age only over five years could request an extraordinary complex rating within three months. It should also be pointed out that there were 4,000 of our countrymen who, by the way, had received disability pensions, but they did not ask for this option, i.e. they voluntarily gave up the benefit they had received. The aspects of health damage investigations have not changed significantly compared to the previous period, and previous professional directives have been brought to a legislative level. The most important change was that the aspects of qualification, taking into account the change in medicine, were defined at ministerial level, in a way that everyone can understand, in order to promote a uniform application at national level. The review was carried out by a committee consisting of a medical expert, an occupational rehabilitation expert and a social expert. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Dear House, During the transformation, there was a fundamental change of perspective. Before 2012, health damage was examined for the purpose of establishing all previous benefits as eligibility conditions, but there were no normative provisions for determining the extent of health damage, the system developed by the World Health Organisation and the guidelines based on it were taken into account in the qualification. As of 2012, health assessment was the basis for the complex qualification, and health damage assessment was not the basis for the complex qualification, and the medical guidelines of the qualification were supplemented with occupational rehabilitation and social rating aspects, as stated in the Ministerial Decree. The two new forms of care I mentioned replaced the previous six forms of care by disability and rehabilitation, thus simplifying the system. For decades, regular review has been an important element of the health-damaged, disabled people's care system, i.e. when determining invalidity pensions, the legislation included the possibility of reducing the review and, together with the loss of disability pensions. Thus, the Law on the care of persons with disabilities does not provide for a review without precedent and the possibility of a change in the amount of care. Dear House, I think it is important to clarify what is included in the Constitutional Court's decision of November 2018. As you are well aware, the Constitutional Court does not say that the provisions concerned are in breach of the Fundamental Law and that it does not say that it is illegal, but requests that it be replaced by a legislative task resulting from an international treaty. The Constitutional Court found that the Parliament had not established rules that would allow the amount of benefit to be taken into account when determining the amount of physical state improvement or the amount of invalidity pension established before 1 January 12. Ab did not propose a specific measure in its decision, but merely made a decision in principle. In view of the decision of the Constitutional Court in the subject matter, the Government decided to amend the amount of the benefits of persons who received invalidity, accident disability pensions on 31 December 2011 and, at the time of the restructuring of the care system, their retirement benefit was reduced as compared to the previous ones because they had improved. This affects almost 5,000 people with disabilities. The proposal. On the basis of the proposal, the Hungarian Treasury shall notify the parties concerned of a lump sum allowance and shall ensure payment of an allowance of HUF 500 000 if the data subject declares in advance that he has no further claim in connection with the reduction of the amount of supply. If the rightholder does not accept the allowance, the authority shall, upon application of a condition check, fix a new supply amount, which shall not be lower than the amount paid until 31 December 2011, if it cannot be demonstrated that it is improving physically and biologically. Data subjects will receive a lump sum payment, the amount of which is the amount of the difference between the new and the current benefit calculated pro rata time. The bill is therefore the Constitutional Court 21/2018. It has been determined on the basis of a legislative obligation laid down in Decision No 1/2005. Dear House, The Government is committed to the need and effectiveness of the 2012 restructuring of the supply system. The measures have made a significant contribution to increasing the employment level of people with disabilities. The fact that the direction is good demonstrates that the employment rate of people with disabilities with disabilities has been more than doubled by the civilian government, from 18% in 2010 to 44 percent now. Moreover, from this year on, we have abolished the income limit, i.e. the provision of workers with disabilities is no longer dependent on the amount of their earnings, and the positive impact of the decision is already felt by staff placement professionals at the beginning of the year. Instead of being sorry, we're building on equal opportunities, so we're not trying to create benefits, we're trying to create opportunities. Since 2010, this strategy has been in place, instead of aid, a work-based economy is being built in our country. The most important objective of the government's economic defence action plan is to protect jobs and create new ones. In the meantime, we will also strengthen cooperation between the market and the public sector in the social field, so that we can jointly prove that our fellow countrymen with changed working skills produce value. We want to continue and broaden the way we have been going since 2010. Today, almost 360,000 people of active age and working capacity live in Hungary. The measures taken in recent years together contributed to the fact that nearly 155 thousand people are currently working in this target group. [[16.00]] Dear House, A number of benefits and benefits are also helping people to work and to work. There are basically three forms of employment for people with disabilities: both in developing employment and in accredited firms in so-called protected employment and thirdly in the open labour market. The aim of the first mentioned development employment is to prepare an individual for self-employment or, if possible and possible, to find a job in the open labour market. On average, the employment of 6 000 people with disabilities was achieved with annual budget support of more than 6 billion forints per year for 200 developers. The protected employment for rehabilitation purposes referred to in the second group is provided to persons with disabilities who have difficulty in finding employment on the open labour market, who need protection. In 2021, in view of the epidemic situation, the source has been increased, so some 394 accredited companies from state resources will employ nearly 33 thousand people in the country at nearly 1100 sites. Employment in the open labour market is supported by a number of measures, such as a social contribution tax benefit for employers who employ workers with disabilities from 2012. In order to enforce this, the worker needed a so-called rehabilitation card, which has been in operation since January 19 in connection with the validation of the simplified tax procedure. Secondly, employment is indirectly encouraged by the obligation to pay a rehabilitation contribution. The employer is obliged to do so if the number of employees exceeds 25 and the number of employees in mmk is less than 5 per cent. The employer who fulfils this quota shall be exempt from payment. From 2021 onwards, there has been a significant change in the number of mentors employed by the employer and young people with special educational needs and students with disabilities who are out of higher education. Dear House, Employment in mmk is not a charity, but a professional responsibility, an economic decision and a social mission at the same time. At the beginning of last year, we launched the value you are! We have programmed the experience of international companies and domestic businesses into the program. They claim that in a workplace, employers are more satisfied with their employees than with other workers. The aim of the programme is to draw the attention of society to the values of people with disabilities who have changed their skills. They represent value not only in work but also in everyday life, in common thinking. When the government transformed the support system for people with changed abilities, it was based on the fact that anyone who wanted to be able to work can work, broken down by the formation in the heads, according to which the changed ability denotes the loss of ability, the inability to produce value. For most people, working is the basis for living, a means of sustaining life, figuratively speaking, a web of the strongest yarn of social security. In the case of our fellow countrymen with changed skills, not only livelihoods, but basic self-esteem, social acceptance, the embodiment of a sense of belonging to a society, a nation, its pledge is the place where he gets a job, and the employer who trusts him. With the adoption of the proposal, we not only settle the request of the Constitutional Court in a reassuring manner and close the transformation that started years ago, but also take another step on the path where we are not creating vulnerable masses, but also strengthening families living on the income of work in their self-esteem. 'Cause instead of a million people in disability, we believe in the honor of work, the opportunity and the ability to function. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for listening. Please support the proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-111	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I welcome once again my fellow Members. Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-112	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm from Géberjén, I was here from 2000 to 2010 mayor, and I'm about to find out why I'm saying this in this law. It is not boastful, but this is the time when the special thing arose that, under social law, the establishment of a day institution for people with disabilities in settlements of over 10 thousand people has to be established. Developing employment is one of the types of legislation that we are discussing, especially employment for people with disabilities, preparing for different levels of employment, whether rehabilitation or the use of open labour market opportunities. Today, this association-based employer operates on four sites with 250 clients, with 40 full-time colleagues organizing the employment of accredited employers in institutional relations. I think that when, under my leadership, this team has written a professional programme that has shown that rural people have the opportunity to catch up, whether they have a disability or a disability, they must be given the opportunity by the state to improve their quality of life. I would like to mention here that a lot of people have been growling from disability pensions to subsidised employment, not having a good time. Indeed, the fall in salaries or the fall in pensions and contributions caused very high tensions. However, I think that, overall, it has gone in the right direction, because the government has standardised pensions to ensure that people of old age, pensioners and anyone else who lives in health or disability are also granted some kind of contribution through the application of that law. So I think that the people of rural areas, as it is my job to represent rural people in this House in the first place, are making good use of this opportunity. This may also be an example or confirmation that the so-called "State Exodus Programme" initiated by the European Union could be a co-operating partner of this civil society organisation to provide people with so-called 24-hour continuous care in a supported housing form, let's call it home evasive to an organisation who already has experience in organising day-to-day occupation. I'm reporting that we have complied with this accreditation. Allow me to use this expression, because there, in that small village, in a small village where I live, is a great thing, and everyone regards this institution as their own, this opportunity, this kind of desire to do it. As the Secretary of State said, this year, accredited organisations working on the employment of these people will receive HUF 48 billion of HUF 600 million, which will organise their lives, as they will be subject to the same employment in the labour law, pay in employment of 2, 4, 6 or even 8 hours, which is normal living, in the world of normal workers, and is also subject to an increase in the minimum wage. So these compensations are also taken care of by the government, because among these people, too, the principle of paying for their work is worthy, I think that it will be fully exploited, and that the hundreds of accredited companies that the Secretary of State has spoken about will legally operate it, taking advantage of the opportunities provided by the law. [[16.10]] Back to the 2011 amendment of the law, when I talk about a complex review, let me clarify what the employment review means. If a man's leg is amputated because of an accident, and that man was a driver, then he's a 100 percent invalid in terms of the amount of damage to his health, because he can't continue the occupation that he's dependent on his family to do. But it's the same person that if you're an economist and you work in an office building that's completely barrier-free, I think we're not talking about damage to health because you're not using your feet for direct work, you're doing your head, and you're doing mental work, and I'm telling you once again, with the possibility of complex accessibility. This is important because, in the institutional context of these people, it is a very important task to pay attention to the extent of their disability or health damage and to develop the environment. This is important because the kind of complexity that only examined the health condition in the case of the old disabled pensioner, as the Secretary of State said, the extent of the health damage is not, moreover, the healthy existence of the residual value, the ability to deal with it, the introduction of the employment approach already mentioned, and the social situation in which we are also looking at the family situation, in terms of the number of children to be cared for, the environment they live in, the social disadvantage they live in. This is the meaning of the complex review, which, in the words of the Secretary of State, presents the goodness of the direction, the qualitative change in the transformation of the system. So summa summarum, I think the government started in the right direction in 2011. The Constitutional Court established an event in the course of the investigation which must now be replaced, which is the essence of this amendment to the law, that his earnings will be reduced due to the degree of health damage and health improvement. If you have decreased compared to the state of December 2011 and 1 January 2012, you will now compensate for this. There are two types: if the Treasury and the client can reach an agreement, this can be settled by a one-off HUF 500,000 after a written statement that they do not request further review of this case by the client; the other, when they ask for a complex review and find that there has been a reduction in earnings due to the quality of health damage or improvement, and now compensates for it retroactively. I think that the government is trying to solve the deficit of the Constitutional Court resolution, and I think that people will understand that. Anyone who thinks he wants his review, and who thinks he wants his HUF 500,000 and that kind of constitutional failure, legal failure, will be checked by the government. On behalf of the faction, I can assure you of our support to the Secretary of State and the Government. We understand, we know, and we want to support this amendment. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2021-04-08-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We do not agree on a number of points on this subject, but I think that this is not necessarily a problem. It is more important now that we clash our arguments, our arguments, and I trust that this will be heard, by the way. What we agree on on this subject... But, in a prerogative, forgive me, may I say that as Secretary of State, you have made much more political contributions in your exposé than you would have done from a professional point of view. I'm sorry, but I have to say that as Secretary of State, I would have expected professionalism much more, and I think it would have been expected. The fact that they're pointing back, obviously, well, we're used to that, they're pointing back at the government before 2010, in which case it's a little difficult. Obviously, I understand, and I'm going to come to that, obviously, but it's a little difficult because you made the decision. So from now on, obviously, I'll say it again, you can point it back, but that just proves your own certificate, you explain, because that decision was made by you. You said you had the courage, but with the government before 2010, you had the courage to take this step. On the one hand, I agree, and I can even confirm to the maximum that when the number of people with one million addresses in Hungary has approached the number of people with this address, it is a unsustainable situation and, most likely, it is not even a real situation. But that doesn't mean, and it doesn't mean that they draw a line in violation of the law, constitutionally, and otherwise destroy people, families, existentials, not one, two, eight, ten, but ten in the order of ten thousand or even 100,000. He said, Mr State Secretary, that the Constitutional Court did not consider this to be unconstitutional, merely contrary to international treaties. In my reading, there is exactly the opposite. He declared certain sections of this to be constitutionally offensive, no matter how much the Secretary of State shakes his head, but there have been special opinions from some constitutional judges who have declared this to be contrary to an international treaty. So, what happened? In 2012, hundreds of thousands of disabled persons with disability benefits ceased to be insured, i.e. overnight. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] I would be very pleased, by the way, if Congressman Nacsa wouldn't mind yelling at each other, and I honored the other side and listened to it. It doesn't bother me anyway, I'm used to it, we're used to it from you, but I wanted to give you a signal. So hundreds of thousands of people have lost their families their livelihood, their future planning and their existence. They were also lost and otherwise required to be subject to annual review, such as by persons who had undergone amputation, who had to go back to the doctor year after year to see if there had been any improvement in their condition. Well, unfortunately, no, I'm afraid not. And now, the aim of this bill is that, since several procedures have demonstrated that these persons may otherwise have a right to claim their loss of wages and benefits retroactively, to replace the lost part of their disability pension so that they would now rather satisfy these persons by a sum, their needs, so that they do not otherwise claim a much higher amount. I think that this is unworthy of these people, it is unworthy that I would like them to be bought with a sum of money, we can safely say that we should buy them, and I can even say that we should deceive them, because if they were to carry out the necessary procedure, they would be given a multiple of this. The reason why they would get it is very simple, my fellow Member Kovács, because they deserve it, because this government took it away from them in 2012. And then let me conclude with what has been said from the pro-government side, and it may well show the essence of this whole concept: amputation of an economist's leg is not considered to be a damage to health. Well, congratulations. [[Sándor Kovács: From an employment rehabilitation point of view, sir, let's add.]]
u2021-04-08-115	Thank you very much, fellow Members. Then, in the two-minute framework, everyone will have the opportunity to continue the debate. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is now Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-116	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We did not talk to Mr Secretary of State, but I was also prepared with the quote by Commission President Korózs, because he said earlier that, of course, I know that in the years after the change of regime, a lot of people have fled into invalid retirement, but in the long run, there can be no perspective for a society that if there are fluctuations in the labour market, or because it is not possible to convert its knowledge, or because its health condition has decreased somewhat, the only escape route is that we are going to the disability pension. Unfortunately, in the 1970s, this was done by workers in England, and the English also realized that this was not a good direction. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So in the 1970s, the British realized that Lajos Korózs was a social secretary, and as Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány let this situation escalate, when they knew exactly what the problem was in this system, they knew exactly how to handle and solve this system, but it was more important to privatise 192 state companies and to fill their buddies' pockets than to solve real problems, to deal with it, and to actually try to clean up in the social field. [[16.20]] So it was a huge debt to the Gyurcsány government, who admitted, knew about it, and didn't try to correct it. With the transformation of the supply system for persons with disabilities introduced in 2012, the entry into force of the law on the benefits of persons with disabilities and the amendment of certain laws, a uniform system of insurance based on complex ratings, taking into account medical, occupational and social aspects, was established from the former diverse care system. We Christian democrats are committed to improving the situation, quality of life and labour market opportunities of our fellow countrymen with disabilities. We are convinced that our disabled fellow workers are just as valuable and important to society as healthy and healthy people. For example, last year we discussed and accepted the National Assembly, because the Fidesz government has already done a lot to improve the living conditions of people with changed working capacity, the amendment of the Hungarian sign language law is similarly positive or today accessibility has become general, and these projects have started in many places and have even been completed. In order to ensure that people with disabilities do not become excluded from society, there is a great need for their acceptance and support from the majority society. In this acceptance and integration and reintegration, it is important that our fellow countrymen with changed working skills can also work, compared to their opportunities and abilities, as many of them participate in the world of work as possible, as their work is a value-making work. As is true for the majority of society, so is it true for people with changed working skills: if there is work, there is everything. About 43.5 percent of the 360,000 people living in Hungary with disabilities, 155 thousand people, are employed, which is a significant expansion: in 2011 it was 18 percent, in 2011 it was 65 thousand people, because the Socialist Government led by Gyurcsány did not put enough emphasis on the integration of our disabled countrymen into the labour market; it did not put enough emphasis and did not give budget support to workers in order to employ people with changed working skills; it did not support the public companies that otherwise employed our countrymen. That's why they left a lot of people on the side of the road, couldn't get a job, and couldn't work. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] The congressman will give you an opinion. 44 percent and 18 percent in your time. I think it's a huge achievement that more than doubled the number of people in our country who have changed their ability to work. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski: Because you threw them out of the system! The president's ringing the bell.]] So we can sum up: during the national Christian Democratic government, employment of people with disabilities has more than doubled, but more than 50 percent of people with disabilities of working age have not yet worked. The main objective is to increase the level of employment of people with disabilities, so that all those who want to do work that suits their skills and health. That is why I think it is a pleasure that the state-owned Handicraft company has now, during the epidemic, been able to increase the number of workers with reduced working skills by about 2,000, so even in such a difficult, economically difficult situation and in the middle of a health epidemic, the state's largest company with changed working skills, the State company Kézmű, could expand its staff. In this way he was able to offer value-making, value-bearing work, which makes them feel themselves, too, by the majority host society, that they are useful, valuable members of Hungarian society. The bill before us came before Parliament by establishing the Constitutional Court that Parliament had carried out a failure to fulfil its legislative function arising from an international contract when it did not establish rules for the conversion of the invalidity pension scheme that would allow the amount of benefit to be taken into account for the amount of physical improvement or for the amount of invalidity pension established before 1 January 2012. By 31 March 2022, the Hungarian Treasury will pay an allowance of HUF 500 thousand to the persons concerned under the proposal after the preliminary statement. If the rightholder does not accept the allowance, the authority shall, following a condition check, fix a new amount of supply, which shall not be less than the amount paid until 31 December 2011, if it cannot be demonstrated that the physical and biological condition that existed before 1 January 2012 and at the time of the decision leading to the reduction of the supply amount has improved. The status tests shall be carried out by 30 June 2023 at the latest. The Parliament is discussing an important issue, and it is important that our fellow countrymen with changed job skills also feel the support of Parliament, the support of political parties, that we have made decisions in series over the past years that have helped them integrate into the labour market; that give benefits to companies in the employment of workers with changed skills; that encourage people with different rights to work. Among these, there are many bill proposals for which we could not count on your votes, and you would have abandoned our fellow countrymen with changed working skills on this issue as well. I ask you to stand with them now, and my request is that you support this bill, as will the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since Mr Lajos Korózs, the appointed lead speaker of the MSZP Group, is not present, the lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr László Sebian-Petrovski, is next. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Members from Fideszes and KDNP have brought everything in the last half hour, but everything has been brought before the House, but they have not actually talked about why we are discussing this proposal, how it came here at all. A little undersecretary, but in fact, they talked about everything else, most of all, how much good this past 10 to 11 years, the Fidesz government, has brought to our disabled fellows. But if that were the case, then why should we sit here and negotiate this bill? Then we wouldn't need this thing, but we do! When I saw this proposal, again two minutes before midnight, Zsolt Semjén worked and submitted it, the first word that came to my mind was that it was finally settled; this error, problem, problem, which the government caused itself, was finally resolved and the settlement of this was finally presented. Last time I asked the Prime Minister a year ago, last May, when this would be expected. At the time, you said you were working on it, but it's a very complicated question. I thought, wow, it's gonna be a very serious calculation for who, what and how much compensation you're gonna get with interest, no interest, and the rest. That's why I was glad to see this proposal come in. Then, when I read it, I thought of a nasty word I wouldn't dare say, because Mr. President would rightfully take it away from me. Let's just say it's a scandal, the word that came to mind is a scandal. This proposal is a scandal! It is a scandal because the government has deliberately put hundreds of thousands of people in a worse position, knowingly spoiled by you, and I'll give you more details, and now almost ten years after the adoption of the original proposal, they're bringing in a proposal to try to buy the situation of these hundreds of thousands of people who could otherwise sue for years. It is true that the end of that would be many times as much compensation as your government is offering them now, but clearly many of you will live with it, because many of you have surveys for this, you have a social situation, employment and other situations that have caused you to see up to HUF 500,000 at the same time in your life, so you will consider this a solution. But let's be clear: this is actually the elimination of this social class, gentlemen. Let's go in line, because it looks like the story's gone wrong here. What are we talking about here? In 2011, the government consciously thought that tens of billions of forints could be taken out of this system. That's what they thought about health care, that's what they thought about higher education, and we could also say systems where the government consciously changed the rules during the first cycle so that they had to spend less on it, and this area was the victim of this. They made such a law, which caused a lot of things to be said here, about what rating and how hundreds of thousands of people were in worse situations, so that they became disabled with a lower grade, that they didn't actually grow out of their legs, in fact, there was no health change in their lives. Quite simply, a law that qualified someone as such on 31 December was the solution for you from 1 January. [[16.30]] According to the professional organisations, Mr. Secretary of State said that 940,000 people were affected at the time, I mean, who was involved in the whole area, the 140,000 people who were worse off. Either the monthly allowance they received or it's gone, 140,000 people got worse. Several of these individuals filed a lawsuit, by the way. I found two on the Internet, I'm sure there's a lot more than that. In 2017, a woman in Strasbourg's Human Rights Court received a compensation of EUR 12,000, whose invalidity pension of HUF 90,000 was split from 1 January 2012. This can be converted into compensation of about 4.5 million at today's price for one person. There was a woman in Baktalórántház who was sentenced to compensation of EUR 28,000 in another case, and Hungary was detained by the judicial body of the European Council. So there are very clear judgments that if they had been able to go through with it, that 140,000 people would have received a multiple of the 500 thousand forints offered to them today, they would have won. As a result, the Constitutional Court decided in 2018. It can be described and fought for terms that are not unconstitutional. Well, if the Constitutional Court objects, it is a problem to say that it does point to an important phenomenon. I would add that this was in 2018, when every member of the Constitutional Court of that time, already appointed by you after 2010, decided to do so by the Constitutional Court, which was made up of your friends. Your people have signaled to you, your own government, that, uh, something's gone wrong here. Mr Secretary of State has listed what the Constitutional Court's decision is about. Yes, it was about, for example, I read from this that Parliament's legislative task arising from an international treaty had been carried out by the Parliament, when it did not establish rules in the restructuring of the invalidity pension scheme that would have allowed the extent of the change in physical state to be calculated at the time of determination, rather than a change on paper, and it is determined on the basis of this. That's what happened, that's what happened. Now, then, the Constitutional Court has set a deadline and should have settled this by 31 March 2019. Two years have passed since then, two years have passed, and the government has not settled this issue, but has not introduced this proposal. The years have passed again, and now we have this proposal, which is that, no, it proposes that it be paid by 31 March 2022, who demands it, or who signs this particular declaration, this 500 thousand HUF. How, then, in the weeks before or until next year's elections, the government will resolve the fact that it will give a significant social layer HUF 500,000. Once again, we are talking about a one-off half-million forints, which would have been multiplied by the same person if the government had acted correctly: (a) this amendment would not have happened, (b) if it had already been done, the government would have made a proposal that, let's say, would have calculated to man, to piece, to each of the parties involved, how much he failed on this faulty, adopted law, and would have determined on the basis of whose quasi compensation and compensation was due. It is just a foam on the cake that, of course, there is no mention in the bill that if someone chooses the other option, in Hungarian, he says that I do not ask for 500 thousand forints, yes, there should be a re-qualification, look at it, there are prolonged deadlines, but there is no question that if the difference was established by the authority, then, for example, he would get it back from him with interest, perhaps with all the interest of the last ten years. There's nothing about that. I note that it is not mentioned in the bill either that this HUF 500,000 is gross or net, so you will be charged with any deduction, or you will actually receive this amount. It is important that I highlight this, and it is important that I mention it, because in the last year during the fight against the epidemic, there has been a benefit in the social and health sector where a large sum has been ringed, and then it turns out that, yeah, in fact, people have received much less, since such contributions and taxes have borne that amount. The essence of this is the National Association of the Associations of Limited Movements, and it is also publicly stated that it is still not known, because the Secretary of State said, and then a ministerial decree will regulate it, but at present it is not known what the technical details of the state check will be, so how the system, the system that you have created, changed and it turned out to be wrong, is now, as you have admitted, wrong, because this has led to the unfair situation. It is not known how we will not regenerate an unfair situation. Since these rules cannot be attributed, it is also not due to the fact that whoever chooses the second option does not accept the amount of 500,000, but says that he will carry the procedure through, already the procedure with a rating, then on what terms and conditions, and that he can hope for fair and fair proceedings at that level, as well as to the extent that this HUF 500,000 compensates for the nearly ten years of losses that these people have suffered through your persevering policy. So let me recap what happened in this. So the government knowingly created a situation that has put hundreds of thousands of people in worse situations, their own government has put these people in worse situations. This is also indicated by the Government's own people, the Constitutional Court, that there is a problem. The failure of court proceedings has also shown that this cannot be sustained permanently, yet they have waited ten years or almost ten years, and have now brought in this proposal, which would buy up this problem, trying to solve it with a one-off, de minimis allowance, so that these people do not go through the lawsuits and win them, and they are entitled to receive multiples of these amounts from the Hungarian State, the government that has put them in a difficult position by a measure which has adversely affected them. That's the thing. I'll tell you one more thing. The fact that this exit, the payout deadline for this is 31 March 2022, shows that it is not possible to deny that this proposal is a proposal for next year's elections, in addition to that, so that it is consciously determined that this layer will receive a significant amount before next year's elections, let's say, in a month. Once again, surveys and research have shown that unfortunately we are talking about a class of society whose ability to assert its own interests is very limited. In many cases, this HUF 500 000 allowance is likely to provide substantial help to improve their standard of living, but this does not relieve the government of a situation that you have caused and waited for ten years to provide any kind of medicine, not to compensate, not to restore the former state, not to pay interest on what would happen to the affected, but to try to resolve this issue with a one-time, small allowance. I think it's outrageous in itself. I think that the procedure, and the whole idea behind it, is outrageous, and that the government is behind it, and they think that it's still possible to do that after ten years of government, from their own fault, it's in itself a toaster. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, has arrived in the meantime and we are still in the lead speaker's time, I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-08-120	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I could start by saying that I'm perhaps even honored to have so much attention to my person. Look, I can settle this with one sentence: there is no man in Hungary, but also on earth, whose purpose in life would be to become disabled once, or to be a man with a changed job, and to work as a man with a changed ability to work. [[16.40]] However, I would like to add that you know exactly what situation has developed in Hungary in the labour market after the change of regime, and indeed, I can even say that the Antall government did not really have any other option, whose health or mental state had actually deteriorated, so you chose the simplest way to keep these people alive. But that's not what you did in 2012. That's not what you did! The Constitutional Court has clearly pointed out what the problem is. Let's line it up, then. The way I see it, we have to record five things right at the beginning, which is a matter of fact. One is that this law is now before the National Assembly because, indeed, in a significant part of the measures, the Constitutional Court has found that the National Assembly has acted incorrectly, or that it should create legislation for it to deal with this anomaly, which was produced in 2012, once and for all. This was the ominous deadline: the Constitutional Court gave Parliament five months in November 2018 to establish these laws. Each quarter, a parliamentary opposition group submitted a motion, and we discussed, almost quarterly, such a motion, a parliamentary resolution proposal, but even a bill, countless interpellations, speeches before the agenda on this issue, and you postponed this date, so let us fix this. The other is that before 2012, they would now receive an invalidity pension of HUF 500,000. It's a one-time allowance. I have my own opinion on this, but let's record this fact. Furthermore, the fact that anyone who does not accept this compensation must be initiated on request until 30 June 2022, here the rehabilitation authority will carry out a state-of-the-art examination, looks like. Please, if you can quote from the submission, the rapporteur says the following: anyone who does not accept the compensation may submit his application by 30 June 2022 so that the rehabilitation authority can carry out the health check. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The purpose of the health check is to determine that, at the time of the disability review, there was a real improvement compared to the physical condition immediately preceding 1 January 2012. So the status check must be carried out by 30 June 23 at the latest. The above will be notified to stakeholders by the end of 2021. However, this is the case: if the physical condition of the person concerned has not actually improved, or if the fact of physical improvement cannot be demonstrated, the amount of invalidity benefit to the person receiving the disability benefit, if it is more favourable to the beneficiary, is re-established, which should not be less than the amount of benefits in the month of December 2011 increased by interim increases. In addition, any person concerned, i.e. those who no longer receive invalidity benefits for some reason, receives the difference between the amount of the benefit due for December 2011 plus interim increases and the amount of the invalidity benefit actually paid. This will be on a retrospective basis until 1 January 2012 at the latest and will be granted in a single amount. In addition, it should be noted that, in relation to the Constitutional Court's decision, the proposed bill states that it gives the EMMI the power to comply with its additional legislative obligation. These will most likely be government decrees. But there are some things that need to be recorded here. For example, rules should be laid down for complex qualification and improvement of physical condition. You know what I mean? So there is a law tabled, I understand that further interpretations can be given by government decrees, but now the author asks those concerned to make a decision now that they have no idea what will be defined later in the government decrees. Let's see how I see this situation. Firstly, this proposal does not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, it does not define in the submission what it means to improve the state of affairs and does not define what it means to be a state of affairs. It seems to me that this law does not serve the interests of those for whom it has been submitted, neither the damages suffered nor the compensation for them, in fact, there is no substantive question here. Here, my fellow Member has just said, and I agree with him, here they want to keep their mouths shut before the 2022 elections. Think of the situation, I have a complainant from whom nearly HUF 50,000, and even more than HUF 50,000 were taken, let's say nine years ago. You know what I mean? ! You don't have to be a head counter, if you've taken this much monthly amount, it's 600 thousand forints a year, and it's 5 million 400 thousand forints in nine years. And they tell this man to shut up, settle for 500,000 forints, and then you can't enforce any demands because you gave up that right. They took almost ten times that man. Is this HUF 500,000 suitable to compensate for years of deprivation? Is this HUF 500,000 suitable to make this person who is affected forget the stress, the mental challenge, the mental illness he suffered over the years, or the frustration in which he went to bed every day without knowing that he could feed his children tomorrow because he was taken away from his care? Can this backwards HUF 500,000 cover the problem of a mother who fell from a public health allowance because she couldn't lower her blood sugar because she couldn't afford to eat healthy? Can you forget about the hunger, the medication, or the medicine that you haven't taken? Or the one who just lost his life? There is no such thing in this proposal. At the time, in the parliamentary resolution that we submitted, we made it clear what was needed. Firstly, which is not yet a budget line: you have to stand up to the Prime Minister and apologize and apologize to all the humiliated people. The second is that we demanded full compensation, plus an annual central bank base rate, in such a way that it is paid in one amount; and that it should be inherited that, where a person may have died, at least the heirs will receive this compensation, but not this 500 thousand forints. As I mentioned, the decision of the Constitutional Court was practically avoided by this proposal, since the detailed rules cannot be found in this document. The Constitutional Court's decision, I would also like to quote this, is that the problem with the restructuring of invalid pensions was, as I pointed out at the beginning, that the Parliament's legislative task resulting from the international treaty had been a failure, and, in particular, it did not establish rules that would allow the extent to which the actual physical state of the person entitled to care in determining the amount of the benefit was improving in substance, or the amount of the benefit established before 1 January 2012. In Hungarian, they did not even take into account the extent of the contribution paid for the taxable income before that, when he was an active employee. These people have been diagnosed with new care almost as a blow to the abdomen. My second point is that it will push the solution to the problem for another two years, since the so-called state check will have to be carried out practically by 1 July 2023. But, you know, I told you, physical improvement is practically not the same as improvement. [[16.50]] There is only improvement in the proposal, but the Constitutional Court talks about something else, and this proposal or the government's intention avoids this problem and this important definition. The way I see it, the invalids have been trapped with this presentation and this HUF 500,000, that at some point someone can get more. It's just, you know, it's not a matter of gambling. That's the problem. It's not like you're a millionaire. If we stop at 500,000 forints or go further than 500,000 forints, doesn't he get any help? These people have been eviscerated for years. Tell me, Secretary of State, how many hundred billion forints have been saved each year on these people. How many hundred billion forints? I'm curious to hear your answer. We look forward to the detailed rules, we look forward to them meeting, because we still have time, in three weeks there will be a vote on this, the call of the Constitutional Court, and the resolution will be literally brought to Parliament. 'Cause I understand that it's been filed, and I understand that there will be government regulations later, but I feel like there's nothing else going on here but that they're going to cheat these people again, just like they've been fooled for years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-08-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This concludes the speech of the lead speaker. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Well, it's very unworthy of what you're doing here. Who are they cheating? What are you talking about? Do you know who you're cheating on? On the Forbes list, the 2035th man, Viktor Orbán's stooge, is cheated! This is the end of everything, however, that we are here at the debate of such a law, and they start to build a vision in a anointing tone, in which they think in a very offensive way and speak in the Hungarian Parliament about the people of whom I personally know. Because I was there when you made such a austerity package, named Kálmán Széll, and deprived hundreds of thousands of disabled people of the right to receive the money they were supposed to receive. [[Continue in 188/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary I remember I was on the Employment and Labour Committee, there was this committee and there was a rehabilitation subcommittee. Now I don't have one. Well, I was the last president of that. I've called in these people, the people involved, the NGOs who told me they're gonna get a beggar's bot. In fact, I went to a review, I went through a review with one of the stakeholders when it was found that his health damage had changed and improved. I remember these days exactly. I also remember how people from 70,000 forints slipped down to 30-40 thousand forints from one day to the next, who had about this much in their drug bills. It wasn't a real improvement in these people. What happened was that you simply changed the percentage and downgraded these people on paper. It was published, and you've published that you need to get an Eskiman out of disability care. They came with this saying that they were frauds, that we listened to here in the Hungarian Parliament, that they had to be rehabilitated for three years, and then they could go to the open labour market, and whatever they had. Even though the Constitution was modified, it was not enough, yet in 2018, a catch was found on this law, on two sides. We said both, by the way. One is that the amount of the former pension should be taken into account and the other is that the actual improvement in physical condition should also be taken into account. Moreover, it is a shame that it is now 8 April 2021, and the Constitutional Court said that the legislative task must be fulfilled by 31 March 2019 and that the regulation must be amended. That didn't happen. We're two years after the deadline, and what they're about to do is also not what we're talking about. Yes, my colleagues have told me that they have a choice: they will either receive a one-off half-million forints and give up all their further claims, or they will carry out a state check by 30 June 2022 for an application submitted by the rehabilitation authority until 30 June 23. Here again, the rules will be shown later. We should see the rules, Mr. Secretary of State, honourable Members. Obviously, they don't deliberately show you, we know you enough to get people to choose the safe money, even if this money is a shameful handout. Because these people fell from millions of forints, it was determined that this money was due to them, they had acquired a right in the Constitution. So I think that this is not what the decoyed people deserve, this is not what people who, in many cases, pay with their health for hard work that they deserve more respect or respect for. There are two more topics. I pulled up my notes at the time and the subcommittee meetings, and we argued a lot about making an action ceiling for recipients of this kind of treatment. We have now received from you, too, that these people should be in the labour market and work. You are the ones who have introduced this income ceiling as a percentage of the minimum wage. We waited ten years for this barrier to be removed quietly in January 21. But then you understand why these people were deprived of their stipend? The number of people who took the job has increased, by the way. It was also a mistake we told you back then that you shouldn't do that. Yeah, I do, because eventually, there's gonna be too much money for these people. Is it true they thought that? Because some of you feel sorry for the money, and some of you don't feel sorry for the money. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Don't give us anything we didn't say.]] Right? I'm sorry, I can't hear what you're saying, but you don't have the floor. And the other one, and it's very important that there's a Covid epidemic now. I would like to draw your attention to what people often say, that there are unsuccessful job interviews, because in the Covid situation, looking for even worse jobs. It's obvious to everyone, but imagine the people it's much harder for anyway. I mean people with disabilities. It is not possible for hearing impaired people to read their lips, and for example to get to their workplace, direct physical contact is required in many cases. We also see that companies have accepted a proportionate reduction in the contribution to rehabilitation, of course, but if we look at it from the perspective of people with disabilities, it is not good, and it has the effect that they are not so much incentivised to employment, and it is even easier to leave disabled workers. This situation should also be considered. If I were to see this perspective in your work, I would say that something has finally been placed on the table, even if it is two years late. That is why I am saying that now is the time to raise disability benefits and raise blind people's personal benefits simply, and we need to encourage their employment with a reduced contribution right now. Besides, I also think that people with no change in working skills, but people with disabilities, should be exempt from tax now. So I suggest that you steer your thoughts in this direction rather than try to make the Constitutional Court censure these people so much and blackmail them. This is very unacceptable, outrageous, and I think that this is not what these people deserve. And that, please, will you stop cheating on these people? I'm telling you, as former chairman of the Rehabilitation Committee, I'm asking you not to distinguish between people. Don't make any distinctions between people on any level. Anyone who has this allowance, and from whom you have unlawfully taken it, must receive it back, but not half a million forints. And if it's work, make it easy. I just told you what to do. Write it down, do it, there's power, but there's responsibility. That's what I expect from you in the next period.
u2021-04-08-123	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor first to Mr Sándor Kovács of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-124	Thank you very much. Mr President, Our fellow Member, Róbert Dudás, is not here now, but he said that the chaos is from exactly what I brought up as an example, and he said that we should remove the example. I continue to believe that the complex review takes into account three aspects: medical, employment and social. The amputated-legged man, who is an economist in his profession, has no health impairment from an employment point of view. From a medical point of view, yes, it is a deterioration, but the example was employment. [[17.00]] With all due respect, don't get distracted. I tried to build it professionally and continue to set it up. And the fact that people are recalled as soon as this state is finalized, no one will be called back with respect. But the committee has to finalize a position that will stop the patient from being recalled for review. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is next, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, for a two-minute speech from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-126	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I told Congresswoman Bernadett Wind not to put words in our mouths that we didn't say. But thank you for finally staying here for some part of the debate and listening to the answer, unlike before. So don't put things in our mouths we didn't say. I would like to draw attention to this in particular. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, Ferenc Gyurcsány said here in Parliament: if there is a scandal, it is that today every third pensioner has a disability pension, and every second of the latter is still active, even working. [[Towards László Sebian-Petrovski:]] You also used the word "scrupulous" for this bill. Your boss here told me, as Prime Minister, that this is a scandal. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Did you do something to him? No. What did you do, Your Honour? (Sebian-Petrovski László intervenes. The president's ringing the bell. ) Between 2008 and 2011, 43,000 people in your review system were told that they could be traced back to the labour market. In two of these three years, do you know who the secretary of state was? Lajos Korózs. 43,000 people were told that it could be traced back to the labour market. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Did you do something to him? No. What did you do, Your Honour? (Sebian-Petrovski László intervenes. The president's ringing the bell. ) Between 2008 and 2011, 43,000 people in your review system were told that they could be traced back to the labour market. In two of these three years, do you know who the secretary of state was? Lajos Korózs. 43,000 people were told that it could be traced back to the labour market. (Sebian-Petrovski László intervenes.) That is what you said, honourable Member, when healthy people did not get a job either, because they brought together 12 percent unemployment in relation to their insufficient crisis management. (Sebian-Petrovski László intervenes. The president's ringing the bell. I would ask you not to look down on people with disabilities. Don't look down on them. You said that they have a very limited ability to pursue all kinds of interests. Don't look down on them. Ask the Secretary of State how many times he agrees and how strong his representation bodies are, how exemplary the disability organisations represent their interests. And then you come here and look down on them because you say they can't enforce their rights. With all due respect, honourable Member, don't look down on people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-127	Thank you very much. Congressman Sebian-Petrovsk may ask for a two-minute window, and then there will be no need to yell. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: He does not deserve it!]] Congressman, once again, if you ask for a word for two minutes, I will give it to you, but please don't have to warn me about the interruption. A proper speech will be followed by Mr László Varga, from the MSZP Group.
u2021-04-08-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that I am completely obsessed here with the pro-government speeches. We really didn't hear you say you're sorry. That should have been the first thing to start with. I come from an area that is obviously known to many people here, which is quite strongly affected with regard to disabled pensioners. It's been that way since the '90s. There are many reasons for this. Obviously Miskolc, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county was the citadel of the heavy industry until the beginning of the regime change, and then unfortunately, this was gradually built down in the region, and the region's resilience was shaken. However, I could also include mining, which has also deteriorated, and this has been a particularly risky workplace, especially in the underground sector in this respect. But the chemical industry, and I could list the industries that have been decisive in our county now or have been decisive in recent decades. One thing they have in common is that those who have done their job here for decades have put themselves at considerable health risk in all aspects. It may be true that statements from the leading actors of previous governments have been recalled here, but they could have even quoted statements from other areas of society, indeed, the issue of invalid retirement, especially in the years following the regime change, has been dealt with in many cases by addressing social problems. So the health and social aspects have been confused. That's my experience. But I am quite certain that many people in our area have been affected by this. In a broader sense, including the surrounding counties, hundreds of thousands of people in Eastern Hungary have been affected, who have actually worked for decades, because they have worked in an area, whether they have suffered health damage or have already suffered health damage, and that is why they have been disabled. It is possible to reform a system, it must always be corrected, I think that this is a task beyond governments, but it is certain that you have decided to do so in a way that you had two needs, and I remember these debates - one of which is that you wanted to save ten billion from the budget. That's how I saw it. They thought the country was spending a lot of money on the care of disabled pensioners. Two, they were just talking about cheating. That's what they did now. It's unworthy. So from a decade away, this is a completely unworthy thing, especially with it being quite clear that hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens were right at the time when they complained of this grievance and challenged your procedure. There was not much they could do at that time, but obviously the Constitutional Court examined the matter, made a decision, and this 21/2018 AB decision was almost three years ago, and the deadline expired two years ago, which was imposed by the AB decision for the National Assembly to eliminate this state of violation. We were sitting here with my fellow opposition Members during debates, and now I can think of one, and there are more people involved on this side, I see that my fellow Member Z. Carpath is in there, house savings banks, that's what I've come to think of. That we were here this morning, my colleague Korózs, and that's when we hear something coming in on Monday morning, at 11.55 a.m., something will come in to cancel the entire housing savings system. And the next day, we were still discussing it around noon, trying to convince you, think again, but no. So in just over 24 hours, a decision on a completely comprehensive termination of such a system will be taken, in just over 24 hours, and we will be waiting almost three years to bring something in on this issue. We are more than two years after the deadline laid down in the AB Decision has expired because it is 31 March 2019. So I think you should have apologized to the people involved to the pro-government representatives. It's a good place to start. It is not unprecedented, but it is still scandalous that compliance with the AB resolution is so late, and the government reacts so late, and I have to say that the content is outrageous because it was implied by my fellow Member Szél, and I think it is good that these people, many of them, have lost millions of forints in recent years. I've had a lot of people write about the neighborhood. So a lot of people from Miskolc, Borsod County came to me with questions like that. We see incredible human fates and tragedies. The question for these people, and you should see it here, is that if you are in a difficult, vulnerable financial situation, many people may give up and say that they will accept this 500 thousand forints, so that you have actually damaged them by millions of forints. That's the thing. So we believe that these people need strong representation. And no one on this side looks down on them at all, believe me. We've been there for them for the last decade. That is not what my opposition fellow Members have been talking about. I am saying this to my fellow Member Nacsa, because I think he misunderstood, that his two minutes show me this, or he wanted to misunderstand me, that might be it. The clear situation is that these people are in such a difficult financial situation, especially with regard to health problems and economic and social impacts caused by the previous year's coronal virus epidemic, that they may accept this situation in such a way that they know that if they took the time to enforce the law for a few more years, they may be able to receive much, much more compensation, but they will not wait for it in this difficult situation. But you know that, you know that. So I think that this proposal was made in this form in order to make this really difficult decision about the people involved. [[17.10]] So we are very late on this proposal, and we think that everyone should receive, obviously, the amount that you have taken from them, and I think that the general debate has not yet been concluded, and that they are still able to address it. Make sure that you make speeches that do not contain any other reverbations or misunderstandings, but that you apologize to those involved, because you made the original decision, you damaged these people, and you are the ones who have been delaying for years to bring the solution to Parliament. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-08-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to apply for a proper speech. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-08-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to urge my fellow pro-government Members to express themselves a little more modestly as regards the previous reviews of the disability system and the current one, because let us not go without saying that you have passed through a austerity package. The package named after Kálmán Széll was a austerity package for Fidesz and KDNP, so that my fellow Member Nacsa would not feel left out. Through this austerity package, they saved their lives in an unforgiving difficult situation for our fellow countrymen. They were treated about the same way as those who were allowed to be evicted from their homes without accommodation. They raided these people with pure cruelty. It is very difficult to find equally cruel governments in the last hundred years, even though I had one or two whom I would have been very happy to get rid of, or even his memory. The fact is that, in addition to evictions, the review of the disability system was one of the cruelest and most blood-freaking phenomena of Fidesz-KDNP's governments, as it was directed against vulnerable people with at least limited access to justice, either in the absence of financial means or for other reasons. I find it very difficult to deal with the disdainful, condescending pro-government style that you have after your austerity package, so after they have been looted, these people will be vouched. So I've given you a little restraint because of the fact that young democrats have no doubt become old Bolsheviks. You may not realize it, but you have become the same as your prominents fought when they were young, because you have wiped down the attic in these people, and now you are offering them silence money so that they do not try to enforce their rights. They're pure Bolshevik methods, and you're tax collectors of misery. There is therefore nothing to sugarcoat, and I would like to give you one last warning to lower your volume, to strengthen your activity a little, to listen to the constructive opposition proposals, because there are still constructive and up-to-date opposition ideas here, and at least in such a situation and with regard to these countrymen, a national minimum could be built. Don't make fun of your KDNP Eric Cartman, Nacsa Lőrinc, because you're the ones who make people evacuate from their homes in an industrial way. The number of families over 18,000 who lost their homes during your reign. There is no government in Hungary that can show such mournful numbers in this area, so I ask you to be a little more modest about the whole issue. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2021-04-08-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Attila Philip, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-132	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your comments and allow me, Members, to respond to the specifics concerning the letter of the law and which have been said; for a few statements have been made, which are not essentially based on the spirit of the law, and which would not stand the test of truth. I would like to make the other points, let me not answer, but I think that a few numbers or a few statements need to be put in place. Congressman Róbert Hondas, although he is no longer here, has asked me a few questions about this. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I will give it to him.]] The fact that it is a constitutional infringement or not, several decisions of the Constitutional Court dealt with this issue, and the first one in 2012 was 40/2012. the Constitutional Court's decision to examine a specific case, examining the constitutionality of the conversion of invalidity benefits, states that the Constitutional Court did not find the conversion to be contrary to the Fundamental Law in this decision. It's a matter of fact, it's not me. It's the Constitutional Court. It has been said many times that hundreds of thousands of people have been deprived of care overnight and that hundreds of thousands of people have been left without care. That's what's said here. It's not a long law, it's a one-and-a-half-page law. I am sure that the pension and the disability pension system were a very complicated regulatory system, and Mr Korózs knows it very well, this is one of the most difficult and difficult, but if the Members or women had read the Ab decision in full, the Ab decision objects to the fact that there is a guarantee rule in the law on the disabled. And this guarantee rule is that, by the way, if you receive disability benefits, you can't get less than you did in the month before the review. That's why I told you, I told you what his history was, because when the benefit turned the next day on December 31st 2011, all that happened was that the same amount was given to all the beneficiaries at a different address; all 936 thousand had the same amount. Then, when the first review came, there could only be a change in this, but in 2012 there was already a guarantee rule in the law, which said that those who received disability benefits could not receive less than what they had received before, except in one case, but this is the law, Congressman, so I'm not saying it by myself, except in one case, except for recovery. And the Constitutional Court said that this was not the way it should have been said here, and that the same guarantee rule should have been applied to the condition of improvement, as we said to the others. Overall, we talked about 936 thousand people, so on 31 December 2011, 936 thousand people received this type of care in Hungary. But almost half of that, by the way, is someone who has already reached retirement age. In their case, all that happened was that they received old age pensions from now on, and they were re-labeled. And for the rest of you, I don't want to go through the list right now, but the thing is, there were quite a large number of people who retired within five years, and that's why I said that it affected a large part of those who retired beyond five years, and they had the mandatory review. It does not mean that it is in vain that there was a review of 900,000 people. There was no review, there was only one review for a narrow circle and not for everyone. And I would like to emphasise once again that there was no such thing as one day after another, anyone lost their supply on 1 January 2012. The review that we are talking about is important because this complex rating has not previously provided for any normative regulation. So there was no regulation that would have said that there was a uniform way in the country how the review would be carried out. There was a recommendation issued by the World Health Organization that was used everywhere. This has been replaced by a ministerial decree, which, by the way, has been drawn up by doctors and specialists, which allows us to determine the percentage of health that remains, not as a result of damage to health but as a percentage of health. With this regulation, the Constitutional Court also has no problems, and I also consider this to be important because when an investigation is carried out in person there, it is not the government, it is not the government, it is not the government, it is not the government, it is the actors of the government, it is a medical expert, a social expert and a rehabilitation expert in higher education. What is critical is that, in the case of a given person, the ability to work or not is determined not only by his health status but also by the social situation he is in. Its employability exists or does not exist, which was introduced into this system by this Regulation. [[17.20]] That wasn't the case before. So far, it's just a health check. The fact that he is fit for employment in terms of social and occupational rehabilitation is relevant as described in this Regulation. The question was whether it was gross or net. This is also clear from the draft law because invalidity benefit is a benefit from which no contribution is paid. By the way, it's from rehab, it's a fact that it's happening there, not here. So from this point of view, we are talking about 500,000 forints, which you will receive, quite simply because of the way this type of care behaves. It was also a question, if I remember correctly, from Mr Sebian-Petrovsk, whether or not there is an increase in it, so there is some sort of compensation in it in recent years. The law itself states that paragraph 6 states that the amount raised, including the amount increased by interim increases, is increased. Interim increases, as both rehab care and disability care always increase with the rate of pension, therefore an automatic increase is also appropriate in this respect. All in all, I would like to say in the end to what has been said, that this law gives us the opportunity once again to highlight what the law is all about, with a lump sum payment of HUF 500 000. Which was a question of why we didn't define it as a person for everyone. Because you can't do that in a law. That is why there are committees who can determine the percentage of remaining health, so if one accepts it, then the other way exists, where there is a medical review, a medical expert review, and there is a way and opportunity. In conclusion, I would like to say what was said many times in the end about why we talked about fraudsters. I never once said that word. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-133	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. We now have the XCV of 2005 on the inclusion of dangerous psychotropic substances in the drug list of medicinal products for human use and other laws governing the pharmaceutical market. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/15707. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-134	[[Your mic doesn't work for a second.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House,
u2021-04-08-135	I'll ask for time to be restored. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-136	Mr President, Dear House, The Commission of the European Union adopted Decision 2020/1687. Delegated Directive 2004737/JHA requires the inclusion of a new psychoactive substance in the Annex. In the future, this substance will fall under the same consideration as drugs in terms of sanctions. Member States should take measures to enable the provisions of the Framework Decision to be applied in their territory. Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code in the Legislative Decree declaring the United Nations Drug Convention and the Act XC of 2005 amending the laws governing the pharmaceutical market on medicinal products and other medicinal products for human use. It considers psychotropic substances as narcotics as defined in Annex 2 to Law No 2. In view of the fact that the drug convention can only be amended by the United Nations, the obligation of the Commission Directive can be fulfilled by including the substance in Annex 2 to the Medicines Act. Named substance, isotonitazene is currently a new psychoactive substance in Hungary in Hungary, as it is listed in 55/2014 on substances or compounds classified as new psychoactive substances. It's a list of EMMI orders. Abuse can therefore still be sanctioned, the amendment serves strict action and to meet our obligations. It should be noted that the 55/2014 EMMI Regulation allows one of the fastest responses in Europe to ensure that the abuse of new psychoactive substances in Hungary and in other Member States of the European Union can be punished as soon as possible. On this basis, I ask this House to support T/1570. Our bill number 1. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-137	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Ms Gabriella Selmeczi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-138	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Illegal drug trafficking and consumption are still a threat both in the EU and in our country. It affects the health of citizens and the safety of our country, our nation. Unfortunately, more and more people, especially young people, are consuming new psychoactive substances. Young people often do not even know what they consume, and they are often unaware of the danger that this poses to them and to their health. The risks associated with new psychoactive substances have also encouraged national authorities in the Union to introduce various restrictive and restrictive measures for these substances. It was a pleasure to hear from the State Secretary in her presentation that the Hungarian authority was practically the first to take action on this issue. Thank you very much. The European Parliament and the Council entered into force on 23 November 2018 (2017/103). Directive 2002/92/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on This Directive amended the Council Framework Decision 2004 laying down minimum standards on the factual elements of criminal offences and penalties in the field of illicit drug trafficking. The amended Framework Decision serves an important purpose by allowing common action against illicit drug trafficking through the minimum standards contained therein. Drug trafficking also threatens the health, safety, quality of life of citizens of the European Union and the legitimate economies, stability and security of the Member States. The amendment adopted was intended to allow for a common fight with new psychoactive substances, which also pose many risks, so as not to escape the scope of the legislation with these new types of psychoactive substances. In Article 1 of the definition, the concept of drugs is supplemented by the fact that the substances listed in the Annex are also considered to be drugs. In addition, the new psychoactive substance and the preparation were also added to the Framework Decision. It is important to note that this Directive empowers the Commission to include those new psychoactive substances in the Annex to the Directive on the basis of the risk assessment report. Thus, the EP Directive subscribes the substance to the substance concerned. Following the addition of the Annex, Member States have six months to bring into force the laws, regulations or administrative provisions which allow the provisions of the Framework Decision to be applied in their national law. In Hungary, Act C of 2012 on Criminal Code 459. Paragraph 1 of Section 18 defines the scope of drugs. [[17 .30]] According to this, the substance published by Decree-Law No 17 of 1988 amending and supplementing the Single Drug Convention, as amended and supplemented by the Protocol of 25 March 1972, as set out in Lists 1 and 2 of the Annex to the Consolidated Drug Convention of 30 March 1961, published in New York, New York, and in Schedule 1 and 2 of the Annex to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971, published by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979, and XCV of 2005 on the modification of the laws governing the pharmaceutical market, as set out in Schedules 1 and 2 of the Annex to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971. a psychotropic substance as defined in Annex 2 to Law No 2. It was important for us lawyers and delicacies, but it was important for us to read to the record what we should consider here and where these additions are going. The transposition of the decision of the Commission of the European Union in the Directive is set out in the 2005 XCV. may be implemented by means of an amendment to the law. The T/1570 in front of us. Proposal No 20/1687. It is intended for the transposition of EU Directive No 1. As a result of the risk assessment carried out at European Union level, a new psychoactive substance is listed in Annex 2 (A) to the Child Protection Act containing dangerous psychotropic substances that are considered to be drug-related. So the very important innovation here is that a new psychoactive substance will fall into the same category as drugs, i.e. a drug for criminal purposes. Illegal drug trafficking and consumption have a serious impact on social and economic organisations, structures and undermines the quality of life of individuals and the safety of Member States. I therefore believe that the bill is in any event for a purpose to be supported, and I ask you and the members of the other groups to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-139	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I have not prepared numbers, but I think that, in this situation, although, as Congresswoman said, this is important for lawyers, and this delicacy is much more important for us to act and move quickly, because we need to remedy a serious problem. As has been the case so far, we will support this area and this issue in this situation, because I think it can be said that the legislator is always a little late in this area, and we can safely say that he is late without his own fault. Because, let's say, by changing an ingredient, the substance is already in a different category, and the authorities are unable to deal with the criminals in question. It is just as a problem in the countryside as it is in the city, and it is also a problem for the older and middle-aged classes, as we have to say, unfortunately, it is becoming more and more widespread among children. I think it should be any age group, but if we mention the need to legislate to protect children, I think there is no time to delay. As I said, of course we will support it. We are going to support her so much, and I would also like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to this issue, so that we may try to pay a little more attention to the other side, what the other side says, may not be wrong. The only reason I dare say this is because we have also tabled a 2020 budget amendment on this subject is that we need to invest more preparedness and more money in this area in order to protect children and protect families. So we welcome this amendment and, of course, we will support it. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-142	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Madam Secretary! As has been said, and I agree with my fellow Members, the bill before us deals with and helps to combat drugs on a serious and important topic. After all, all forms of drugs are among the most harmful in terms of both the individual and the individual's family and society. We can only imagine zero tolerance against drugs, and we support to a large extent all the tightening ups, just as we have previously supported any tightening up and action against designer drugs, psychoactive psychotropic substances. Hungary has seen legislation on new psychoactive substances and the reduction of the domestic use of designer drugs in recent years. On 1 July 2013, the new Criminal Code, the European Union's fastest response to current problems, entered into force. This is due to the fact that this tightening of the EU Member States was the first to enter into force in Hungary, which includes, among other things, strict criminal law rules on design-negrogs with European standards. Since 1 January 2014, the law on the sanctioning of all acts involving new psychoactive substances, similar to drugs, has been in force. Hungary is one of the few EU countries where the possession of new psychoactive substances is prohibited, and it follows that the most stringent legislation is in place in the European Union in terms of possession. As of 1 January 2015, the list of new psychoactive substances will no longer be defined in a government regulation, but in a ministerial regulation, which will allow for a faster response. Here I must agree with my better fellow Member that, without the system's own fault, it is slow. I think it is worth starting a dialogue where we move towards a system where everything is forbidden, all new materials are automatically banned until, say, they allow or until proven otherwise. So it may be possible to reverse this over time, and we can prevent the slowness of this or the cumbersomeness of the system, because really, as my fellow Member has said, by changing a compound, by replacing a single element, a new structure is created chemically, so it can no longer be classified as one of the other substances on the list. As a result of the current bill, a new psychoactive substance, the official designation of which isotonitazene, will now be included in a list of dangerous psychotropic substances that are considered to be one of the drugs, is now considered a drug for criminal purposes. Given the continuous emergence of new substances, which may even be extremely dangerous, the rapid response is as important as possible. This is also seen in the statistics, that the number of drug offences that have been increasing until 2014 has been a stagnation since 2014, but this is still a lot, and we still have a big problem to deal with. In this case, we may all have a common goal of combating drugs and protecting young people from one of the greatest threats to them today. In this, we expect the cooperation of all parliamentary parties and Members, despite the fact that in recent times there has been a kind of how to put it? , articles on opening up to light drugs, and they welcomed steps to facilitate certain regulations, such as in some states of the United States or in other Western European countries, to tighten the possession or consumption of light drugs. I think it's a wrong direction, and we shouldn't move in that direction. Thank God, even among opposition parliamentary parties, this opinion has not come to its head, but in the Balliberal press we have read a number of such articles in the past period, and Hungary has been directly condemned for, for example, why the European Union opposes the position of medical cannabis, and there are a number of attempts to withdraw light drugs from criminal sanctions in the media, obviously presenting important examples in Western countries, which I do not think are fortunate for the Hungarian public, nor for the implementation of strict criminal policy and a strict anti-drug strategy. In my opinion, it is extremely important that we act together against drugs, drugs, psychotropic substances, the use, possession and dissemination of psychoactive substances, and we obviously do our international obligations every year, and even one of the most stringent regulations in the European Union is in place from this point of view, not only consumers, not only distributors, but also owners are being punished, and this bill will, of course, be supported by KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.40]]
u2021-04-08-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Members who spoke before me, particularly my fellow members of the Government, have spoken in detail about the amendment proposal before us, the bill, and I do not do so now, but I would like to say that this was not necessary for our persuasion, because we support this proposal very clearly. We do so because it is also a legal harmonisation obligation, a concrete example and the social hazard of drug use, so we see it as a problem that must be combated. The European Commission 2020/1687. Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2004 on the use of the substance isotonin and psychoactive substance is now classified as a drug. If that is the case, then our position is that due to our obligation to harmonise legislation, for the sake of Hungarian society, we can have no other task than to support the proposal before us. So overall, although I have been here in a great deal of debate with several of my fellow members of government, this is not going to happen, I am not going to argue, because I see that there is full agreement in this House on this issue. On behalf of the MSZP fraction, we can provide our support for the presentation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-08-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mrs Ildikó Horváth, State Secretary, if she would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, please, you have the floor.
u2021-04-08-146	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you so much for your support. That's what I'd like to add on our part. We will continue to work to provide healthier children, a healthier nation, as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-147	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on certain provisions relating to asset management and amending certain laws concerning asset management and national financial services until closure. Government referral T/15706. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. For the first time, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-148	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and the amendment of laws concerning certain asset management and national financial services is to establish or amend legal provisions on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets to specific beneficiaries. In addition, for certain public assets, the legal designation of the trustee and the establishment of provisions for each trustee are included in the proposal, and it also sets out provisions concerning the amendment of certain legal provisions concerning the management of public assets and national financial services. The purpose of the bill is, on the one hand, to transfer properties which are not used by the State to carry out public tasks to the municipality and to the church legal person involved in the provision of public tasks. According to the proposal, the municipality of Bakonybél receives two state-owned properties located in the municipality in order to help the local government carry out sport, cultural and other public tasks. The Catholic Charity Service also owns two other properties located in the territory of Bakonybél in order to ensure the expansion of the Soul Rehabilitation Home for patients operating in Bakonyszücsi. Allow me to point out that this home is primarily for the care and rehabilitation of sick children. For the preservation of cultural values, to contribute to the protection of the built heritage, in particular the heritage of the monument, they will be owned by the Budapest II Foundation of Education, Culture and Science for Civil Culture established as a foundation of public interest. The buildings of the former Váry-Szabó mansion, situated in the district of Szabó. The property is transferred to the company, the foundation, subject to a prohibition on disposal, with a view to regaining the former light of the mansion. The beneficiaries of the provisions of the bill granting the State claim are the Hungarian Lovassport Association and Kincsem Kft. They are both prominent players in Hungarian horse sports with a long tradition. Dear Parliament, The bill before you clarifies the number of persons employed in the winding-up organisation and the legal form of their employment in connection with inclusion in the list of liquidators, and changes the scope of public data in the public interest of the public register, in line with the data on executives. The Water Management Act is supplemented in order to facilitate the removal from the real estate register of the right of operator registered for the properties of state-owned water and water facilities. The management law was abolished decades ago, however, in a number of cases no effective cancellation of registered management rights has taken place, while the Water Management Act has designated the Water Management Boards as trustees in State-owned waters, but registration of the Trust Law is not possible until the previously terminated management rights are deleted. The amendment aims to register the trust rights of water directorates and to carry out the public tasks of the water directorates in relation to the immovable property concerned. The bill amends certain provisions of the State Property Act in order to resolve the problems raised by the law enforcement practices of the past period. Other trustees beyond local governments, for example, also provide for the possibility of exempting churches and church legal entities from the obligation to recover, if the task that led them to the asset management is considered to be a public task. In order to reduce bureaucracy, the bill also settles cases where the trustee would be exempt from the obligation to recover by virtue of the law, but only upon termination of the trustee's legal relationship, in the context of the settlement process can obligations, claims, and the fact that the trustee is exempt from the obligation to redeem can be fixed. The bill expands the scope of the sale of non-compete materials that are not considered waste and requires the sale of small-value assets without competitive tendering in the case of movable property which causes unnecessary handling and storage costs to the State. In order to increase efficiency, the bill extends the decision-making powers for free ownership, so the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. Up to HUF 25 million per year as a beneficiary, you may decide to dispose of the property free of charge. [[17.50]] Dear House, The Fundamental Law guarantees the fundamental rights of nationalities living in Hungary, including the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach their mother tongue, which requires appropriate education. The law on the rights of nationalities states that the right of maintenance of national or regional education institutions established by the State or the local government, which fulfil the task of nationality, should be transferred to the national minority self-government. Together with the transfer of maintenance rights, the transfer of state assets necessary for the performance of educational institutional tasks should also be ensured. The bill amends the provision of the Law on the Rights of Nationalities on the benefit of property, so that the property assigned to the task is able to ensure the fulfilment of the public service in the long term, whether the state, the municipality or the local government are the recipients of the task. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you amends the rules of the National Property Act concerning the transfer of ownership of state or municipal owned national or local roads and their works, as well as of public or local government-owned spaces, parks and public gardens, as a result of which the State and local authorities may transfer these elements not only in the context of free but also in the context of returnable legal transactions. The amendment to the National Property Act also makes it clear that central budgetary bodies, which are public collections, are entitled to purchase property belonging to the cultural assets necessary for the operation of the public collection and for the performance of their public tasks. In addition, in order to simplify and speed up the procedures of the amendment contained in the bill, it allows the transfer of the right of trust with contracts concluded between central budgetary bodies in respect of movable property, in view of which the new trustee may exercise the right of trustee under his own asset management contract already concluded after the transfer. By amending the Postal Act, the bill clarifies the scope of the dispatchers of the official document, the concept of registered mail, and introduces the definition of the postal link for the purpose of a clear application of the law. As a result of the amendment, the decision to finance an unfair additional burden through State resources will be left to the Minister responsible for the postal affairs at all times, both in terms of the fact of reimbursement and the sumibility of the amount of the ceiling of EUR 15 million corresponding to the previous regulation, or in the case of an approval decision of the European Commission, the ceiling set therein will continue to apply. In addition, the bill initiates the adoption of further amendments in order to fulfil the universal postal service obligation and provides for the deregulation of the provisions on the universal postal service support account, taking into account that over the past years it has become apparent that this financing mechanism is effectively not in place in any EU Member State and is not viable in Hungary because there is no alternative service provider in addition to Magyar Posta liable to contribute to the account, so that the repeal of these provisions is reasonable and necessary. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the law on the transfer of certain state-owned assets to free municipal property to perform the tasks of county libraries and city museums with county authority, the designation of the Museum of Fine Arts as a trustee, facilitates a worthy presentation of the national property of public collections. The aim of the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin is to help the Foundation carry out its public tasks. The Foundation shall carry out tasks related to participation in children's and youth programmes, the organisation of children's and youth camps, and the related organisational, management, education and training activities to protect future generations. In addition to what has been said, the adoption of the bill makes it possible to settle the additional issues of asset allocation for the Egri county of Szent Erzsébet Catholic Primary School in Sárospatak, thus ensuring the conditions necessary for the general education and education tasks of the county of the Archdiocese. Dear Parliament and fellow Members, Please make the T/15706. To discuss the legislative proposal, please support the regulatory intentions set out in the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. I'll wait for the congressman to put the microphone on. [[Mihály Witzmann: Thank you very much.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-08-150	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard in detail the details of the bill before us in the Expo. T/15706 on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and amending laws concerning certain asset management and national financial services The purpose of the legislative proposal is to provide for the transfer of ownership of certain state-owned assets in order to ensure the necessary conditions for the public service mission carried out by the beneficiaries, and to adopt, on the basis of the experience gained by law enforcement, the amending provisions of the laws relating to the proposal necessary for a uniform interpretation of the law, and to transpose, in the past period, national assets and changes in the management of assets through the legislation contained in the proposal. The bill consists of four state-owned real estate situated within the Bakonybél settlement and the Budapest II. District 54224/1 and 54224/2 contains provisions concerning the free ownership of immovable property and certain trustees, as well as amendments to, inter alia, the Water Management, Postal Services and State Property Act. Ladies and gentlemen, The municipality of Bakonybél is CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. Act No. 13 In order to facilitate the performance of a public service mission pursuant to § 1 (1) (15), it initiated the sale of real estate into free municipal property to facilitate the performance of sport and cultural and other tasks. In fact, the Veszprém Archbishop initiated the free transfer of ownership of the property in question in parallel with the request received from the municipality, in order to expand the Soul Rehabilitation Home of patients operating in their possession, the post-treatment and rehabilitation of children with cancer in the home. The ownership of these properties would increase the performance of this activity, given that the needs for care provided by the home exceed the current capacity. After the application, the Archbishop handed over the maintenance of the home to the Catholic Charity Service, the internal church legal person of the Hungarian Catholic Church. The current name of the home is accordingly Catholic Love Service Spiritual Rehabilitation Home. The Catholic Charity Service, designated as the new ecclesiastical beneficiary, also expressed its intention to take over these properties. [[18.00]] It is important to point out that real estate is currently unutilised and is not necessary for the performance of public tasks. The amendment of the law we are discussing proposes the sharing of property among beneficiaries on the basis of the agreement reached during the negotiations. LIII of 1996 on the protection of nature The Minister of Agriculture's prior agreement is required for the disposal of the protected natural area. Subject to the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Nature, a preliminary agreement of the Minister of Agriculture, which is the condition of the transfer, is under way. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) With the beneficiaries the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. enter into a transfer agreement. The beneficiaries acquire ownership of the property together with the burden, and the transfer of ownership is also conditional upon the municipality and the Catholic Charity Service taking full responsibility for the property. According to the proposal, the State-owned Budapest II. district 54224/1. real estate and Budapest II. District 54224/2 local property free of charge for the 2020 CVI on each trust fund and its asset allocation. The Cultural, Cultural and Scientific Foundation for Civil Culture established under the Act is owned by the Foundation for the Conservation of Cultural Values, to contribute to the organisation of cultural events, to the pursuit and promotion of educational activities, to contribute to the protection of the built heritage, in particular the heritage of monuments, to the support and care of organisations, institutions and persons engaged in such activities. The Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. is also responsible for the transfer of ownership. enter into an agreement with the Foundation. It is essential that, contrary to the provisions of the National Property Act, it is proposed that the property in question be acquired by the Foundation subject to an indefinite disposal and debit ban. In relation to the Postal Services Act, the proposal before us clarifies the scope of the dispatcher of the official document in order to ensure that the State and municipal bodies and other bodies or persons specified in the law, which carry out the procedure in question, are exclusively entitled, and that the other parties to the proceedings, lawyers and law firms are not. The consignors, who are entitled to the dispatch of the official document, are therefore not at any disadvantage as regards the justification for the dispatch of their mail, since they can use the return letter service instead. At the same time, Magyar Posta Zrt. its resources will be used much more efficiently, since in these cases there will be no need to use a significantly more complex technology typical of the official document, such as the twice-delivery attempt. In order to ensure a clear application of the law, the concept of a postal guide is also defined, which is briefly a means of delivery along the roads, which allows the admission of mail and ensures the delivery of mail to the mailbox, or clarifies the detailed rules for such mail. In addition to the above, the purpose of the amendment is to clarify the duration of the processing. In the event of a health crisis, the postal service provider is entitled to deliver registered mail to the consignee without any personal transfer, with the use of unfortunately increasingly popular, so-called non-contact technology today. In this case, the postal service provider shall record the fact of service and, when delivering certain kinds of consignments, the type and number of the document which may be used to verify the identity of the recipient, but shall not take the signature of the recipient, so that no physical contact is established. With regard to the law, the Secretary of State has already spoken in detail here on matters concerning the post office, if I may, I would like to cross that. According to the amendment of the Water Management Act, we are talking about the addition of the right of manager to facilitate the removal of the right to property ownership of state-owned waters and water facilities from the real estate register in order to register the trust rights of the water management board designated by the Act in the real estate register and the water management board should carry out its management tasks in relation to the real estate concerned in accordance with the law on state property. The other law concerned is the law on Elizabeth camps. According to the legislation, the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin is a public service mission in order to protect future generations through participation in children's and youth programmes, the organisation of children's and youth camps, as well as related organisational, management, education and training activities, using support from the central budget. The fundamental purpose of the Foundation's statutes is to perform tasks related to the recreation of Hungarian children living in the Carpathian Basin. In order to ensure that children's and youth camps are run as high as possible, the state-owned Budapest interior 9121/7 local property will be owned by the foundation free of charge by this former Csillebérc pioneer camp. Prior to the transfer of ownership, the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. arrange for the change of the branch of the property and the deletion of the national forest stock from the data base. The provision also provides that, following the transfer of ownership, the Foundation shall register the forest area of the transferred property as a school forest in the National Forest Register. The contract on the transfer of ownership is signed by MNV Zrt. concludes with the Foundation that, when using the property, it is the responsibility of the Foundation to take into account environmental and conservation aspects, in particular the protection, maintenance and preservation of biodiversity for future generations. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/15706 on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and amending certain laws concerning the management of assets and national financial services. A number of legislative amendments must be decided by this House. Since we have heard from the Secretary of State a great many of the laws involved in detail and in his exposé about them, I would not spawn the word. In the light of what has been said, I believe that the bill before us is fundamentally supportive, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-151	Thank you and welcome to my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-152	Mr President, Dear House, I am always in a difficult position by the Secretary of State, because I am basically dealing with a very professional pro-government colleague, with whom we have had a lot of productive discourses since 2010, otherwise we have had a lot of debates about other things in life. When such a proposal is put before us, which actually rewrites thirteen laws with a single pro-government salad law, then on the one hand, the single opposition representative is put in an impossible position with regard to the intention to support it, because we can surely find something in a package this size that is unsuitable. However, the unpleasant situation is increasing, because we can also find something that would be said by a good patriot and he also says that this should be supported. Mr. Secretary. The problem is that what I'm saying about asset management, not you, believe me, is that I'm not addressing it as your professionalism, but what this government has been saying since 2010, has created a situation that I might be able to shed the most light on through the Bakony example. I am sure that I am the maximum supporter of our unfortunate countrymen and very difficult countrymen's recreation, recovery or, if necessary, the worst period, or the last few weeks, months in decent conditions, and I think that all good people can only give their support to this. At the same time, there are reports in the analytical press that, where appropriate, Bakonybel houses on the side of the forest, based on the Google map, and what if they become a hunting house. As in the case of many pro-government potentates, or let's stick to the assumption, because there may not be any final judgments in this case that the renovation, construction or support of hunting houses in their own possession or in their own use from public funds or from EU funds has taken place. I very much hope that there is no such thing here, and indeed as a bona fide opposition Member, which is good, I would like to support it in this package. That's why I'm a little uncomfortable with the salad law amending thirteen laws, making it impossible for me to press a button for even noble purposes. It would have been much luckier to take it apart, and than in normal parliamentary times, we'd have taken that half hour, an hour per proposal, each topic for these very important and very controversial stories. [[18.10]] So, once again, what is about helping children with cancer on one side and setting up their worthy circumstances on the other, it may be that hunting houses are used under strange circumstances. I don't want to tell you who's right, and I don't want to pass judgment because I'm not entitled to it; I say that the climate around the management of assets has become so negative in recent years that unfortunately these fault lines and these cart camps exist. The emergence of trust funds has made this situation incredibly worse, and this is probably where there will be a substantive debate between us, which we cannot bridge with the best of intentions. Obviously, the opposition press treats trust foundations by preparing Fidesz-KDNP for election defeat, which may have a higher chance than it has ever had in ten years, but of course, do not predict anything, and try to make up a thousand billion-dollar fortune in the management, use and possession of organisations where the fate of the various state assets cannot be traced. And, well, this concern seems relatively well founded, especially if we look at certain provisions of the National Property Act, which apply to state property, the assets outsourced to the Foundation are no longer covered. We see exactly the amazing things, if we look at these paragraphs and the areas to be modified, that the Elizabeth Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin will appear here again. Let's just say there's nothing wrong with the foundation in itself. As a believer, I have nothing against the fact that if an ecclesiastical foundation manages any property, and if it does so in a responsible manner, in compliance with the laws in force, and applies the law on national property itself, then I really will not have a problem with it. The problem is, it doesn't apply. What has so far been supervised by state assets and has had consequences for misappropriation of wealth or inadequate treatment is no longer true of assets or assets outsourced to these foundations. We see that when such a salad law involves real estate, paintings, sports, church debts, but even the matter of the post office, professionalism on the periphery sails somewhere far away or disappears on the horizon. And what we're really seeing is the exploitation of the Csillebérci Freedom and Youth Centre, or the use of it in a different way than before, I think that would be the basis for a legitimate debate. However, the fact that a foundation is being managed gives rise to a debate, since the opposition has every right to be concerned about the outsourcing of assets here. Since Mathias Corvinus, in the case of countless other foundations, respect for the exception is given to the general staff, because not only do Fidesz potentates appear. Most of them are transferred to assets that we have been able to control so far, which, in turn, can or may not be played in the new form of foundation. Some of us have declared that it's not supposed to be, but some have stated that, yes, there is a scenario about beating the drum. Here is our favourite right away, the first playful bouquet of the Zánka and Fonyódliget Erzsébet camps, but also about the renovations. We see that the state has announced a tender here and is financing an almost HUF 22 billion renovation, but the interesting thing is that, in the meantime, Elizabeth, close to the Diocese of Szeged-Csanádi, donated the property concerned to the Children's Foundation in the Carpathian Basin. So the very amazing situation is that Somogyliget has also been given away, Mr. Secretary of State, but disprove me, if I am wrong, as if it were Fonyódliget, Fonyódliget, since 2018, so I know that there have been no children camping here since 2018. So now there is reason to give away a property here to improve the circumstances of children, where children have not been camped for years. Well, then, how is this justification coming along, and what is this whole proposal about that you have put before us? The fact is that what arises in Fonyódliget is also raised in the case of a number of other assets and assets acquired by the trust fund. And, well, the interesting thing is, the state's putting out a tender, funding a 22 billion-dollar renovation, and the consortium of Lőrinc Mészáros's company appears surprisingly in this story, and they're putting this package in front of us as if it were directed by the greatest good intentions and the greatest professional goodwill. The fact is that we have not been convinced of this, and we are waiting for the explanation by the Secretary of State and the explanation by his fellow members of the Government as to how the justifications that, I say again, in the case of children with cancer will stand up if we are benevolent, and I would like to be so on this issue, but, let us say, Fonyódliget is certainly not. Thank you, and I look forward to substantive answers.
u2021-04-08-153	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-154	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We're dealing with a wide-ranging, real salad law, and there's more to the bill before us. Mr Secretary of State has explained in detail some of the amendments to the bill. I would call Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát here on the matters of Csillebérc to ask László Varju how it has been for the past 25-30 years, he is the one who has not answered to this day. And if you are talking about the opaque conditions, outsourcing, privatisation, honourable Member, regarding the Camp Csillebérc, then the situation, honourable Member, is that, for Hungarian youth, the regime change ended in 2015, when this camp was returned to its rightful owner, the State, with an illegal transaction when it came from the KISZ to the pioneer alliance and bought the most valuable part of the pioneer camp at a price of 14 million instead of 90 million. The Hungarian youth suffered 10 billion forints because they could not use the Csillebérc camp. Why don't you knock there, Your Honour, on this matter? Still, we have put on many cases for Congressman Varju, concerning his person and his family; he has not responded to this, and he is obviously not going to answer it today. But the thing is, I think that it must be put into the service of Hungarian youth. We've wasted 25 years because the camp at Chillérc became the victim of the communist mug. We've wasted 25 years. It is very important that the Csille-bérci camp, the hunting house on it, and all the other surrounding tools and areas available are finally serving the cause of young Hungarians and young Hungarians again, because when the left changed hats in 1989, it was the first corruption case of the new left after 90, one of the biggest corruption cases at the time when they started to rewrite the past as a new left and relive the future. So I think, honourable Member, that you should not address these questions to us, especially on behalf of the united opposition, when you are trying to make us account of the Csillebérci case in an alliance with the MSZP and DK. I think that the four buildings in Bakony, located in the area of the High Bakony Landscape Protection District, which the municipality of Bakony and the Archbishop of Veszprém owns, this bill is, on the one hand, an important social task. I hope that today the DK lead speaker will spare us the anti-church outbursts and will not criticize the assets and properties to be provided to the church. The four properties in Bakony were previously owned by HungaroControl Air Traffic Management Ltd. was in the management of assets, currently unreliable, not necessary for the performance of public tasks. So, for a state task, no real estate is needed in the service of an important social objective. Since the Veszprém Archbishop intends to make use of the property for the expansion of the Soul Rehabilitation Home of patients operating in Bakonyszücs, so a property lying on parlag is at the service of the rehabilitation centre, I think that the goal that we all have to support is what will be achieved here under the bill. After-treatment and rehabilitation of children who have had cancer in the home could be expanded by the ownership of the property. In our view, the expansion of the home is not only an important but also a high priority public interest in society, so we welcome and support the plans of the Veszprém Archdiocese, but we also thank and thank the home workers for their sacrifices for the physical and mental healing of children suffering from cancer. The Veszprém Archbishop has handed over the maintenance of the home to the Catholic Charity Service, which continues its work so far and undertakes to develop and expand the home. The bill contains an amendment to the Erzsébet Camps Act. Erzsébet camps, which are not only national, but also important for the Carpathian Basin, are a meaningful opportunity for children to relax during the summer holiday, and are becoming more popular year after year. In the year before the outbreak, in the summer of 2019, more than 130,000 children participated in one of the Erzsébet camps. The participants of the Erzsébet Camps can participate in a number of cultural, knowledge, skills development, sports and entertainment programs, where they can learn about the importance of equal opportunities, the values of Hungarian culture and the priorities and priorities of community organisation. [[18.20]] The Erzsébet program includes, in addition to the sleep-in and day-care camps, recreation and holiday facilities for families, as well as pensioners. Within the framework of the Erzsébet programme, over the last eight years, one and a half million Hungarians have had a holiday opportunity. Erzsébet, who maintained the Erzsébet camps for children in the Carpathian Basin, became the property of the former Csillebérc pioneer camp in Budapest for the further development of the children's and youth camps. The expansion of the campsite opens up even more opportunities for camping children, school and youth groups. The goal is clearly to allow as many children as possible to participate in the Erzsébet camps, because for many disadvantaged children, these camps are the biggest and most enjoyable holiday of the year, where they can create community and experience, lifelong experiences, alongside friends. The bill also contains provisions on individual trustees and amends several related laws at legislative harmonisation points. What I would like to point out, Mr Secretary of State has already spoken about it, in postal and other laws, the concept of cutting red tape. Any effort to reduce administrative time, the amount of paper and the various cases in the interests of the Hungarian people, I think it is certainly a welcome direction, and we need to proceed on the path that the government set for itself 11 years ago: the fewer cases we need personal presence, the less paper we need, the fewer handlers we need to go through to deal with a matter. Therefore, cutting red tape is an absolute objective to support. In view of all of this, since Mr Secretary of State has made full reference to the bill, I have considered these points to be remarkable and important. The KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-155	Thank you. The next lead speaker is Gyula Molnár, who is the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be long, because at this late hour, maybe we don't have to get into every detail of the 13 proposals here, just let me put it to you that you're always thinking about how this works in the ministry or in the government. So there's one of these executive meetings where all the department heads are called together, and they're telling everyone to pull out every drawer they can find, see if there's any other sloppy suggestions that we haven't put in a package like this in some way, so let's get this together, bring it in, and then let's see what we can get out of this? In a previous comment, I said that in these 31 legislative proposals, which you presented here under the cover of night a few days ago, we obviously know that tomorrow is the most important day, tomorrow is the day that you will take the necessary step that you think, for some reason, must be taken before the elections. And then the opposition always wonders which of the other legislative proposals in which they in some way hide communication panels that can then be drawn out in cases that are obviously obvious to ordinary people, even to the naked eye. To tell you the truth, maybe your wallet got a job like this, and that's what they picked up. When I became mayor in my own district, I did the same thing, only the other way around, that's what you have to do at the beginning. So you go into a new place, and then you say that if you feel that something wasn't well regulated in the previous period, if you feel that for some reason they didn't get through the leadership at that time, take them out now, I'm ready to look at everything. I don't understand why you're doing this goodbye. So what is the intention to believe that, one year before the elections, general decisions should be taken in some cases that are in fact entirely contrary to what has been communicated or generally communicated? I'll make a statement: I may not be fit to be a politician in some segments, but when I listen to Nacsa Lorince, for example, I'm ready to believe him, but he can always say things after that that make it completely impossible. Believe me that when I read something like this or look at it like that or start arguing with someone else, I really think that looking at the world from there is something that is likely to contain truth. But now really tell me, in these 13 legislative proposals that have been tabled here in this package, what, by the way, is in the middle of the epidemic that can be inserted in any way into a picture of Hungary that is thought to be going this way in the coming decades. Does anyone really think that they're gonna believe that this is all about getting the state out and cutting red tape? ! Well, your entire government, your entire philosophy, has been that you are convinced that no one is able to do things well on the ground, because there are incompetent people there, you have to try to centralize everything, if possible, you have to try to centralize everything, because we will know, because there will be every skill and ability available here. So, I'm sorry, I'm gonna say this again, I don't want to go into the details here, but we're usually gonna say the next day, and we're gonna say that we're not gonna support anything in the next period that, in any way, brings them out of the state's control, from the direction of government asset management, into a lane where it's just a very small step to make them private property in any way. We will say this, and we will not support this type of proposal in any way. I'll tell you one more time, I'll let the others talk about details. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-157	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-158	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. I wish to speak not only for the sake and entertainment of Lőrinc Nacsa, because there is a more important moment here: the debate of this law begins. In this law, too, we must see again, Mr Secretary of State, what I have said a few times, and even every time I try to say that everything that has been tabled beyond the fact that 13 laws need to be amended is actually missing what they are doing. You are the ones who have made the rule that an impact assessment belongs to this, and this includes comprehensive amendments to which I think it would otherwise have been appropriate to put here. Moreover, I am mentioning this here because a few hours ago your fellow Member here demanded, after the decisions of the European Commission, that he did not receive it. Here. Then you need it, and now and in general, when the legislation is being done, don't you need it? ! Or there is, but otherwise they won't show it to us, and they won't allow us to work from the same information base. Abuse of the power of the government does not help, support or otherwise provide us with the right information. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to say in every case that what you have done in this way is wrong. On the other hand, on the side of the Committee on Budgets, we thought that it had a significant impact on the budget in itself, and that this is something that should be discussed there. The pro-government representatives took their time and decided that this was not necessary, while the rapporteur was concerned with state property, the Minister was part of the Committee on Budgets with her annual report, and otherwise with the date set for this on 4 May. Nevertheless, the Fidesz MEPs decided that the big report they had prepared should be discussed in the friendly environment of the Committee on Economic Affairs; they did not have the courage, let us say, to put it in its place, and they rejected it now, so that the Committee on Budgets could express its position on the board. I don't know why they're doing this, but I'm sure it's pushing you in the direction of thinking about what's going on, because it certainly raises questions. Then, if we even look at the fact that the elements that were presented this way on Wednesday night and then have nothing to do with the crisis management related to the epidemic, then I think that I fully agree with my fellow Members that, in addition to expressing our incomprehension, this will further strengthen doubt. [[18.30]] Moreover, the justifications on the part of the leaders of the Christian Democratic People's Party will become transparent, which will immediately fail when we heard what is happening in Fonyódliget in our fellow Member, Ádám Steinmetz, the other day. Now, what do you think of what happened, that not only did the saving of wealth take place in itself, but it was also supported by billions of forints, and then no child's vacation took place? Now, this situation has been going on for years and years, and they can continue this practice without control, and I think that it does raise a doubt in man or further strengthen itself that this law cannot be supported in this form, even if, by the way, I have the good intention of believing that there is a civil society organisation which, by reason of its activities, is indeed to be supported and can be helped in this way, making it impossible, in this sense, to grant such support from the author, the submiter, to do so. So what you have brought to us from this point of view cannot be supported in this sense. Moreover, if we look at what is not only about real estate, but also what is in the liquidation section, i.e. in the context of easing their rules, we have been brought here and tabled, if we also add what steps have been taken this year to make them almost selected, appointed liquidators, I think that in this line of work it is a government effort specifically reorganizing the liquidation market, so I think we can safely put it in favour of KDNP's proposal to create the market, create the conditions, and act accordingly. Therefore, Congressman, if you try such preconceptions and preconceptions, the truth in itself is what we are talking about here, here is the proposal, and not the suggestion of your, let's say, pseudo-problems. What has been done in the case of the National Children's and Youth Foundation in the past, as regards our debate there, I think that we, too, have been right all along, as much as you like it or don't like it. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] But in itself what they are trying to do now, we can go all the way to Zánka, if that is what we want to say to each other here, how useful they are for the children, and of course they should be raised. But it's not just that, as I said, they want to amend 13 laws, and in this way they make the whole thing unacceptable in this sense. I am very sorry if I will not be able to take part in the whole debate, but I would like to interpret [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How convenient!]] I would also like to make it clear to you that Christian Democratic fidelity is not only about flying domestic animals, but also about telling the truth when using such referrals and not by generating a false dispute. So overall, of course, I trust that in the debates of the next few weeks, either in the debate of the law or in the reports, it will become clear to everyone that the asset relief that has now been launched in the name of the foundations, and that it is not a novel technique in the sense that it is not possible to talk about what solutions can be done, but how they do it, I think it is unacceptable, and therefore it will not be eligible in this form. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Comfortable!]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-08-159	Thank you. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the representative of the national minority who has been invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak if Congressman Nacsa also stops. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who presents the first sentences of his speech in ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Herr Abgeordneter Ritter, sie haben das Wort.
u2021-04-08-160	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament... [[His mic's not working.]]
u2021-04-08-161	Your microphone isn't working, Congressman. Hold on a second. [[Ritter Imre has a portable microphone placed in front of him.]]
u2021-04-08-162	Dann noch einmal! Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges, Zu bestimmter Anordnung über die Verwaltung von Vermögenswerten und zur Änderung bestimmter Gesetze zur Verwaltung von Vermögenswerten und nationalen T/15.706 force field. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/15706. on certain provisions relating to asset management and amending certain laws concerning asset management and national financial services. At its meeting on 7 April 2021, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary joined the bill and held its general debate. The bill is 17. Article 2a of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities of 2011 CLXXIX. Law Nek.-Law 25. Paragraph 6 is amended, namely: it clarifies and complements the warranty conditions for the automatic return of the ownership of movable and immovable property transferred free of charge to the original owner. However, before explaining this, allow me to briefly recall the history of this paragraph. The previous amendment of the Nek. Law in 2017 which entered into force on 1 January 2018 required the transfer of the maintenance right to the management of the free property of the institution-supporting national authorities, together with the transfer of the maintenance right, the movable and real estate assets for the performance of the tasks of the public education institutions, but the ownership remained with the original owner. This has also been a significant step forward in ensuring the cultural and educational autonomy of nationalities, but the experience of recent years has justified the transfer of ownership to the maintenance national authorities instead of trust rights, while, of course, ensuring and imposing the necessary guarantees at the same time. Therefore, last year, on 28 April 2020 our committee submitted T/10303. No. 25 of the Nek.-Law, which included Nek.-Law 25. § 6 is also amended, which provided for:. Together with the transfer of the right of maintenance, the movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the educational and educational tasks of the public education institution shall be transferred to the property of the national minority self-government, without delay, but at the latest until the beginning of the education or school year, by reclaiming the ownership of the property to the original owner if (a) the institution of public education ceases without the successor in maintenance, or (b) the institution of public education ceases to exist. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Parliament agreed with this bill and accepted it practically unanimously with nine abstentions. Immediately after the publication of the Gazette, we started to prepare and assist the execution of free ownership transfers in a concrete way, since the previous examples were almost only missed. [[18.40]] The General Secretariat of the Prime Minister's Office for Church and Nationality Relations has developed a general guidance and resolution on the ownership of movable and immovable property for educational, educational and municipal minority self-governments. Thank you, Dr. Zoltán Fürjes, Deputy State Secretary. The National Local Government of the Germans of Hungary, where more than 90 percent of the local ethnic institutional authorities belong, has developed concrete transfer-acceptance contract models, which I have also sent to all the local and national minority authorities concerned. In smaller regional groups, I personally kept information about all of this, along with our colleagues we discussed the issues raised by telephone and e-mail several dozen times, and helped to resolve them so that the transfer and transfer procedures of the property associated with our receiving ethnic public education institutions can be carried out properly. In several settlements where more complicated questions have been raised, I personally participated in the meetings of local and ethnic authorities and institutional leaders, which have always been concluded with a successful agreement, such as Sopron, Manyon, Pustam, Városlőd and several other settlements. At the end of January 2021 and then twice in the second half of March, we fully assessed the situation of free ownership transfers, where it has not yet taken place, and analysed the reasons for this. Allow me to brief you on the results of this survey. In the case of local minority self-governments, the free transfer of ownership affects 69 ethnic public education institutions in 51 municipalities in German, Croatian, Romanian, Slovak, and so in four nationalities. At the national minority self-governments, eight ethnicities concern 35 ethnic educational institutions in Greece, Croatia, Germany, Roma, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia and Slovenia. To sum up, we are talking about 104 ethnic educational institutions of 78 settlements. Of course, it was clear from the preparation and assessment that realization of the possibility provided by law will bring up a series of ground office, legal, professional, administrative and procedural issues, since all outstanding issues accumulated in previous decades had to be resolved and resolved before the transfer took place. One of the general issues raised by most institutions was the situation of the kitchen-dining room, where the transfer of ownership was carried out only in the case of heating and/or cooking kitchens and dining rooms supplying the institution. In the case of cooking kitchens which have been supplied to areas other than the public educational establishment, ownership of the property is typically left or transferred to the operator of the cooking kitchen. The further operation and use of this will be regulated in detail in the transfer-acceptance contracts. In addition, several ethnic public education institutions were required to make land-building procedures, land-sharing in real estate used for non-national education purposes, or, where land-sharing was not possible, to establish an undivided joint ownership between the local government and the local government, or to initiate sub-deposits. In such cases, either the transfer of ownership contracts or a separate distribution contract, the parties have included their agreement on which owner is entitled to the exclusive use of certain parts of the property. The problem of former service dwellings on the property of the institution has been raised by several institutions as a matter of order. In some cases, they were used not for service but for public education purposes, but were listed as dwellings in the real estate register, so before the transfer of ownership, they had to be reclassified first. In several places, the municipal government used them as a tenement dwelling independent of public education. Here we had to agree on the final function of these apartments. There are cases where a multi-annual case has to be finalised in order to release the former service apartment from the wrongful user and to ensure that its function is fully settled. Special consultations were also required in cases where one or more member institutions of the relevant nationality public education institution operate in other settlements and, where appropriate, in several other settlements, and the ownership of the related property was transferred to the maintenance nationality municipality in another municipality. However, there was also a case where, only after the application for land registration was submitted, neither the municipal or ethnic authorities were aware that the land to be transferred was not the buildings, only that the land had been protected for several decades, and that it was subject to regulations prohibiting land conversion. Despite all these very diverse difficulties, despite the pandemic situation and all other problems, I am pleased to report that the transfer of free ownership from 69 national minority public education institutions with local nationality reservations in 39 cases, this is 59 percent, already in order, in another 25 cases, 36 percent, is in progress, the transfer is expected to be completed within days, within a few weeks, and in only 4 cases 6 percent of the transfer-take is expected to take longer, for legal proceedings, heritage protection or other reasons. In summary, it can be concluded that more than 95 percent of the minority public education institutions maintained by local minority self-governments have already been or are in the process and that the free ownership transfer will be settled within a few weeks. I would like to thank all the local minority self-governments who maintain this successful work, as partners, helpfully cooperating local authorities, mayors, notaries. I would also like to thank the government agencies, land offices and authorities that, despite restrictions on the pandemic situation, in most cases the necessary decisions have been taken almost within days of arrival and have been helpful to the municipalities in sometimes multi-stage procedures. This is not the case for the free ownership of 35 national minority public education institutions maintained by national ethnic authorities. In 6 cases, this is 17 percent, the transfer is fine, in another 25 cases, this is 72 percent, it is in progress, the transfer is expected to be completed within weeks, within one to two months, and in 4 cases 11 percent of the transfer-take is expected to take longer; here, too, for legal proceedings, a significant number of member institutions and other reasons. Here, if I may make a subjective comment, it also seems to me that the municipal authorities, mayors and notaries are far more cooperative, move faster, have a closer relationship with the national governments and institutions than the municipalities of some major cities such as Budapest, Szeged and Pécs. At the same time, I hope that, as the pandemic situation improves, we will be able to speed up and close transfers in the case of national authorities and larger cities. Returning to the specific amendment of the law after this: Article 17 § 2 the return of property ownership to the original owner shall, on the one hand, be supplemented by the interpretation that, in the event of the disposal of the assets, the ownership of the property which replaces them shall also be returned to the original owner. On the other hand, it adds two additional points to cases of withdrawal of ownership:. (c) the right of maintenance is transferred to a central budgetary body or local government, or (d) the task of teaching and teaching on the property is terminated. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[18.50]] We agree with both amendments, and we consider it necessary, since, in addition to the termination of so-called basic cases, namely the maintenance successor, or the termination of a public education institution, the guarantees for the original owner will be extended to special cases where, after 15 years, the maintenance holding unit is alienated or if the institution does not cease, but the teaching and teaching task on a transferred property ceases. On this basis, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities agrees with and supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-08-163	Danke schön, Herr Vertreter Ritter! It is now the two-minute speeches, ladies and gentlemen. First I give the floor to Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-164	Thank you very much for the floor. In recent years, the salad law has become a kind of a curse word here on the other side of the horseshoe, we've already experienced that. On the one hand, I understand opposition to the salad laws because, in such cases, there is indeed a need for a joint amendment of many laws and, on the other hand, I do not understand it, because it is also obvious that the amendment of one law entails the need to amend a number of other related laws. In this respect, not only is it necessary, but, I think we can talk about a practical process in some cases specifically regarding the application of salad law. With regard to opposition concerns, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that basically we are meeting with local government, church, foundation, patients' children in the Carpathian Basin for the relaxation, education and camping of Hungarian children in the Carpathian Basin regarding the legislative proposals. In the case of the real estate in question, for example, in Bakony, I myself stressed that these real estates were unutilised and that they did not perform any public tasks, so there was no loss to the State in this respect. Then the Budapest II. As regards district real estate, I stated that it is an important restriction that, contrary to the provisions of the National Property Act, the property in question is acquired by the Foundation subject to an indefinite disposal and debit ban. This is a very, very important aspect. Finally, I think that if we put aside doubt and suspicion, which, by the way, the opposition has to declare in some understandable way, but if we can put that aside, then I think that the bill before us is essentially for the purposes to be supported, and that is why I propose to adopt it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-08-165	Thank you. I will also give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the sake of fairness, I should like to thank Congressman Varju for not bringing the anti-church voices here now, as he does regularly with the properties to be given to the churches. At the same time, it is always convenient for the representative to go, although obviously, if he does an important public task, then feel free to go, but for questions of this type, such as Bau-Bércs Kft., Chinese businessman, delivery agent, where the revenue went, Csillebérc, these still tortured questions [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I don't think you should mention the Chinese.]] We've had no response in the last five years. This is particularly funny that Dániel Z. Kárpa is defending Congressman Varju in this matter. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: No! I told you not to mention the Chinese.]] You never asked him to account for where he went, how this case happened, how the strings were unraveled, and what, otherwise, illegal laws were done, which the court later said. It is also funny that Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát says that the assets, companies and real estate that are out of the state umbrella are not a good direction. But you're trying to get people back into power who privatized 192 state companies, most of them profitable state companies. 192 state companies were privatized by Ferenc Gyurcsány, and more than two thirds of them were profitable companies, for a lot of money for friends. Mr. Fonyódliget's case has been brought here by the congressman, and I'd like to make that clear. Children were last on vacation in Fonyódliget in 2018. After that, he was not able to receive children because of his condition, so he did not receive children in 2019, and you are aware of the pandemic situation, and you must know why a children's camp could not be implemented in 2020. Besides, after a successful public procurement, the reconstruction of the camp started, and it will be ready this summer, and children will be able to camp again this summer. There's no need to make a huge political case here and push Congressman Steinmetz's local campaign. What we're talking about here is a very old fighter... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We need to renovate a battle camp, that's what we're talking about. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-08-167	I will also give the floor to Mr László Varju, representative of DK, for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-168	Thank you very much. You see, Congressman, even the sun is shining here, but now it doesn't have to show light in that sense. I'll give you a little help. What you're trying to provoke me with, you know damn well that there was no court order, no lawsuit, nothing, because I had nothing to do with it. For this reason, you should answer that when you talk about the beneficiaries, for example, with regard to liquidators, what is the reason why 54 of the 90 winning companies have never dealt with liquidation before, but this amendment has been initiated by the presence of a client specifically linked to Fidesz politicians. They will be the ones who, by the way, in the period of the epidemic, can liquidate companies that have been economically destroyed and continue to save their assets. I understand that what hurts you is that I ask you this, and I understand that KDNP is in a lot of pain, and that your kind of friends expect you to help them do that, but I think it should be less bothering for me. I therefore believe that the interests of the figures close to the government, who appear here and who have been selected for the tender from a total of 277 companies, should be taken into account by you. That's why there's not really any greasy crap left, I can tell you that you could get from somewhere else, partly with this proposal, and partly with the foundations in tomorrow's debate. We'll see exactly what you're expecting and what you're trying to get. Now, that's what we're gonna object to when the law isn't passed. But I only stayed here for your sake. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-169	Our next two-minute comment is Daniel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-170	Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, asks us to believe that the wolf is a vegetarian. In the last 11 years, you have shown an amazing amount of evidence in the various genres of theft, and you have a little bit of this hashtag pity when you point back in every blessed speech by my fellow Member Nacsa before 2010, which I am not a big fan of economic policy, but I beg you, do not try to spread responsibility; you have been on the government for eleven years. And I'm gonna ask you very nicely not to mention the Chinese. You are the pseudo-national, pseudo-Christian government that, in addition to the mass eviction of families, is building a Chinese university in Hungary with Hungarian taxpayers' money and Chinese migrant workers. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No, no!]] Don't wave your head, deny it if you can, but you can't. You are the ones who finance railway investment with Chinese megaloan in thousands of years [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right! Shame!]] In the meantime, they also contribute to the development of Kyrgyzstan's health care with a common 5 billion-dollar fund, and they also have energy for Uzbek potato research. What happened to you? You really don't get enough sleep? Do you think that there are enough sources of development in Hungary, that is the right direction, and that is why the Hungarian economy needs to be completed, that the compass is stuck? What happened to you? ! Please, when you use such references in Parliament, think about what the opposition can bring up on this week's news and actions only. We are quite amazed at the fact that the housing and future of young Hungarians is being sacrificed for another crazy Chinese giant investment on the altar. We are amazed at the way they are reviving the Hungarian future. So we're asking you for a little more modesty. Thank you. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre, applause: That's right!]] [[19.00]]
u2021-04-08-171	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, representative of KDNP.
u2021-04-08-172	Thank you very much, Mr President, very briefly. So he asked me about Fonyódliget anyway, and I told him, and I answered. He asked when was the last time there was a children's camp in 2018. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: I told you, in 18th.]] He said to the Chinese university that I was afraid to answer, or that he was trying to talk so condescendingly again, as he used to do with fellow Members, so that I was afraid to answer. Of course, it is not worth confronting the student city with that project, because this project is not against the student city. It is the basis of an agreement between a government and a capital city that both sides must respect. It is not worth confronting one of the best universities in the world with a student city, because neither do we, nor will it be opposed, nor are we talking about projects, but you are trying to do this in your own little communication bubble, but of course that is not the case. By the way, for a student town, a university or more colleges or campuses, they give life and make sense, and the student city is not to be built for something or without something. Of course, the student city is an agreement that must and will, of course, be respected. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-173	Ladies and gentlemen, Again, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary Major. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-174	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm always happy for the champagne debate, but if you'll excuse me, I'll return to the presentation we've made here. Thank you, Mr Molnár, for raising this, because it is indeed a fundamental codification issue, how salad laws are created, which I must say I am not proud of, and I believe that there is no legislator who would be proud of this technique. The codification work basically feeds on perhaps three sources. One is when big, comprehensive laws are drawn up. I and all of us have been involved in this either as a national or as a Member of Parliament. Just to say a few from the last decade, like the property law, the Public Procurement Act, the great Codes on Community Transport, which are actually made as they should be prepared, with a large, comprehensive professional and social preparation. The other and this is the least interesting for today, when it comes to the domestic application of international treaties or EU rules, then we are working on virtually imported materials and must be incorporated into the domestic legal system for this reason or a standard text for that reason. And the third is what you have challenged here today, and you are asking why this account sweep actually took place now. Mr. Congressman, this is not a sweep of accounts, but a lot of concrete work that our colleagues, who work a lot, do every day, goes to the point where they require legislation, individual matters. Of these 13 cases, if you look at them, almost all are such that some specific individual case has been going on for a year and a half and two, and the end point is that yes, but the implementation of it requires legislation. Please think that I, too, do not want to take advantage of your time in 13; let this be a matter of water regulation, let us say, these are specific matters. For bakony guts, I, too, if you like, have been on my desk for at least a year, it was hungarocontrol property, it was offered, it was not used, basically the church asked for the purposes that have already been mentioned here several times, so it was for the rehabilitation of sick children, and the local government also asked for it. We didn't want this to be a local conflict, we wanted peace. I'm glad to say you did. That's why the local government got it, the church got it, they all got it on purpose, they got it on a disposal ban, so they had the right insurance. I know that other cases are bound to turn up at a time like this. I confess that when it first came out here, I was terrified that I did not read the material properly when the congressman brought Fonyódliget up, but then I realized that Mr. notary, after last night's agenda, involved this subject. I'm reporting that the two have nothing to do with each other. What we're talking about is Chillebérc. Here again, allow me to dig up knowledge from my own past. For two cycles, the XII. I was an individual representative of the district of Hegyvidék, and we received Csille's hire after several government-cycle litigation and court proceedings. So it wasn't an ad hoc idea, it was a decade-old or maybe even a longer procedure to complete. So it wasn't some kind of acquisition, it was based on a court judgment that was hard and hard to deal with in several rounds. Ladies and gentlemen, The other cases, almost all of them, are the result of a particular professional process, a specific professional case, a continuation, so it is not a sweep of things. Again, I am not proud of the technical solution either, but in order to ensure individual cases and continuous work, these are necessary at the moment. Let it be, I say, whether it's the renovation of a property or to say something you didn't raise, but, for example, the sale of return materials, which raises a lot of problems in everyday life, it's regulation. I'm just saying, as an example, this broken brick through mart asphalt is interesting, so I'm telling you, it covers a lot of things until the driftwood we recovered from the Danube is used. There are specific matters, and in the end, we need legal provisions, so we're gonna bring them here, and we're gonna trust your wisdom to accept them or reject them. Or even a very significant regulation of post administration issues or of the Posta regarding unfair additional burden. Please remember that Magyar Posta is one of the largest employers in the country. It doesn't matter how the Hungarian state can legally and in accordance with EU rules ensure the livelihood of tens of thousands of people. Maybe I shouldn't have done 13 because it's really an unfortunate number, maybe. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The numerology at the Hungarian National Bank... Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik.]] That this is the cause of the problem, but please read it again, see that all 13 are the result of a specific process, a professional process that is timely and only possible by law. In the hope of all this, I would like to thank my pro-government colleagues for their support, and I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members to read it once again, and, if they think so, to support these proposals. Mr President, I thank you for your patience and the attention of my fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the publication of the Geneva Act on Designations of Origin and Geographical Indications of the Lisbon Agreement and the Annex XI of 1997 on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications follows. joint general debate on the draft law amending the law until closure. Government proposals T/15698. and T/15702 available on the parliamentary IT network. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[19.10]]
u2021-04-08-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our agenda contains two closely linked legislative proposals, the common denominator of the two legislative proposals is a collective expression: a geographical indication. Like trademarks, geographical indications are systematically part of an area of intellectual property rights, industrial property rights. The similarity of trade marks and geographical indications is shown by the common feature in their intended purpose: certification of a characteristic of a particular product, such as its origin or quality. Our country is traditionally rich in high-quality and well-known agricultural and craft products. There is also an important economic interest in ensuring effective legal protection of designations of origin and geographical indications for these products with as wide geographical scope as possible. Currently, 28 Hungarian designations of origin are protected internationally, such as Herend porcelain or Halas lace. Of these 20 designations of origin for iconic products in the domestic agricultural sector have been registered. These include Szeged or Kalocsai spice pepper, Tokaj or Lake Balaton wine, or Kecskemét peach brandy, Satmar plum brandy or Eger black cherry brandy. With regard to Hungary, the protection of geographical indications is based on three systems which operate side by side and are complementary, sometimes excluding each other. These are national, EU and international protection. It is necessary to look briefly at the international and EU protection system, as this is the context of T/15698. The objective of the proposal is to recognise the Geneva text of the Lisbon Agreement on designations of origin and geographical indications or, in short, the mandatory scope of the Geneva text and its publication. The Lisbon Agreement on the protection and international registration of designations of origin is an agreement managed by the World Intellectual Property Organisation, WIPO. Currently, 30 States are party to this Treaty, including seven Member States of the European Union, including Hungary. The European Union itself is not a party to the Lisbon Agreement, as only States can join it. The international system of notification and registration, which is also called the Lisbon system, began in 2008 in the management of WIPO. The revision of the Lisbon Agreement followed three fundamental objectives: to establish an international registration system open to all geographical indications, to allow intergovernmental organisations such as the accession of the European Union, to adopt more modern procedural provisions for the international registration of geographical indications. On 20 May 2015, the diplomatic meeting convened for the revision of the Lisbon Agreement adopted the Geneva text for the modernisation of the Agreement, which Hungary signed on 21 May 2015. In the field covered by the Geneva text, the European Union has exclusive competence and has had to join and become a contracting party to the Geneva text in order to exercise its competence properly. On 26 November 2019 the EU deposited its instrument of accession with WIPO. In the autumn of 2019 the Council of the European Union unanimously adopted a decision on the accession of the European Union to the Geneva text. This Council Decision authorised Member States to ratify or accede to the Geneva text in parallel with the EU and in the EU's interests, while fully respecting the exclusive competences of the EU. In fact, there were two important reasons for this: on the one hand, to preserve the priority date for designations of origin registered under the Lisbon Agreement from the seven EU Member States which are parties to the Lisbon Agreement in order to ensure continuity of law and, on the other hand, to ensure the EU's right to vote in the general assembly of the Lisbon Union. In conclusion, the existing protection of Hungarian agricultural and craft products through the international system of WIPO justifies Hungary's ratification of the Geneva text in the Lisbon Union on the basis of the mandate of the Council decision on the accession of the EU to the Geneva text. The other, T/15702. The purpose of bill No XI of 1997 on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications Amendment of law to ensure that Hungary ensures the implementation of the Geneva text in the previous part of my speech, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the EU regulation on the protection of spirits. Dear House, The proposal substantially amends the rules of procedure for international notifications, which also comply with EU law. In the future, the National Intellectual Property Office will only allow for the international notification of non-agricultural products, and protection will only exist in those countries which are parties to the Lisbon Agreement but not in the Geneva text. Specific rules apply to international registration under the Lisbon Agreement and the Geneva text. In addition, the proposal is the Law on the Protection of Trade Marks and Geographical Indications XVII/A. It shall make the necessary amendments to Regulation (EU) No 2019/787. It shall apply from 8 June 2019 in relation to the rules on geographical indications, while the additional rules shall apply in the Member States from 25 May 2021. It repeals the relevant provisions of the previous Community Regulation adopted in 2008. Under the new Regulation, geographical indications for spirit drinks can only be protected by the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, The timing of ratification of the Geneva text is affected by the fact that the European Commission brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union on 17 January 2020 requesting the partial annulment of the previously mentioned Council decision on the basis of which the accession was based. If the court in Luxembourg upholds the Commission's application for an action, the national ratification could no longer take place after the judgment. This would have the consequence that Hungary could not, in its own right, request the international registration of the designations of origin currently included in the international register under the Geneva text, thereby losing our traditional and high-value designations of origin and their so-called priority days. The registration of Hungarian designations of origin in accordance with the Geneva text, thus ensuring the continuity of their protection in the States Parties to the Lisbon Agreement, justifies both the Hungarian intervention in the case pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union and the early ratification of the Geneva text. Dear House, The above-mentioned legislative proposals are necessary for ratification of the Geneva text and for an appropriate amendment to the relevant domestic legislative environment, thus protecting domestic and invaluable designations of origin, which has been put at risk by the European Court of Justice proceedings brought by the European Commission against the Council of Member States. I therefore ask you to support both legislative proposals with your vote. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-08-177	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor first to Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, please.
u2021-04-08-178	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the first international agreements on the protection of intellectual property is the Paris Convention of 1883 on the protection of industrial property, followed by a number of further steps. Such an international treaty, which is the most universally defining of current relations, is a modernised Lisbon agreement concluded in 1958, including in 1967 and subsequently amended in 1979, with the text being maintained by the so-called WIPO, a specialized institution of the United Nations, the World Intellectual Property Organisation. The World Intellectual Property Organisation set up a working group to update the agreement in 2008, the work of which resulted in the text adopted by the diplomatic conference in Geneva in May 2015, which is the result of the bill, perhaps a strange or particularly sounding title for the first reading, which is, however, the text of the Lisbon Agreement in Geneva. This review in 2015 had two main objectives and results. On the one hand, the renewal of the system of registration of geographical indications and, on the other, the possibility for intergovernmental organisations to accede to this Agreement. The European Union delegation already attended the 2015 conference and joined the Convention in autumn 2019. [[19.20]] The Geneva text shall enter into force after the fifth eligible party has sent its instrument of accession or ratification. Therefore, this was done on 26 February 2020 with the accession of the European Union. Under Union law, the European Union has exclusive competence in the field covered by the Geneva text, including interpretation of the text of the Convention. Since the European Union has already published the Convention in the languages of the Member States, there is no derogation from the Hungarian language translation used there. Ladies and gentlemen, The recognition of the mandatory scope of the Geneva text in the context of harmonisation of laws must necessarily entail the application of Article XI of 1997 on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications. The amendment to the Act, which we have just heard Mr Secretary of State talking about, is also an amendment to the Act. This law contains national rules on the protection of geographical indications, rules on the national registration of designations of origin and of designations of origin in the European Union. Therefore, T/15698 on the publication of the Geneva text. Together with bill No XI of 1997 we have to discuss T/1570. The Commission also made a number of proposals. The purpose of this is to amend the law on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications in order to ensure that both the Geneva text and the 2019/787. Any amendments necessary for the implementation of the relevant provisions of Regulation No 1 of the European Union may be introduced. As regards the bill, the updating of the rules on the procedure of international notifications is a significant change in the scope of the proposal, in which the provisions of Article 17 of Regulation (EU) 2019/1753 apply. The provisions of the EU Regulation and its implementing acts shall also apply mutatis mutandis. In the future, the National Intellectual Property Office will only allow for the international notification of non-agricultural products, and protection will only exist in those countries which are parties to the Lisbon Agreement but not in the Geneva text. Dear Parliament, The proposal also makes the necessary amendments, which I mentioned earlier, 2019/787. After the entry into force of the European Union Regulation. Under the new Regulation, geographical indications for spirit drinks can only be protected by the Union. It should be pointed out that the proposal was discussed with social organisations and strategic partners such as the Hungarian Association for the Protection of Industrial Law, Copyright, the Hungarian Trademark Association, the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives and Producers or the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy. Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment to the Trade Marks and Geographical Indications Act aims to comply with our obligations under international law and in accordance with our obligations in the European Union. In view of this, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal. I would also ask you to support the amendment by your votes after the debate has taken place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-179	Thank you. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-180	Mr President, Dear House, From a consumer point of view, we may be a little further ahead than in the first cycle after 2010, when the governing parties submitted a proposal for a Hungarian trade mark, whereby, for example, the liver sausage would have fallen out of the range of Hungarian products, since it also contains imports, but Coca-Cola would have remained among the Hungarian products, since its raw materials include, say, water over 90 percent of Hungarian raw materials. Fortunately, this unlucky regulation was then eliminated and improved, and we may be a little further in. But we also need to see that, under the trademark of Hungarian product, for very, very long years, Peruvian, Indonesian or Turkish types of goods have appeared on the Hungarian shelves, so a consumer Őskáus has developed in this area, and although regulatory experiments have taken place, let's say we still have serious problems with those who, say, want to know for sure whether the product put into the basket is Hungarian or not Hungarian. I confess that I have a great deal of national romance, and I am very focused on always bringing home domestic fruit and vegetables from among those that are at least indigenous. That's what I'm trying to encourage. At the same time, I see that in large shopping malls, it is not always possible to determine precisely whether a kind of goods is Hungarian or foreign, or if it is simply the production of the supply, if, say, I am looking for Hungarian peppers, even if I know it is expensive, I cannot find it, because the given network simply does not hold it. So there is much to be done to improve in this area, and the consequence of that is the quality, reliability of the trademarks and instruments of the various geographical indications that come before us. So we have to say that we are still living in a consumer Őskáus, but let us not argue that there has been repair opportunities. Otherwise, I have no serious reason to dispute the package before us, since it is an implementation. Here, the government of Hungary is trying to comply with the guidelines set by international organisations and treaties, even if it tampers with me in person, if only the EU or the Lisbon system can be used for certain kinds of goods. In my view, national legislation is still a little incomplete, but let us not discuss the possibility that this will be improved in the near future. Again, we're not dealing with the package in front of us. I've read it three times, and I couldn't find a more serious atomic bomb in this. I may have been careless, but it was already suspicious that there was nothing suspicious about it, which is why I read it three times, but the thing is, it's not this package. We would like to see an improvement at a systemic level, and to get to the point where Hungarian product labelling can be used for what is not only a domestic product, but also a truly safe Hungarian product, which is very important for families raising children. To get a little kick out of the general debate, not to abuse the framework of the agenda, I would prefer that the family allowance be doubled, provided on a family card, which could finance basic food and child-rearing articles, so that as many Hungarian products as possible could be brought home from the basket. But what we need to say is that we should finally get to the system level so that anyone who goes into a supermarket can see what kind of goods he brings home from or from a country of origin, and it would be at least as important to be able to obtain a guaranteed Hungarian product. We've been arguing over 80:20, 70:30 for years. Obviously, I would much rather see a domestic chain of stores bombing us only with domestic products, and we should choose between them. Yet, the reality is that we are at the mercy of a range of foreign-owned supermarket chains. Obviously, they take consumer preferences into account, and I don't want this to be taken away, but on the basis of my personal experience, I have found that if I want to get a domestic product, this is still a serious problem in many cases. I therefore hope that there will be a substantial change in the whole area at systemic level in the near future. Thank you for your attention and patience, Mr President.
u2021-04-08-181	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-182	Thank you very much. The moment is rare when I agree with Dániel Z. Carpathian for four and a half minutes. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Write it down!]] I don't think there's gonna be any more examples today, but I just did. I agree with the need to help regulate the appearance of Hungarian products, the visibility of Hungarian products, and the regulation that creates completely clean relations of origin. I think that and that, Mr President, has also said that steps have been taken in this direction. In connection with the fact that there is a special trademark for Hungarian products, domestic products or domestic products, and there is already such a product, there is obviously no way the packers can solve this either, to say this, on a giant A/4 paper, so you have to be considerate; as everyone has already tried to remove, say, a tomato sauce from the shelf and take off spicy tomato sauce, because it only had tomato sauce written on it, and the leftover was with a small letter. So it must be thoughtful, but that is why I think that politicians also have a role to play, that domestic producers, domestic markets, and many new markets are being built by the government at these times. Minister Varga has announced several times, the work has already started in several places, and it has also been delivered somewhere to give Hungarian consumers good quality food, vegetables, fruit, meat and bakery products. This is why, in addition to or instead of wholesale chains, smaller markets and smaller shops can be preferred, where there is a greater chance and a higher percentage of Hungarian products can be found, made from Hungarian raw materials and Hungarian labour force in Hungary. I think we're all doing it now, even during the plague. Take home! A campaign, I think, can be regarded as a successful campaign both in social media and in real life, as we have encouraged consumers, by example, to choose the products sold to domestic producers through retail chains or markets in this difficult situation; by the way, we do not ask for such a thing as to say, give off quality, because we are talking about excellent goods. Food produced by Hungarian producers is usually of high quality. So I totally agree with that. [[19.30]] The Secretary of State said the essence of the bill before us, since the Lisbon agreement on protection of designations of origin and international registration is an agreement governed by the World Intellectual Property Organisation. A working group was set up in 2008 for the further development and revision of the Lisbon Agreement, which adopted the text at a diplomatic meeting convened in Geneva on 20 May 2015. The text in Geneva was signed by Hungary on 21 May 2015. Accordingly, the purpose of this proposal is to recognise, on the one hand, the mandatory scope of the Geneva text and, on the other hand, to publish it after recognition. The adoption of the two pieces of legislation before us is therefore necessary in order to ensure that Hungary meets its international commitments, to announce the amendment of the Lisbon Agreement with the Geneva text, as well as the related domestic and EU amendments and legislative harmonisation tasks, and, of course, the KDNP fraction will support the two legislative proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-183	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Gyula Molnár, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-08-184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, God forbid at a moment like this, when an angel passes through the sky, and Dániel Z. Carpathian and Lőrinc Nacsa agree with each other. [[Defiance.]] It would be very, very inappropriate. Moreover, in studying this, one can only say that all that has been said here, the vast amount of wisdom, indeed, is true, and it is a pity that there is a proposal that the Secretary General of State Fónagy is no longer here, who has missed it on the previous agenda, we support it on our part, and we are glad that this kind of peace has been concluded here. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-185	Thank you so much. I now give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-08-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What can I say now? They've already told me everything professionally and in terms of mood. Obviously, DK, as the most European party, can not have any other attitude towards a situation where we join and announce something in which countries, Western European countries have already agreed, did, developed a system, and is good for Hungary, and good for Hungarian goods, then it is natural that our party supports both of these bill proposals. The details have been explained, Mr. Secretary, and the speakers before me, I don't want to drag this on or delay it. Let us have a little critical remark. The second bill, if you like, details the Hungarian procedure, how this will happen, how we regulate this at home. Some or most of this may involve certain constraints or constraints in the framework in which this Hungarian agenda and procedure had to be defined, but, to say the least, this is the 21st. Seems kind of cumbersome and slow in the first century. To say just a few things: a XXI. It is not practical, it is not practical, it is not intended to be easily discovered there by those involved who read it in the official newspaper of a ministry. But we have a similar opinion regarding certain deadlines. Now I don't remember it taking six or nine months to process. It is not clear to us, then I would rather say why it is necessary for such lengthy, lengthy procedures from our point of view to determine when the individual applicant will end and when he will receive protection or protection. So, it's as if this authority procedure could have been streamlined a little. I am only saying this because, if I remember correctly, we have spoken here twice in the last six months, or there has been a bill before this House about how digitalisation in public administration can be broadened, how to make it even better in one area, even faster, and we have always supported it, because this type of ambition is right, good. What is good for citizens and stakeholders, speeding up administration, is, of course, a proposal to support. So I will take this question from this point of view, that perhaps there could have been even more thought about this or the procedure could have been considered in this regard, but, by the way, the proposal is, I say, to be supported, good, and, therefore, to bear DK's vote. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-187	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No further comments were received, and the joint general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to respond. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says he doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, A general debate on the proposal to amend certain copyright laws for harmonisation purposes will follow until closure. Government referral T/15703. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-08-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/15703 on the amendment of certain copyright laws for harmonisation purposes. The primary objective of adopting bill No 1 is to transpose two EU directives in Hungary. On the one hand, Directive 2019/789 laying down rules for the exercise of copyright and copyright related rights applicable to certain online broadcasts of broadcasting organisations and the retransmission of television and radio programmes, i.e. the so-called SatCab II. Directive 2019/790 on copyright and related rights in the Digital Single Market, also known as the CDSM Directive, has become necessary. Despite the fact that domestic legislation already partially complies with the provisions of the Directives, it has become necessary at certain points to supplement the current legislation by amending the Copyright Act and the law on the joint management of copyright and copyright rights. In addition, the bill, which is indirectly linked to the directives, will, on the basis of practical experience, also modernise certain legal institutions of domestic copyright legislation in areas such as copying for private purposes or revision of provisions relating to the formalities of use contracts. In view of the significant compliance of domestic legislation with the requirements set out in the Directives already before this amendment, the bill complies with the obligation to harmonise legislation in a single amendment. There is one exception, Article 15 of the CDSM Directive, which establishes a framework for the free use of digital, absentee education. This was already transposed by the government in the light of the fight against the pandemic in the spring of 2020, first at government regulation level, and then the regulation was transferred to the emergency law. I would like to stress that Hungary was the first of the Member States of the European Union to transpose the said provision of the CDSM Directive, while ensuring that the copyright framework for the transition to digital working order in education was available. Member States have two years from the date of entry into force to transpose the Directives, so the transposition deadline is 7 June 2021. From the beginning of the two-year period available for transposition, the Ministry of Justice was closely associated with the relevant administrative actors, in addition to the relevant social and interest organisations. This is well demonstrated by the fact that, in 2019 and 2020, prior informal consultations on transposition concepts and concrete text proposals took place three times with the involvement of more than 150 organisations. In addition, there was also a direct social consultation in the legislative process, so the stakeholders had the opportunity to submit their comments four times in addition to the ongoing bilateral consultations. Dear House, The legislative proposal for a successful transposition of directives by deadline was submitted with regard to the amendment of the Copyright Act and the Common Law on the Management of Rights Act, in particular by introducing the following changes. [[19.40]] The bill is the SatCab II. In order to comply with the Directive, it defines direct feed-in as a sub-type of radiation and the proposed legislation introduces the country of origin principle which helps to eliminate the fragmentation of the developing European market for satellite broadcasts. The bill proposes, on the one hand, to include a number of new cases of free use under the provisions of the CDSM Directive and, on the other hand, to fine-tune the existing system of free use. The purpose of these amendments is to adapt the free use system to the needs of the digital age. As a new, free use case, the exception to the use of non-commercial works is named to ensure access to works at risk of loss of cultural circulation. This is also the novelty of the introduction of a free use case for text and data mining, with a view, inter alia, to clarifying the copyright framework in order to exploit the most modern tools of scientific research. However, the bill does not only benefit the interests of the user side. In order to strengthen the position of the right holders, it shall ensure, by supplementing the rules on the obligation to provide information already in force in the Copyright Act, that each author is informed at least on an annual basis of the method of the copyright-relevant uses affected by the licence or the transfer of his rights, of the revenue generated and of the fees payable. In order to ensure quality journalism and citizens' access to information, the amendment introduces a new so-called neighbouring right for press publishers, which gives publishers exclusive rights to online use of publications. The legal institution would also like to respond to the problem that, while the classic revenue from press spending seems to be fading, these revenues from online use have not been adequately compensated. The new neighbouring law is intended to address this financing problem, which is expected to have a positive impact on media pluralism. In addition, it should be stressed that the proceeds from the exercise of press rights will also benefit properly the authors of press products. Perhaps the most important innovation of the CDSM Directive is the re-regulation of the liability system of so-called content-sharing service providers, which was necessary for the fact that many technos, such as the market-leading video-sharing platform, are receiving very high revenues as a sharing of copyright works, while those revenues are either not or not being properly shared. The amendment obliges large online platforms dealing with the sharing of copyright content to pay right to the right holders in exchange for the content used in their services, often posted by the users of their services, thereby ensuring the participation of technologists in social responsibility to the extent appropriate to their position. The bill helps the interests of rightholders not only by reforming the licensing system but also by making screening mechanisms for unauthorized content mandatory. However, the amendment also guarantees freedom of expression by ensuring that the relevant free use can be exercised in accordance with the CDSM Directive. Dear House, The adoption of this bill is necessary both in order to comply with the obligations arising from the law of the European Union and in order to modernise domestic copyright legislation. The adoption of the amendment is also essential in order to consolidate the responsibility of large online platforms for uploading illegal content and to strengthen the fair remuneration and negotiating rights of authors and neighbouring rights holders. The adoption of the bill contributes to the exploitation of the benefits of the new digital age and ultimately to the re-tuning of the balance between right holders and users in line with the challenges of the digital age. I therefore ask you to support the bill with your vote. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-189	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-190	Thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The European Commission published the Digital Single Market Strategy for Europe in 2015 to ensure that Europe's economy, industry and society can take full advantage of the new digital era. The strategy is an integral part of the EU Digital Europe project, as well as the development of electronic solutions and related data processing and cross-border digital services. Among other things, the strategy envisages the creation of a modern and more European copyright framework for which two directives have been adopted. On the one hand, the Directive laying down rules for the exercise of copyright and copyright related rights applicable to certain online broadcasts of broadcasting organisations and the retransmission of television and radio programmes and, on the other hand, the Directive on copyright and related rights in the Digital Single Market. Dear House, The primary objective of this bill is to transpose the provisions of these two directives into national law. With regard to the current domestic legislation, the copyright law and the law on the joint management of copyright and copyright rights already partially comply with the provisions of the Directives, but at some points it has become necessary to supplement the legislation in order to ensure proper transposition of the directives. The secondary objective of the bill is to introduce amendments that are either indirectly linked to the transposition of directives or based on practical experience of applying copyright rules, such as copying for private purposes and modernising the rules of writing. In the Digital Single Market, the Directive on copyright and related rights aims at modernising copyright and adapting it to the digital environment. The Directive ensures that this objective is achieved through four sets of provisions. First, adapting copyright exceptions and restrictions to digital and cross-border uses, secondly, developing licensing practices and introducing measures to make content more widely available, thirdly introducing measures to create a market that works well with regard to copyright, and fourthly strengthening the position of authors and performers. In order to comply with the Directive, a general exception and a special exception for text and data mining limited to research sites and cultural heritage protection institutions are introduced in the Copyright Act, and a new chapter is added in which the provisions of the Directive on non-commercial works are fully transposed. The chapter on the use of platforms aims to solve the so-called value gap problem. According to this, the content uploaded by users, a significant part of which is considered to be a copyright, is stored and managed online platforms, while making content available to the public generate significant profits, mainly from advertising revenues, but at the same time, due to the rules on copyright and liability exemption, they typically do not require permission from the right holders or pay disproportionately low royalties. Thus, despite the fact that some online platforms explicitly transmit copyright-relevant content uploaded by users to the public, they are entitled to either not at all or to a disproportionate share of the revenue. The Directive clarifies the copyright rules in relation to the activities of these content-sharing service providers and states that these platforms make use of copyright when transmitting works uploaded by their users to the public and that they have a primary responsibility for this. Accordingly, the rules on the use of protected content by content-sharing providers are set out in a separate chapter governing the use contracts. [[19.50]] Dear Parliament, The provisions adopted to strengthen the position of authors and performers were only necessary in part, given that the Copyright Act already contained provisions in line with the objectives of the Directive to protect the interests of the right holders, for which fine-tunings were required rather. However, as a new provision for contracts involving authors and performers, the obligation to provide information to the contracting party, within which the author and the performer should receive at least annual comprehensive information on how to use their copyright-relevant rights covered by the licence or transfer, the revenue generated and the fees payable. Ladies and gentlemen, In line with dynamically changing digital techniques, it is also appropriate to adopt a legislative proposal to amend copyright laws before us, in line with our EU obligations. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal, and I ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-191	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Csaba Gyure, lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-08-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that in the last 20-25 years, electronics, entertainment electronics, there has been an explosive development all over the world, we have seen a kind of development, a technical development that may not have occurred in five hundred years before, and that has really changed a lot of things. Today, we are no longer discussing the first bill, where electronic development makes it necessary for legislation to follow this direction of development, and, indeed, we can only follow in slow steps the process that takes place in the world, and the legislator is often able to filter out what needs to be changed, what needs to be done, after five years, ten years, fifteen years from now. Copyright legislation was a fairly concrete process, because we knew when to pay, and so it didn't change much over the years, over the decades, and there was a technical development, such as the emergence of television, which meant a new era in it, and a new era came in at the turn of the millennium, when this explosive electronic development occurred. This has also brought countless problems with copyright, namely that by 2015-16 we have come to the conclusion that International Artist Organisation has organised a signature collection in the European Union, and that in ten countries a total of 15,000 performers have signed a petition that has been submitted to the European Union, in which these performers have drawn attention to the outdated legislation, that the legislation of the European Union does not follow the process that is taking place globally in the world, and that the European Union has been alerted to the fact that there is a need to change these rules and that the European Union has taken these needs into account, as not only these 15,000 artists have drawn this attention, but there have been an extraordinary number of social problems that have shown that there is something wrong with copyright. And the most important problem here was the value gap problem. What is the problem that has arisen? In Hungarian, it is perhaps the value gap that could best be translated into, so that the authors created the works, but the money did not flow to them, so there was a gap, a huge gap, and these copyright royalties did not come in. In particular, free-of-charge services on the Internet caused this gap, and later it was subscription platforms that began to whiteen the economy in this area. Swimming, making video, images, and audio material available online appeared, and this happened without having to download it, so it didn't have to be downloaded, so it didn't require a large storage space, but it also had some drawbacks: it needed continuous internet access or increased data traffic, but we see today, the XXI. In the early 20s of the century, the fact that they are now able to provide large-scale data traffic almost everywhere, there is no problem with that. Later, Netflix, Spotify, YouTube and other similar divide channels appeared, making it very great to reach all over the world. This is the reason why 15,000 artists have spoken in the European Union because of declining revenues, since copyright revenues have been steadily decreasing. What was the source of these copyright revenues before that? In the first place, revenues came from physical sales, media were actually sold in physical form, such was the CD, used to be the tape, vinyl disk, DVD disk, CD disc, so these were the ones that made the proceeds from physical sales, a good part of which was paid to the copyright. Then another form of revenue was digital sales, these revenues from the sale of digital files, when the film, the song, the albums, downloads were sold, and also included pay streaming services. Then, the third stage in respect of copyright revenue includes performances, such as copyright revenue for a theatre performance, or income from royalties on television and radio playback. The fourth form of this synchronization fee, which is also small, is only 2-3 percent of the total revenue. As I have already mentioned, since the second half of the 1990s, there has been a significant decline in revenues, otherwise a stagnation process has been observed globally throughout the world and since 2010 and 2015 is the period when a very, very small increase has already been observed. Previously, the CDs, DVDs, tapes, and records were generated by the sale of the CDs, and people listened to them and listened to them primarily by young people, listening to the music, and the MP3 player appeared as a revolutionary innovation from the end of the 1990s, and then the other modern digital media, which were much smaller in size, were able to produce excellent sound quality and had a very large storeroom, so there were huge benefits to these new and modern storage sites and players, and the peer to peer data traffic was rapidly spreading, which again made quite a contribution to the revenues that came from royalties. This peer to peer data traffic spread on the Internet, which meant the exchange of files on the Internet. The first such significant peer to peer divider was Napster, and in seconds millions of users of this service provider were able to exchange data between users, but these exchanges took place independently of the central server, and no copyright fee payment was made, and yet pirated music or pirated music was flooded the world, and users were able to download a number of music material. And then what happened? The copyright owners sued and got to the point that Napster was closed for a while, and then later became a paying music store, but this is part of the current whitening, part of this area, the whitening of the legal area. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The decline in copyright revenues was therefore seen with the spread of peer to peer technology, mainly due to the spread of file-sharing technology, and this meant virtually a musical piracy. [[20.00]] We have come to the point that by the beginning of the 2010s, the number of illegal downloads of films and music continued to increase, with online piracy accounting for 22 percent of all internet bandwidths by 2011. So this was a shocking process, which was observed at the beginning of the 2010s. 36 percent of pirately downloaded files were pornographic films, 35 percent of other films, 14.5 percent TV, 6.7 percent PC game, 6.7 percent software, so stolen software, 3 percent music, and what an interesting 0.2 percent e-book, so this is a small measure. Music is only 3 percent, because music files are so small, let's say, compared to a movie, significantly smaller, making up only a small percentage of bandwidth, and therefore we can talk about 3 percent in the case of music, although this is the most popular goal of piracy, as well as music and films. Then, in the early 2010s, the whitening of digital data was launched in small steps. This has primarily changed in proportion to the number of paying service providers that appear, so as the number of paying service providers has increased, this economic area has also become white, as the paying service providers have already paid copyright rights and thus this area has also been whitened out. However, there were no significant changes before 2010. This is how we get to 2015, where I started, with 15,000 artists turning to the European Union with their signatures, that this needs to be changed. So we got here by 2015, so that although revenue and copyright revenues started to change slightly, important and urgent changes were needed. That's when we got there by 2010-15, when digital sales preceded actual physical sales in the number of sales. There are many ways to whiteen this industry. Many have proposed this. In particular, increasing the proportion of paid users is one of the solutions, as well as limiting free streaming services, making data transfer more difficult, making technical solutions more difficult, and damaging the quality of free streaming so as not to be of such quality. There are therefore many other options for intervention, and the Commission has also been proposed in this regard. The Commission has also taken these proposals into account, and that is why it has come up with its new Digital Single Market Strategy for Europe, which is, on the one hand, the expansion of digital choice, the improvement of online access to cultural content, the development of better copyright regulation and the improvement of access conditions, and the creation of a sustainable market space for creators and the press, guaranteeing fairer conditions. On this basis, the EU Directive of 17 April 2019, Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019, Directive 2019/790 of 17 April 2019 were adopted. These Directives were published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 17 May 2019. By 7 July 2021, we have two months to transpose it into the legal system of our own state accordingly. That is why we have this bill before us today, and that is why we need to amend the copyright law in accordance with these two directives. The aim is therefore to modernise copyright and adapt it to the digital environment. This new legislation deals with copyright exceptions. It sets out two exceptions: there are exceptions to digital preservation and archival developments for heritage institutions, and there are exceptions to scientific and research purposes. It then formulates measures to improve licensing practices and to make content more widely available, proposing legislation on so-called orphan works. Then, in order to strengthen the situation of authors and performers, they ensure that their rights of use and transfer are guaranteed a fair remuneration, which has not been achieved for several decades, so that the right contract position is created. So these are the ones that were constantly missing from the end of the 1990s until 2015 and until today in the European Union. This directive also lays down the principle of adequate and proportionate remuneration, which may at last make copyright revenues regulated. It also addresses one more point, the SatCab Directive, which improves the cross-border availability of television and radio programmes in the European Union single market and facilitates the acquisition of copyright licences and clarifies copyright issues in relation to their use. I think that we are missing a 15-20 year in this area, and it is very important that, in accordance with the European Union's directives, they are also transposed into Hungarian legislation, so that we can finally whiten the areas that have been in the black economy and in the grey economy over the last decades. I think that it is useful for Europe as a whole and for Hungary to transpose these directives, so we support it in any way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-08-193	Good evening. We will continue our work by listening to the lead speaker of KDNP, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Parliament! Mr. Secretary. Our fellow Member Gyüre has provided us with a comprehensive, very comprehensive overview of the development of recent years, whether we look at the music industry, the film industry or the emergence of digital service providers. He left out one of the oldest ways of piracy, because I remember sitting in front of the tape with the empty tape, so that I could press the recording button at the right moment to find the hits of the Guns. n. Roses, and then I could listen to the one song that was on the tape seventy-four times that day. So this was the first piracy, the music industry, to say the genre of downloads at the time. I think that the current bill, which we are discussing here, is, in every respect, generally unfounded, but also consistent with opposition criticisms. After all, the bill is in addition to a 22-organized social consultation, in which foreign service providers have also published Hungarian copyright organisations and various civil society organisations dealing with copyright rights, besides, large tech companies such as Google and Facebook have also been published in this social consultation, which is also about the transposition of EU directives. It is very important that this does not create new rights for artists, musicians, journalists, but seeks to ensure that acquired rights are respected and enforced more effectively, because here many have started to spread false news that they are trying to introduce censorship and have tried to criticize this directive in different ways when the EU directive is adopted. We are not talking about new rights here, and we are talking about enforcing and enforcing the rights that have been made to date in this directive. It is very important that it can also be concluded with regard to the current domestic legislation that they already partially comply with the EU Directive. So domestic legislation was a little more advanced than the EU directive when it was adopted, since the EU directive was largely covered by domestic legislation. There are, of course, points where there is no, and there is also a need for harmonisation of EU legislation. The secondary objective is to introduce amendments that are directly or indirectly linked to the transposition of the directives, or are based on practical experience in the application of copyright law, such as copying for private purposes, a very important concept and the modernisation of the rules of writing. As has already been said in the context of the debate, we can only join it, and the KDNP fraction will also support the bill. Thank you for the honor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[20.10]]
u2021-04-08-195	Thank you very much. The head speaker of the MSZP is Gyula Molnár, Congressman. Here.
u2021-04-08-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Well, I've really opened my mouth here in the last half hour, especially here in connection with the discussions of my good fellow Member. Perhaps we should try to bring this problem back to the level that we, as legislators, need to do here, and perhaps we should really deal with the fact that those of us in this matter probably need to be protected a little more thoroughly, and those of us who create certain content and face up to some serious, larger multinational company, what type of legal protection they will receive. I, too, would expect or would think such a European Union regulation, and what we in Hungary would then add, is that in this digital space, which is obviously constantly changing and changes much, much faster than we can assign the rules to it, we protect all those who create some value. Lawyers are trying to define this as copyright. I think that this must be part of it, too, and that is why I sometimes disagree with my better fellow Member, that, of course, we need to ensure extremely wide access to all these content, so I would not consider it a fortunate direction in any way if we just started creating excessive barriers for copyright protection in some way. It is very important that all of this, which we are going to talk about or what the majority is obviously going to adopt here in the next period, must have a rather effective implementation system, and I would like to say a few words about this. Congressman Nacsa said that when the ominous directive was being debated, there were a lot of people talking about the end of the Internet, because then the idea was that virtually every content provider was responsible for the content that comes out there. Practically, when you think about the life of such a more serious content provider, it would actually be indecipherable, hundreds of hours of material, virtually an uncontrollable amount of human resources. Then comes the forms of machine control, which obviously make what remains significantly more closed and more limited, and here it is very easy to include extremely valuable and exciting content. Compared to this, the European Union used considerably softer wordings in its final decision. Thus, the kind of approach that is likely to maintain non-infringement content and, if there is a subsequent dispute, it can be corrected in some way. Obviously there is a little concern in this matter, and as I said, let's try to look at it with a little Hungarian eye. My fellow Member, Mr Szabó, has repeatedly addressed the Government on this subject, he has spoken here before Parliament, just once Mr Völner, State Secretary, who said that there is no need to name anything else in domestic legislation except a parody. So we are pleased to see that this has been changed a little bit, since this proposal now contains a much more thorough domestic nomination. We also perceive and see this, and more people here have said that, after all, the EU directive gives Member States significantly more leeway than usual. So in this case, it is not that we can only do local, domestic regulation in any way, but that we have a little more room for manoeuvre. That is exactly what our critical comment on this relates to. The real question here is that if you refuse to provide your content or in any way get into a dispute, there is an opportunity for an effective, quick complaint procedure and a relatively effective, quick correction and decision for the service user. We see that the European Union, in any case, but a little as if the Hungarian proposal also chooses the easier way that it is still easier for a content-sharing service provider to argue with the person who produces the content than, by the way, the debate with the copyright holder. So much more so, copyright holders are protected by this type of regulation and EU legislation. We clearly see that for Hungarian content providers this bill does not mean additional protection by the state. We do not perceive the kind of opportunity on which they are either at home or... that is exactly what I wanted to say, it is precisely that the majority of the disputes are not in Hungarian courts, but in international law, while I think that we could try, it could be considered that there could not be a very strong and decisive step in this matter, as the Fidesz government has done in so many cases, so much more to protect those Hungarian content providers who will be in a vulnerable situation in this regard. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would certainly not like to go into the very, very deep analysis of the legal philosophy that I have heard from the pro-government Members, and I would certainly not like to do the kind of historical overview that my better fellow Member has done here. In closing, I would just like to say that I was shocked to hear that Congressman Nacsa is so old, because he looks so young. I didn't know that during that tape recorder period, it would've been just a moment if you'd told me that you heard all this at Free Europe Radio Cseke's László Night. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] Thank you very much for your attention, Mr Balczó. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not that much!]]
u2021-04-08-197	Thank you very much. You've given us a great opportunity to get to know each other's ways. We'll see what László Sebian-Petrovski, head speaker of DK, has to say about this. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Oh, God, I'd like to continue this personal line for a second, if something so personal comes up. When I took this bill in hand and read it on the weekend, there was a Spectrum and similar-caliber channel, where the French film director and filmmaker Georges Méliès's life was processed. I am sure that my fellow Members will also remember, if nothing else, the film of people travelling to the Moon, the whole film and its scenes are very iconic. It was about a hundred years ago, in America, when he broke in or tried to break in, then a Thomas Edison, not just anyone, so to speak, stole his movies, and basically destroyed the American division of Méliès by copying the movies. So there were double movies in the machines, so as soon as they were shown to the audience, they made a copy, and the Edisons used it. I'm telling you, it happened a hundred years ago. But I did not say that in any way to try to trump my fellow Member Gyure's professional history lesson, that I could argue with that. On the other hand, as far as the concrete proposal is concerned, we are talking about the transposition of EU directives, which has been presented to me by colleagues here. I admit, we were a little worried that we were running out of time, because it's due in June in a month or two. We're getting close, so the government's got a little bit of that, but that's the problem, that's the biggest problem. My fellow Member Nacsa preceded my question about what professional organisations would have said about this, because we have received signals from professional rights defenders that they are concerned about one subject, and this was also the subject of my fellow Member Gyula Molnár, and this is where the boundaries of freedom of expression lie, and the scope of this copyright issue and the regulation or even the value cap that many have mentioned here. This would be a long-term debate, and I think that we do not have the opportunity to explain all of this right now. I would just like to say that DK is always in favour of ensuring the fundamental right of freedom of expression in this regard. If it is to be pictured in a number line, and one extreme is this, and the other extreme is a number line between the full and legal protection of copyright and the sharing of different content, video sharing and other surfaces, we are always moving from the middle to the freedom of expression. [[20.20]] This can also be put in the same way that we have just heard, for example, that the parody is burning as an exception, or that there may be other categories where it is not certain that the same rules and rules should apply to the whole area. I'd like to add one more thing to this whole issue. Indeed, we are talking about a very rapid area. This directive is two years old, and it would already look a little different today if it had been submitted today and adopted today. I would ask the Secretary of State with respect that the government is prepared to say that when a new situation arises, or feels that there is a situation in Hungary that is being regulated, in recognition of fresh situations, the Hungarian legislation will follow the new situations, or the government will take another step in the EU, if it is years from now, years from now. So how much do we legislators follow the speed in which this area evolves and changes? Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-199	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for a two-minute speech, and no one else came forward in any other way; this is not an encouragement, but a finding. What I want to ask you is that no one has come forward for any further speeches, that anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you'd like to reflect. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Here you are, Secretary of State Pál Völner.
u2021-04-08-200	Thank you. I did not wish to comment, Mr President, but one question was raised. The comments also show that this is a complex global system we are talking about, so even regulation at EU level is not a perfect solution. Congressman Molnar said that we could launch bold lawsuits and better protect domestic stakeholders. This is also an issue that is difficult to enforce without an international regulation and force field if a company does not have anything here or its headquarters. We can sue him in Ireland or wherever we feel like it, but it's obvious that he's settled there because for some reason that regulation still gives him some protection. I can promise you that if there is any movement opportunity or any problem that arises and, of course, we can find a solution that can be carried out otherwise, we are always open to legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-201	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be tabled on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, It follows that the European Union will continue its own resources system and repealing Decision 2014/35/EU, Euratom of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2020 on the system of own resources of the European Union and repealing Decision 2014/35/EU, Euratom General debate on the presentation of Council Decision 2020/2053 until closure. The government referral is T/15696. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I give the floor first to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-08-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure that Hungary's obligation to harmonise legislation in the EU is met. By signing the Accession Treaty, Hungary is committed to participating in the financing of the EU budget as a member of the European Union. The types of contributions by Member States to the Union budget and the rules on their calculation and making available are set out in a Council Decision. In parallel with the establishment of each seven-year budget, in this case for 2021-2027, it is necessary to adopt it again in order to allow for amendments to the Union's payment system to enter into force. The status of the Council decision is also specific in the EU legal order, since every Member State must ratify it for its entry into force once adopted in the Council. In the case of Hungary, the adoption in accordance with constitutional requirements is achieved by legislation and the publication of the Council decision by law. The decision is expected to be ratified for all Member States in the first half of 2021 and may enter into force in the middle of 2021, but shall apply retroactively until 1 January 2021. Dear Parliament, However, the own resources decision adopted for the period 2021-2027 is different from the previous one, since, in addition to the basic rules for the system of payments, the new decision also provides the basis for EU borrowing for the EU recovery package to address the effects of the Covid-19 crisis. The ratification is therefore also a prerequisite for the European Union to borrow EUR 750 billion from the financial markets on a historical scale for the recovery package, and for the programmes to be financed from it, such as the so-called Restoration and Resilience Facility, to be launched as soon as possible. On the basis of the seven-year budget of the European Union 2021-2027, an agreement was reached at the political level at the European Council meetings of 17-21 July 2020 and 10-11 December 2020. The December conclusions can be seen as a significant step towards preserving the unity of the European Union, while ensuring European solidarity, as grants can reach the Member States where they are most needed. At the same time, the agreement reflects the conviction of the Heads of State or Government of the Member States that budgetary means cannot force political and ideological expectations. The Parliament can declare the decision in Hungary's internal legal system with the conviction that the institutions of the European Union will fully observe the conclusions of December. Therefore, the text of the conclusions may be published as an annex to this Act if the motion is accepted by Parliament. Honourable Members, Allow me to say a few words about the revenue of the European Union budget, the so-called own resources and the substantive changes to the revenue system in the period 2021-2027. The revenue of the EU budget, i.e. its own resources, is the so-called traditional own resources and national contributions to the common budget. Traditional own resources derive from customs duties on non-Union products. They are collected by the Member States within the framework of the single customs union, but the bulk of the amount collected is transferred to the EU budget. Member States shall keep a small part of the collected amount in their national budgets to cover the costs of collection. According to the new Decision, Member States may retain 25 per cent of the duties they collect instead of 20 per cent. National contributions so far consisted of VAT-based payments and gross national income, i.e. GNI-based payments. The new decision will simplify the VAT-based payment rules and will apply a uniform 0.3 per cent rate to all Member States from 2021. The GNI-based payment to the highest proportion of the Union budget has remained unchanged. In the period 2021-2027, as in the period 2014-2020, five countries, Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden, benefit from a deposit discount, on the grounds that the financing of the EU budget is disproportionately burdensome for them. In the period 2021-2027, a new element is added to the national contributions, a payment based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste. The new type of source imposes a payment to the Member States in proportion to the annual amount of waste not recycled. During the negotiations, Hungary, together with several other Member States, was able to obtain a lump-sum discount on its plastic-based payments, as this is a regressive revenue structure. In addition, I think it is important to emphasise that the government and Parliament have taken a number of steps to reduce the emissions of these plastics, such as last year's adoption of a law prohibiting the placing on the market of disposable plastics. The decision before you also provides the basis for EU borrowing for the recovery package to address the effects of the Covid-19 crisis. [[20.30]] The EUR 750 billion loan that the Commission can borrow will be provided in the form of grants of EUR 390 billion and loans of EUR 360 billion to finance EU programmes. Dear Parliament, Let me also briefly describe the economic and budgetary impact of the entry into force of this Decision. It is known that in the period 2021-2027 Hungary is entitled to a total of around EUR 50 billion, i.e. well over HUF 1800 billion at current prices. The Council's decision before you in this period also sets out the targets for Hungary's EU deposit obligations, according to our calculations, the amounts of payments will increase significantly by about 50 percent compared to the period 2014-20. In the period 2021-2027, we will make a national contribution of around HUF 3820 billion without customs duties, and as a result of the change in regulation, we are expected to make an annual surplus of HUF 190 billion on average. This is due to several factors. On the one hand, the departure of Britain from the EU has a significant impact on Member States' payments, since a large net contributor State has left. On the other hand, the total amount of the seven-year budget has also increased and the structure of expenditure has also been changed. In addition, the revenue side of the EU budget will be amended by the decision that is now being announced. During the new period, lower customs revenue can be expected at EU level, and the financing of the benefits granted to individual Member States for GNI-based payments is also an increasing burden, while Hungary will make a substantial contribution from the new plastic-based own resources despite the subsidised benefit. At the same time, Hungary's economic data is improving faster than other Member States, so our growth in excess of the EU average is also contributing to the growth. The positive aspect of greater Member States' contributions is, therefore, that both we and the European Commission are counting on the fact that in the coming years the growth of the Hungarian economy will exceed the average growth level of the Union. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary draws significant amounts from the budget of the European Union, as I referred to earlier, and that the resources from the EU budget are well above the amount of our contribution to the EU budget. In the period 2021-2027, taking into account the resources available from the seven-year financial framework and the recovery package and our expected payments, our net balance can be around EUR 31 billion, which will keep Hungary at the forefront of the Member States. In absolute terms, from the point of view of the 7th, per capita net position, we rank 6th in proportion to the level of development. EU funds will continue to make a significant contribution to achieving economic development and employment policy objectives, but will also play a prominent role, for example in the areas of health, education, the promotion of digital and green transitions and the achievement of territorial and rural development objectives. Dear House, Hungary has exercised its interests during the negotiations on the EU budget for 2021-2027. There is no longer an option to amend the content or authentic text of the decision that is now being announced at this stage; the content issues were agreed at the European Council meetings in July and December 2020, during which the Hungarian delegation also respected the mandate given by the Parliament. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: That's right!]] In order to ensure the sustainable financing of the EU budget and thus the support that Hungary can call for, it is important that we comply with our legal harmonisation obligation by adopting and publishing the bill. On this basis, I would ask that the bill be debated and supported later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-203	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First up, Congressman Richard Hörcsik, lead speaker of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-204	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Péter Banai, Secretary of State, for his extremely fair, professional exposure. Within a few weeks, Parliament will put the issue of the European Union's seven-year budget on its agenda for the second time. I would like to remind my fellow Members that our political debate on 22 March was about what and how much we spend or spend the following year, while the bill we are now discussing answers how we will be able to finance our expenditure. From a Hungarian perspective, our feelings are empathetic in terms of the overall picture. There is no doubt that Hungary is still a net beneficiary of the EU budget, but the European Commission, the European Parliament and some Member States have done their best and are doing their best to prevent the so-called rule of law mechanism which they have forced us from drawing on or using our resources, which is why we have a dual feeling. This is a strange experience, ladies and gentlemen, because we see that all of Europe has been fighting shoulder to shoulder for the lives of people and for more than a year in order to alleviate the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. The common difficulties in Europe raised a number of questions, including what is most important and what is most necessary in this situation. Fortunately, in contrast to the activities of extremist politicians and interest groups, a common majority and responsible decision-makers have given a clear answer to this issue across Europe. Together with them, the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association clearly sees the need for a responsible defense and a well-thought-out rebooting plan in today's most important joint battle. It is therefore gratifying that the Heads of State and Government of the EU Member States have already agreed last July on the package of measures needed to help countries put in a difficult position by the Crown Virus. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that in the debate on the so-called rule of law mechanism, which has been difficult to agree throughout these budgetary negotiations, the Hungarian position has always been clear and consistent. Any new procedure must respect the principle of delegation of powers and the principles of objectivity and equal treatment of Member States. We strongly reject any attempt to circumvent the EU's basic treaties or, without the principle of subsidiarity, unduly and unnecessarily endow the Commission with additional rights. In this situation, I feel it is particularly important that any guidance on the application of the future rule of law mechanism should be given to the Commission, waiting for a judgment from the European Union, as I believe that the principle of European legal certainty is infringed by the fact that they wish to take account of measures taken by Member States on the basis of an undefined, so-called ambiguous concept of the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the compromise at the end of last year, a further task arises, since the Council's own resource decision should be ratified in all Member States after the Heads of State and Government have agreed on the multiannual financial framework for 2021-27 and the related own resource system governing the revenue side of the EU budget. Thus, the present draft law, which lies here on the Parliament's table, is in fact serving the fulfilment of Parliament's obligation to harmonise its laws, as Mr. State Secretary said. [[20.40]] We are well aware that the European Union's own resources are the revenue side of the EU budget, as Mr State Secretary mentioned. The Council decision adopted in December 2020 will be published in the Hungarian legal system in accordance with the procedure governing international contracts under the EU Treaties. By the way, I respectfully note that we must meet our obligations in this respect in the Member States at the beginning of each seven-year EU budget cycle. However, in 2020, as Mr State Secretary said, EU decision-making was different, as in May 2020, in view of the epidemic situation, the Commission proposed a joint EU loan of EUR 750 billion in bonds with a 30-year maturity, which would finance the next generation's asset expenditure in the form of loans and grants. With this joint borrowing, the cap on own resources would rise to 2 percent of the EU's gross national income. According to the decision now being confirmed, the European Commission is therefore authorised, on behalf of the Union, to borrow on capital markets up to the above-mentioned amount. The unprecedented nature of the borrowing operation and I could also say that the extraordinary amount of money to be taken requires that all Member States ratify it in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. Therefore, the importance of the bill we are discussing is precisely that common EU borrowing can only take place if it has been confirmed by all Member States in accordance with their constitutional provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, Some Member States have already published the expected date of adoption and some have not. An example of the former is Austria and the latter is the Netherlands. In the case of our country, ratification of the own resource resolution, as I look at the Parliament's agenda, Mr President, it will be possible by voting on 27 April, so I would like to send a message to my colleagues in the European Union that the entry into force of the EU act does not depend in any way on Hungary. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of Germany, where the process of ratification by the nation state has gone crazy [[Zoltán Balczó: That's different!]] , since the German Federal Constitutional Court hung it by prohibiting the President of the Republic from signing the law adopted by the Bundestag on 25 March. Yeah, it's gonna take a lot of time to clarify that, maybe more than six months. Let's hope so. Ladies and gentlemen, The question now is what the ratification of the common fiscal corner numbers and the level of own resources will ensure, and with this decision we Hungarian Members of Parliament will contribute if we allow for borrowing. The annual EU payments and own resources to cover appropriations are therefore limited to a maximum of 1.4 per cent of the EU's gross national income. These resources include, in particular, as Mr Secretary of State has said, customs duties, so-called traditional sources of sugar levies, VAT-based own resources and gross national income, GNI-based own resources, which constitute the largest item. Here, the plastic-based own resource represents a new own resource, which will be a national contribution calculated on the basis of the amount of non-recycled plastic packaging waste. In addition to other revenues, we still need to talk about the British reimbursement. It is a small fact that the British have already quit, but the refund remains, in the form of a so-called lump sum correction for Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden until 2027. We see that the expansion of our own resources shows compromises. But here, with a slight detour, I would like to point out that, behind the scenes, at least for me, the direction is that many proposals are being made for the future creation of a federal superstate, the united European states. The aim, of course, is not simply to expand own resources, but rather to share indebtedness, and this proposal may thus seem to be another milestone for us. In recent times, the opposition press has repeatedly mentioned Alexander Hamilton, who is well known as George Washington's finance minister. Hamilton's name is the establishment of the US financial system, and it was in this regard that the then Member States jointly took out loans. So, apparently, the EU Member States are now preparing to be indebted in the same way. But it's just, I'd like to mention that it's an appearance. And here I would like to quote the members of the European Council, including the French President, the German Chancellor and many other politicians, who emphasise and stress in all documents that this disease crisis management fund is one-off and cannot be repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the proposal before us, on the one hand, with regard to its exceptional nature and, on the other, to genuine European cohesion, with a view to European cooperation. And here I would like to note, however, that the government and the governing parties exclusively believe in the work of Hungarian people and not in loans. And Hungary would not really need this credit, but it was clear to us at the European summit that the fate of European integration really depends on this package of measures. Let Hungary not be an obstacle to this! Thus, on the basis of the European Heads of State and Government agreement concluded last July and December, around EUR 1800 billion is available to EU citizens, governments, businesses, to increase the competitiveness of the EU, to counter the downturns caused by the epidemic and to strengthen cohesion between Member States. This, I feel, is a very serious opportunity and a historic opportunity. For this reason, the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association calls for support from the other groups for the presentation before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-205	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of Jobbik is next. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-206	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The European Union has been working on the reform of own resources for a long time, and I would like to address some of this. The Court of Auditors, the European Parliament and the Member States have repeatedly criticised the current system of VAT-based or EU-based VAT-based own resources due to their excessive complexity. As a first step, we would like to introduce the category of own resources covered by the Secretary of State, based on the amount of non-recycled plastic packaging waste, a national contribution. This also encourages the reduction, recycling and expansion of the circular economy of single-use plastic products. So there's a positive consequence. The European Council also invited the Commission to present an amendment to the EU emissions trading system, possibly extending it to the aviation and maritime sectors. What has yet to be considered is the introduction of a financial transaction tax during this period of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-27. This should now be considered how the European level affects Hungary's potential. [[20.50]] Within the limits of own resources, the Union should be given sufficient leeway to cover all financial obligations due in that year. These obligations have obviously changed substantially as a result of the decisions of the European Council meeting of 17 and 21 July 2020. The Heads of State or Government have adopted a very broad package linking the multiannual financial framework with the Next Generation EU, i.e. the Next Generation European Union. In order to provide the Union with the necessary tools to address the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Commission was authorised to borrow on behalf of the Union up to EUR 750 billion on the capital market in 2018 prices. As we know, the loan received can be used for a loan of EUR 360 billion and for expenditure of EUR 390 billion. So there is a difference here, because spending and support must be shared, Hungary's obligation to do so, the 360 billion depends on the country's demand to accept it or not. I believe that the total of the 50 billion that we have brought is the full possibility, which the government can, of course, consider using it in its entirety or not. Jobbik says that if it can change its economic policy in such a way that it will clearly pay off in the economy, in the labour market, in a positive way, it makes sense to hire it. The ceiling for own resources had to be increased by 0,6 percentage points only in order to cover this loan and its debt, the final date of which could therefore extend until 31 December 2058. This borrowing, and this is very important, is included in the document, an exceptional response to exceptional circumstances. The borrowing powers conferred on the Commission are limited in terms of measure, duration and scope. This is indeed important because if the European Union's common common borrowing on the capital market became accepted and regular, this would be a very significant practical step towards a close cooperation that is indeed a federal state, if you like, to put the concept of the European United States into practice, if this were to be permanent. Jobbik would not support this, Jobbik is a believer of Confederate cooperation and European Union. That is why we consider it important, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has also made it clear that this was agreed to be a one-time joint loan. The introductory part of the document presented by the government to the Hungarian Parliament is incomprehensible to me or, of course, I know the intention in some respects, because it would have been logical if there had been a reference to the need to change its own source for borrowing of EUR 750 billion, and then the government is now submitting it for ratification. Instead, there is a long introductory part, on which Mr. State Secretary did not speak, he spoke about the professional part, but the lead speaker of Fidesz began very strongly with this question, and the introductory text also states that the Hungarian Government is practically questioning the legitimacy of the rule of law mechanism. Therefore, I think it is worth recalling the story of this. The European Commission first introduced the seven-year new concept in 2018, and in this the so-called rule of law clause, which limited itself to the following, I quote: In the case of a Member State, a partial withdrawal of the funds due to it will take place if it becomes clear that it is operating poorly in its tendering offices, its prosecutors and investigators do not act thoroughly on EU money fraud, does not guarantee the independence of the courts, does not prevent or punish fraud and corruption in the suspicious spending of EU funds, or does not cooperate with OLAF and the EU prosecutors. Compared to this, it has emerged, in particular in the European Parliament, on the basis of its liberal fractions, not at decision-making level, but, if you like, at the level of demand, that this rule of law is also widely applied to the achievement of certain ideological issues. Then let us turn to the Council conclusions of July 2020. Point 24 states that the Union's financial interests must be protected in accordance with the general principles and values contained in the EU Treaties. The European Council underlines the importance of protecting the Union's financial interests, and the European Council underlines the importance of respect for the rule of law. So, in this general sense, this particular rule of law clause has appeared, but it has become the task of the German Presidency to find a compromise with which this will be acceptable. With its pragmatic nature, the German Presidency has once again reached the point of what this rule of law clause applies, in order to enable the EU budget to be protected if it is found that a breach of the principles of the rule of law in a Member State is sufficiently direct or seriously endangers the sound financial management of the EU budget. So only if it affects you in a sufficiently direct way or seriously endangers you. Many who wanted to use this rule of law to enforce ideological conditions were disappointed, protested and said that this was not what they meant by the way in which the rule of law could be forced out of the budget, according to their concept. Unfortunately, Viktor Orbán and his mouthpiece, Judit Varga, said to the Hungarian public: The Hungarian government is forced to reject the EU budget and crisis management package, as they impose political and ideological conditions on the payment of EU funds. Brussels is ordering Soros against countries that do not want to relocate migrants. Government parties and the national government refuse to become Hungary's immigrant country. All this in the context of the statement that this particular regulation, which can be read through to anyone, was finally adopted by the European Union... and its unanimity at the summit in December, because it is only possible to accept a conclusion, Viktor Orbán practically accepted it. Compared to this, Fidesz constantly claims that it is still an ideological witch hunt. This is without prejudice to migrant policy or family law issues enshrined in the Constitution. Its sole objective is to effectively protect the spending of EU funds. Let us ask why all EU countries, with the exception of Hungary and Poland, accepted this without further delay. Why did Croatia accept it and not see it endangering your family law? In Croatia, there is the same thing as in Hungary, the registered partnership of single couples is guaranteed, no marriage, no adoption of a child. We keep hearing that with this rule-of-law budget clause, that's what they're trying to force. No, of course not. And that's why Croatia accepts it without further ado. In addition, he has joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office. So from this wider region, every country that is an active beneficiary of EU funds, let's say that all countries in the former Soviet region have joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office, only Hungary and Poland have not. [[21.00]] That is why Viktor Orbán did not actually have an acceptable reason for vetoing the budget, because the propaganda in Hungary was completely divorced from what is the real content of the regulation that was adopted. There can be no other real reason why they do not want to accept strict control of EU funds, because unpunished fraud of EU funds means financial feeding of the fiefal pyramid. Let us quote from the fact that the Council is not the Commission, who is in Soros' hands, what the Council of Ministers has added to the Hungarian convergence programme. In the field of public procurement, the lack of competition remains an important problem. The large number of single tender procedures undermines the effectiveness of the public procurement system. The Commission's audit of public procurement in recent years revealed systemic deficiencies. Investigation and prosecution activities appear to be less effective in Hungary than in other Member States. There is no decisive and systematic action to pursue high-level corruption. Well, that's the basic issue, and that's what the government doesn't want, so that it can be reached clearly, clearly, with sanctions, so that it can be eliminated. By the way, between 2015 and 2019 Hungary had the highest number of financial abuses, with 3.93 percent of structural funds and agricultural funds. And you're adding that you're right that a significant part of this is the previous government subway 4, because we weren't free of corruption. And they told me that 75 percent of that amount represents that. That is, what remains, what concerns your projects, is 0.98 percent, and the EU average is 0.3 percent. So I accept that this is 3.3 times the EU average. Let me conclude by saying that Jobbik supports the law on the publication of the EU decision, trusts that these funds will be used effectively and well by any government that will be in the next broader period, and at the same time we want to make it clear that the regulation laying down the conditions for the rule of law of the budget does not contain ideological conditions, but serves the protection of the budget directly, and therefore serves the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian population. If the government rejects this, it means putting its particular interests ahead of the country's interests. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-08-207	Thank you very much. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here.
u2021-04-08-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Not so long ago, two weeks ago, we had a long debate here at Parliament's plenary on the use of EU funds, the next seven-year development cycle, the recovery fund. At that time, a number of unsubstantiated, lying statements were made on your part. Of course, there is much to argue about, but there are still a few things left unanswered, and I would like to bring that up. But I would like to respond to Mr Balczó, because I feel that he has a successor in the European Parliament, Mr Jobbik is an eye of the European Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, who may be said to have taken your place in the European Parliament. And what you have said here, some of it might even sound good if your MEP, Márton Gyöngyösi, did not give completely opposite statements, and acted continuously in the European Parliament. Márton Gyöngyösi says that he demands that Hungary be excluded from the use of EU funds, that he urges the establishment of the rule of law mechanism to be punished and said this in his speech at the plenary session of the European Parliament, because he believes that there is a dictatorship in Hungary, that the Hungarian government is working to break down European values, that is what he was talking about. So what's your former national representative supposed to do? He continues to instigate international public opinion against his country, constantly instigating Brussels politicians against his country. And when you tell us that earlier it was about the rule of law mechanism to look at objectively traceable aspects such as the effectiveness of the EU funds tender management system, how is the payment made, how is the tender notice, the award procedure, and the rest, what is now in the rule of law mechanism? Using Klubradio, LGBTQ, migration, and as a political club, ideological debates are sucked into the political club called the Rule of Law Mechanism, which has nothing to do with the original proposal. There is no objectivity in it, purely blinded by political hatred, and it is the group of those who want to punish Hungary at the head of the Hungarian left-wing MEPs who are working to lose funds. The fact is, honourable Member, that when you talk about this, and when Katalin Cseh says that he is proud that he was the author of the proposal, when István Ujhelyi said that it should be applied speedily, when Klára Dobrev himself admits that last March, April, 25 journalists were falsely told that the Hungarian Parliament was closing down during the emergency, that he was creating rumors, that he was trying to discredit his own country, what is it really about: you would take money from Hungarian families, you would take money from Hungarian businesses [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: From Lőrinc Ripper!]] And you would take money from investments and improvements to the well-being of Hungarian people. The formula, ladies and gentlemen, is as simple as this, because it is that your posted people are trying to reach it every day, and that is why they are talking on the phone with Mrs Jourová admitted every three days, so they are trying to get their mood letters and petitions to international journalists so that they do not talk about being anti-vaccinations, that they have tried to insecurity people in Hungary about vaccines, but that they should talk about taking money from Hungary. I think that this is a low point of Hungarian policy, that elected Hungarian MEPs are working to take funds from Hungary and to speed up the rule of law mechanism used as a political club against Hungary and Poland. In fact, they go to the point of enormous tolerance and the rule of law to call on the court to deliver judgment immediately. They're not waiting for normal court proceedings, they're putting pressure on the court. They don't have a word for the respected anointed warriors of the rule of law when Ferenc Gyurcsány stands up here in the Hungarian Parliament and, as a witness, in the film "Oops," this judgment tells us that we are all going to prison next year. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: That's not what he said! You're lying again!]] [[László Sebian-Petrovski: That's not what he said! You're lying again!]] He told me that we're all going to jail. Then no one, nor you, great defenders of the rule of law, said that yesterday, Ferenc Gyurcsány said that we would all go to prison without any procedure (László Sebian-Petrovski: That is not what he said! You're lying again! Because he said so, honourable Member. This is the time to think about how the rule of law would work in Hungary because now the rule of law works well [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] How do you think it would work? Right-wing journalists should be banned from their occupation. Your suggestion. Right-wing journalists should be banned from their occupation. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You don't have to lie!]] Or the government representatives will have to be incarcerated. Of course, in the name of the rule of law, you are putting forward such proposals day by day. Because we have no doubt that you have joined forces, the sentences of each of your allies are to be considered as your joint agenda, to be interpreted as your joint agenda. It is a question, honourable Member, that you have set the example of Croatia and brought up the Croatian family model. Honourable Congressman, Do you not see a double standard that when, in recent weeks, the European Parliament has classified Europe as some sort of safe LGBTQ zone, it has adopted such a proposal for a resolution, so that only Budapest and Warsaw were included as a bad example? Nowhere else, where the family model you mentioned, for example, is included in the Constitution in Croatia or anywhere else, they are somehow always left out of these reports. It is also apparent, honourable Member, that the double standard has now reached such a high level in Brussels that it is only a question of being targeted because it does not share a political opinion and is said that Budapest and Warsaw should be punished. It is not that they say that the regulations have been examined and that the Zagreb Parliament should do so, that the Ljubljana Parliament should do so, but that Budapest and Warsaw should be punished. [[21.10]] And the problem is that Márton Gyöngyösi assists with this, and Katalin Cseh, Klára Dobrev and István Ujhelyi assist in this operation. And the problem is that a few questions were not answered in the debate two weeks ago. It was quite a time frame, your doubling was accepted by the Fidesz-KDNP faction, so we had a long debate two weeks ago with a doubling of the timeframe, but unfortunately we did not get answers to a few questions. We have not received answers to the questions why, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai, the most corrupt, frivolous and irresponsible government of all time you have formed, has performed so tragically in the use of funds in the European Union in Hungary that various sentences have to be repaid [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] And we were the hosts in the European Union. The honourable left-wing MEPs also did not mention that the biggest corruption case of all time in Hungary is metro 4 where the European Commission has also stated that you have simply stolen 167 billion forints, which you have from the European Commission. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Lőrinc earns so much in one day!]] That your government stole this. This is the biggest corruption case of all time in Hungary. Unfortunately, this was not mentioned in their accounts. They also avoided the subject of serious PPP constructions, as thanks to their blessing activities, the Hungarian budget would have saved HUF 2853 billion from M5 and M6 motorways if it had been implemented on credit. Can you imagine how many people he would have helped? What kind of country building could have been achieved by throwing HUF 2853 billion out the window, because their international capitalist friends and their principle friends were more important! Unfortunately, we also haven't heard of this. They were silently silent last week or two weeks ago about the fact that the police restarted Welt 2000 Kft. about the investigation. The European Commission found serious irregularities and found irregularities in public procurement contracts concluded between 2003 and 2009 that it had to repay HUF 18 billion to Hungary. I would like to draw attention to two personal contexts: the Deputy Chairman of the Development Agency was Klára Dobrev at the time of the contract, and after 2010, Welt 2000 Kft. Where did your manager get a well-paying job? At the house of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Altus. I wanted to draw attention to this personal context. You did not have anything to add that Hungary was threatened by 25-30 percent loss of resources from the development errors of the Gyurcsány system at the time, and at the time of the change in government in 2010, it was revealed that Bajnai Gordon lied about the use of EU funds, just as Ferenc Gyurcsány lied about budget figures in 2006. In the 2010 election campaign, the Left lied that Hungary was in the first trimester of using and drawing on EU development money in the European Union. However, this turned out to be a huge lie at the time of the change of government, as Hungary was able to draw EUR 3.8 billion from the 25 billion development framework until 30 April 2010. We were halfway through the seven-year cycle. Barely 10 percent were called off halfway through the seven-year cycle. By the way, 15 percent of it was a ridiculously low amount. If they had been able to draw twice that amount and we had reached 30 percent, there would have been only enough for the 25th place in the European Union. And compared to that, in the cycle you planned, 15 percent were available for economic development, while in the seven-year development cycle that was planned by the national, civil and Christian Democrat government, 60 percent had already gone to economic development. So the crappy visual investments, tunnel building on the plains and all that crap went to a lot of money, unfortunately not for economic development. Your balance is perfectly clear: there was two seven-year cycles, one you planned, one you planned, and one we planned, so God forbid you ever have to plan another seven-year cycle, because then we see that money is only going to their international capitalist buddies and their various principle friends, the Red Barons. We do not want this, and we want these resources to be used for country building and for the well-being of Hungarian people. And to conclude, I would ask you to tell your MEPs to stop the conscious discrediting and attacking of Hungary on international scenes, because I think that it is the most despicable campaign in the history of Hungarian politics that they are pursuing against our country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-08-209	Dear Parliament, I see what you do not see, who and how you applied during the speech. You are beginning a legitimate and interesting debate, which is not, however, the agenda on the system of the European Union's own resources or the publication of a certain number of Council decisions. Unfortunately, therefore, because you have entrusted your vote with this, I am obliged to draw your attention to the agenda on the basis of the house rules. So I want to be decorated to argue about what I don't read because it's got a very long title, and I already did it once. As a result, I would like to ask you to make your speeches. The lead speaker of the MSZP is next, Congressman Gyula Molnár. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. When I looked in advance at the list to see who was talking to him, and even if they were watching, it was such a midnight time, I wondered what this starfall was about midnight in the Hungarian Parliament. Many famous people come in, Members of the European Parliament have also honored us, and I welcome him. But now I realize, and I'm glad that Mr. President-in-Office has just indicated this to me, because I realized that in fact everyone here is trying to show everyone their own, otherwise well-structured, world vision and position, and everyone is trying to explain how, how they think about this situation. But believe me, ladies and gentlemen, especially now I say to the pro-government people: you will not judge yourself. As you can obviously read on anyone's head what you've just done, your judgment will be passed a few years from now, when much becomes apparent, then the world will do. I think that is the real question, and then I will really return to what Mr President has asked us here to say that this is an important moment. But I will tell you frankly, I was a little scared that the submission of this proposal was being pushed forward, and when I listened to Congressman Hörchik, I understood that they were a little nervous about what the Prime Minister was going to think, and that it was hard for us to explain in some way why we should not accept it, but to criticize the Germans. So, yes, it is an extremely important matter, and yes, we also know precisely that for you, these kinds of resources are the only and possible sources of survival and, in some way, of moving forward. Let me give you a very short reaction. What you have done in Hungary over the last ten years, when, by the way, world political processes were largely positive when such resources were available, you will not be the one to say that, Mr President, and you will not be the one to say so. Because I think they forgot to do one thing to make a truly functional modern Hungary. They have invested much of the money in concrete, carried out virtual developments that will not live the day after tomorrow, often cost more to operate than otherwise the whole system is worth, and they forgot to do what we Hungarians are so proud of, by the way, how that type of Hungarian virtus and that Hungarian capital of knowledge will benefit from in this process. Tell me, please, I said this a few times, and I just looked at Mr. Secretary of State the other day when you were, and I said the same thing: tell me which industry we are not putting together, but we are actually going towards improvements in some way. And tell us how much of the economic development action plan has actually gone into an activity that in some way creates new jobs or produces production in some way. But I really don't want to get too involved in this debate. We are talking about the fact that every Hungarian family will receive nearly seven million forints in the following year. That's a very nice number, isn't it? We used to say things like how, how, for people, it's possible to pull it off. And indeed, in the next seven years, it will be decided that we will be permanently behind the world that is moving at a rather serious pace, whether in the field of industrial development, innovation or other fields, and we continue to believe that it is a XIX. "Twenty-century winkback" We want to cement a century-old economic structure, or indeed we will be able to make a very, very serious move both in infrastructure development and in other areas. You are really trying to cover your tracks, but I think that Mr Balczó has made it quite clear that he obviously has much more information than I do, but there are serious rules for this use of money here, which you will not be able to jump over. I would like to raise one element that has not yet been mentioned in the debate: you must consult all those to whom this money is directed. And let me highlight, for example, the issue of municipal authorities. You know, it's an old obsession of mine, myself, isn't it, I was the president of this alliance at the same time? Yet it is not possible that in this case, too, they think that they know better what they need in a given settlement than the democratically elected mayor or the leaders of the region. [[21.20]] So I would ask you very much not to be like everything else in this case, so that you know the solution significantly better than everyone else. And yes, there really are goals that are set, in this regard, social issues, the green issue, the digital future and the transition. These are all the things that you really need to deal with right now, and you can't, for example, build two-inch lookout points out of these money, but you have to spend this money on real cases. This is where they will seem to be spinning in this rule of law mechanism. I'm willing to accept that from where you're sitting, this world is like this. We know that classic joke about being careful because a fool goes across the freeway. What's one? All of them. I understand that this is how you live this world now, and since we've been nostalgic about the other agenda, there's this classic Cherháti number:, Silly little game, I'm lying and you believe it. There's no problem with that. Once again, we will not be able to argue with this at the level or in the way that they are trying to set this thing up 11 years after those governments worked. We won't know what to do with this. Once again, time will fix them. If your slogan is true that Hungary is the first, then here is a huge proof of how this HUF 7 million per family can be spent in such a way that we actually build the social well-being of families and indeed a modern Hungary in the coming years. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-211	We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now, before I give the floor to the present MEP, Member Tamás Deutsch, we have a two-minute speech under the house rules. Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik!
u2021-04-08-212	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In my speech, I tried to address the subject. Now I have to respond to Lőrinc Nacsa's speech. I admired the fact that you're the lead speaker on nine consecutive topics. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes!]] In some ways, I am looking up to you now, and what draws me from the value of this is that you are not speaking to the subject, but are beating up the united opposition in a demagogic way. Let me just add that you're starting to reflect on time, assume things. After you have fundamentally changed the electoral rule, it is likely that the opposition parties will be on a joint list in the next election. This is the future. But that you tell me that you, who sent out Katalin Cseh, Klára Dobrev, István Ujhelyi... Congressman, in 2019 was the European Parliament election. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Márton Gyöngyösi!]] The Jobbik didn't send me out. He had his own list. Katalin Cseh, Klára Dobrev, István Ujhelyi is not a representative of the Jobbik EP. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Márton Gyöngyösi will then, I very much hope that next time he will take part in such a debate, and he will make his position very clear. What you're talking about is what's in the rule of law mechanism, how they can enforce the rights of Clubradio through this; they won't know, because if you look at the regulation we're discussing about it! That regulation does not allow, but only those violations of the rule of law which I have quoted and which directly affect the protection of the European budget. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] So please note that there is Jobbik, Zoltán Balczó, his representative, there are other parties, and that the fact that he is calling you to account for what Katalin Czech says is absolutely absurd. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-08-213	We will now return to the speech of the pre-notified speaker. Mr Tamás Deutsch, Member of the European Parliament, Fidesz-KDNP, please.
u2021-04-08-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen. We've won, and we've got a record of that. This sentence comes from none other than Lech Wałęsa, who, on 31 August 1980, led the negotiations with the government of the Communist Party State in which negotiations were held and succeeded. They reached an agreement that allowed them to set up free trade unions, and when they arrived at the yard in Gdańsk from the negotiations for victory, to their fellow strikers and demonstration workers within the yard fence, they were greeted with this sentence: "We won and, as partners, were communists, we cannot be trusted in that word, and we have a paper on this. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have quoted all this because, obviously, in the context of the bill on the system of the European Union's own resources, it should be the first to mention how this affects Hungary. As Mr Secretary of State has said, in the seven years ahead of the period 2014-2020, the decision adopted by the institutions of the European Union, which is now part of the legislative proposal on the table of Parliament, on the basis of which Hungary will have to pay 50 percent more than the previous EUR 7.2 billion to the European Union in the seven years ahead. Of course, all this is explained by the Secretary of State, the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, the absence of a significant net contributor, must be replaced by the other 27 countries. This is clearly explained by the amendment of the regulation itself, the provision itself, but the most serious reason why Hungary pays more into the budget of the European Union is that Hungary's economy, the joint performance of the Hungarian people, is much higher and much stronger. Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary is growing stronger and the larger amount to be paid under the system of own resources of the European Union shows that we have a paper on this. This is not a question, it is not a question of a subjective approach in a momentary state of mind, but it all depends on the fact that, under the same rules, when a country's economy has advanced, the amount to contribute to the common budget of the European Union is greater. Would the Orbán government have poured EU development resources into concrete over the last ten years? He didn't pour it in concrete, he tried to use it for the growth of Hungarian citizens. Hungary is very far from being a canaan with milk and honey, but Hungary is a country where the Hungarian citizens could finally raise their heads, one by one. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Sure! Gyula Molnár: Come on!]] Only on the basis of Eurostat data, I would like to confirm what growth is, what a strengthening is, because of which a better performance is also associated with the burden of paying a higher amount. Almost a million new jobs have been created since 2010. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] One million more Hungarian citizens can make a living and support themselves and their families from work. In 2010,... there are people here whose parties, I understand that the common opposition list hurts some Members, I don't understand, they tend to be so enthusiastic about this great rainbow coalition, I don't even know where that disappointed voice is, but there are quite a number of Members whose parties were on the government until 2010. In 2010, unemployment in this country was 11.8 percent! In 2010, almost half a million people in this country wanted to work and were registered unemployed. Compared to this, the rate of unemployment in Hungary decreased to 3.7 percent by the end of 2019 and early 2020 on the basis of Eurostat data. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: unemployment is 8 percent! Dr. Csaba Gyüre keeps interrupting.]] Don't try to convince them that the number ten system in the rainbow coalition doesn't work anymore. These are the facts: a million more people work. [[21.30]] In 2010, the GDP per capita in Hungary amounted to EUR 16 424. In 2019 this amount became EUR 22 806. And before someone did it as an economist, they say that, well, inflation, and so on and so on, that's the amount calculated at purchasing power parities, so that's exactly what it is. It has increased from EUR 16,000 to EUR 22,000. In 2010, the minimum wage in Hungary was 73 500 HUF. This rose to 161 thousand forints in 2020, more than twice as much. In 2010, the net earnings in Hungary barely exceeded 132 thousand forints, and at the beginning of 2020, at the beginning of the Covid epidemic, this amount was already above 262,000 forints. That we can be content with that? Hell, no. So I can quote a classic. No, I didn't. Just please, it's like we're talking about two different countries. In 2010, it was a depressive country suffering from severe economic difficulties, corruption and disintegration. By 2020, this country will have had ten years when it was possible to move forward with sufficient determination, with great willpower. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is growing stronger and we have a paper on this, which is why we have to pay 50 percent more in the budget of the European Union, from which more than 50 billion euros of European Union funds are coming to Hungary, as the Secretary of State has done in his calm and objective exposé, which is typical of him. In this connection, I would not like to say what opportunities this represents, but I would like to recall that Jobbik, a Member of the European Parliament, four representatives of the Democratic Coalition of the European Parliament, an MEP of the MSZP and two MEPs of the Momentum, have spent all their energy for many years working to make as little money as possible for Hungary. He worked to achieve this magnitude, which, thanks to a successful negotiation, was called the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán at the last round of negotiations, he managed to reach more than EUR 2 billion in extra support and EU funds for all Hungarian citizens in the negotiations on the European budget. In the previous years, you have tried to make as little money as possible for the Hungarians. And you were enthusiastic about this from home, and you were on the side of it in every speech in the Hungarian Parliament. Don't tell me, as the champion of hypocrisy in Europe, that there are such problems and problems. You wanted Hungary to receive as little money as possible from premeditated political interests: health, education, infrastructure development, small and medium-sized enterprises, municipalities. They were trying! They said that we should not put our resources in the Hungarian national envelope, but turn them into direct sources in Brussels. Do you know what that means? I don't think you guys have any idea, but they told me about this This means that when money is received not directly by the authorities, governments, governments of a given country, but by direct sources in Brussels, it must be applied for, and the maximum amount of money that can be made available to them in proportion to the population. In the European Union of 27, Hungary has only 2 percent of the population. If the European Union funds are placed in the Hungarian national envelope, it means that 100 euros out of 100 euros are ours. If we are talking about a direct source in Brussels, it means that instead of 100 euros, which is removed from the Hungarian national envelope, we have 2 euros 50 cents. You were on this point. You wanted to take this money away from all Hungarian people, and in the most thoughtful way, you invented the most insane things to do so. And then they have the nerve to come here and express different political whinings that are not true! It's just impossible! Then you came up with those who are the champions of political correctness to label the money that eventually came to Hungary because they lost this fight, thank God to label it so that a certain part of the money will be given to the opposition authorities. Well, in Hungary, after 2019, the minority of Hungarian citizens still live in the municipality of the opposition mayor. Nevertheless, you wanted to label these funds. You continue to report your own country. I would like to make a brief comment on this at the end. And at the end of the day, I am glad that Congressman Gyula Molnár is back in the room, that there are no negotiations. Well, let's not make Christ a clown. [[Noise.]] Discussions are taking place so widely that there is no actor whose opinion has not been asked by the competent representatives of the government. Everyone has been able to express their views, all opinions have been listened to by the government, and this is the basis for the development of ideas on the use of these resources. But you keep saying that there were no such negotiations. But I would not stop here as a third, I would like to talk about this in one minute, but you have come up with a solution that in the European Parliament you supported a proposal, yes, you, separately, Márton Gyöngyösi, with a vote in favour, Czech and Congresswoman Donáth with a vote in favour, Mr Ujhelyi with a vote in favour, and the four DK MEPs with a vote in favour, in a separate but interesting way in the same direction, so that the European Union changes to its own source system so that Hungary has to pay more than the otherwise increasing burden by HUF 60 billion. You have supported a crazy far-left idea with your vote in the European Parliament, which, thank God, has been swept off the table by the board of Heads of State and Government. But to my shame in the European Parliament, it is not enough that they were trying to get as little money as possible, an EU development resource, but they also wanted to make our deposit more than HUF 60 billion. Let it be 60 billion forints more! Every week, Gergely Christmas sheds crocodile tears for ten or twenty billion forints. Besides, the capital will receive 3,000 billion in development resources, a number of European capitals would be in such a dire situation. Well, last but not least, he lied to the rule of law about a mechanism. Dear fellow Members, This has nothing to do with this otherwise very noble expression. It is a matter of noble simplicity that they wanted to create preconditions for political blackmail in the European Union, for which the countries in question, if and if they take a different position from the political opinions expressed in the main flow of the Brussels bubble, could use the means of financial blackmail to take EU development resources away from them. It's such a simple question. I don't even bring the word ideology and the rule of law into this. This provision is such a tool that they want to do to all Hungarians what they did to Zsolt Petry, to give his opinion, and to have the worst consequences, the financial consequences of his existence. Petry was fired, unemployed, and millions of Hungarians wanted to be punished, and they wanted to take away the EU development resources that we have under our law. The Polish and Hungarian governments have managed to eliminate this threat in a hard-core alliance. The law now on Parliament's table is particularly important, not only does Parliament give its consent to its own source regulation, but also forms part of this law is the European Council's conclusion that brings clear water into the glass [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and which makes it impossible for a political blackmailer to use a lied set of conditions for the rule of law. This law, if adopted, will help protect Hungarian freedom. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] All their actions in recent years against Hungarian freedom can now be corrected, supported by this bill, and then taken to protect Hungarian freedom. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.40]]
u2021-04-08-215	He asked for a two-minute speech, Mr Balczó, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-216	[[Without microphone:]] Mr President, thank you for the floor. I do not wish to resume the debate on the rule of law conditionality... [[Intercoms: Microphone!]] Excuse me.
u2021-04-08-217	The microphone, please, put it on.
u2021-04-08-218	Excuse me.
u2021-04-08-219	I'm watching the watch. [[It's happening.]]
u2021-04-08-220	I will not repeat my factually different approach to the rule of law system and its interpretation from that of Tamás Deutsch; I would just like to state the facts; I do not want to start a political debate. The facts would stress whether it is GDP, GNI, that is what is most important to us, and that is what is important in terms of the economy, that the economy is not an end in itself. The economy can be considered positive and negative on the basis of what it helps people's situation, and then I will give you two figures, both of which are fresh data from Eurostat. In the personal, individual consumption per capita, which is accepted as standard of living, Hungary precedes Croatia and Bulgaria, nothing else. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes!]] Congressman Tamás Deutsch talked about minimum wage. It is possible to say what the increase is in real terms compared to the system before 2010, but you have been in government for 11 years, and according to Eurostat data, we are last among the Visegrád Four in the minimum wage, and only Romania, Latvia and Bulgaria are prevented from all Member States. I said this because these were mentioned by Congressman Deutsch, the minimum wage separately, and I thought that, instead of GDP, perhaps per capita consumption is a little more important for society. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-08-221	The speeches by Members seeking a normal word are now followed, first by Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a very lucky position because neither our fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, nor Tamás Deutsch, MEP spoke to me, so I feel empowered to reject a number of ideas in this respect. It occurred to me, moreover, in the speech by Mr Deutsch, that if he feels so bad in the European Union and in the European Parliament, I will end up afraid, he will go to his health if he is so upset about the work that is there. Well, we shouldn't continue, and then you wouldn't have the need to speak like what we just said in this House. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: The electorate has decided on this.]] I must say that I did not think that a MEP was talking about the Petry case when we were discussing the transposition of the European Union decision on the next EU budget in Hungary. So I think, although there is a lot of things that are said here that are or are linked to the proposal in question, that even bringing Petry here is really tasteless. I must say, I thought this debate would take place in the same way as Richard Hörcsik started this proposal as the group leader. It was a gentlemanly, cultured, distingent, factual, realistic, although it was indeed a small aversion to the rule of law criteria and to the idea of borrowing, but I think it was absolutely modest, completely, that Fidesz performed this exposé in a particular gentlemanly manner. I would like to say that Congressman Deutsch was probably not here in this Chamber when the lead speaker of Jobbik, when the lead speaker of the MSZP spoke, because at that time he would have heard that he agreed to the proposal, he would have heard that their fractions were voting in favour, and that there was no content of their speeches that was poignant, accuser, insulting. In this way, a civilized debate that Richard Hörcsik started and opposition representatives conducted, spoiling such harsh, untrue grievances, I think it is not in place here. Indeed, in this House we often hurt each other, we often throw things at each other's heads; in general, the pro-government representatives are at the forefront of this, but when there is at least a proposal for our national interests on the table, and there is a general consensus between the opposition and the governing parties, then please do not come here and step on this fair debate. I would also suggest to Lőrinc Nacsa and Tamás Deutsch that they take a lesson from Richárd Hörcsik, because in this regard, I thought he would speak fideszly, but not fideszly, but spoke as a europeer, speaking as a representative, distingently and realisticly. I would like to add a few questions to the historical processes of the proposal. What I would like to say to the pro-government Members, when they talk about ideological issues, they wanted to put ideological issues into the budget, right, that was the big insult, that they wanted to put the budget's conditionality on an ideological basis, and I would just like to say to you that stealing is not an ideology. Stealing is stealing. You're welcome to stick your head in the sand. There is no week for any investigative journalist from the past 15 years to not reveal this, whether you like it or not, who have not been involved in this, rightly say that I ask you not to give me a nice, brazen, overpriced investment, spending, when someone on the European scene says it's natural for us to give you this money, so you are a member of the EU, and we want society and the economy to develop in your country, but you can't just wait and wait for the situation where you have it in your greasy room, and you guys share as much of it as you want, and you're going through all kinds of principles, you're building up oligarchic communities out of it. Don't be surprised. Another issue is that I also think that we need to discuss our affairs in Hungary, among ourselves, is that it does not belong to the international scene, in which we are arguing in Hungary. We must settle our ranks within Hungary so that we do not give cause to mention our people and our country in a negative context. In this respect, I think that the statements of certain Hungarian Members on the European stage are indeed unjustified and excessive. This seven-year budget would not have been born with such content if the Covid outbreak had not come to its head and suffered not only Europe, not only the European Union, but also the community of the world. We would have been surprised if this seven-year budget had not been some kind of emergency budget, because, whether you like it or not, the inexorable amount of additional costs that protection means in every country, and the inexorable amount of costs that people who lost their jobs have to pay on the side of the European Union should be financed from public funds so that they do not become hundreds of thousands of people on the ground, and they have really put a terrible burden on the budgets of every country, so there is no doubt that these additional resources should be financed from something on the European Union's scene. Richard Hörcsik, our fellow Member, said that when the issue of borrowing was said, they had a strong rise in the need to establish European united states, and that is actually a step in that direction. Fellow Members! From Hungary, a pro-government politician should not be negative about borrowing and issuing bonds when an unwritten amount of bonds has been issued to finance the state's overspends, and we managed to raise the public debt by HUF 15,000 billion in 11 years as a result! [[21.50]] So don't be angry, anything at home when you enter the European scene, and then you criticize the methods that are applied at home? Well, think about it. This is precisely the reverse of what I just said: that we have to conduct our debates between ourselves, between ourselves, and that if something goes wrong, we have to improve it ourselves; then the next step is to avoid embarrassing our country in international space by criticising what is being used as a practice in Hungary in international space and in European Union space. Unfortunately, as a result of the Covid-19 epidemic, the governments and peoples of the European Union have come to the point that there is a need for additional resources, of course it must be collected from somewhere. It didn't happen that the Member States were jumping in front of Von der Leyen so they wouldn't take credit, because we'd add it up to twenty-seven, right? The check always has to be paid, we know that. When they talk about the social development of EU aid in Hungary, first of all, until 2010, EU funds were in real terms equivalent to Marshall's aid, Marshall's aid brought a country of fifty million people back on their feet after the war. This amount disappeared almost invisible in a country of ten million. Neither education nor manufacturing have there been enough money spent to make our country at least competitive at EU level. This is, by the way, a common sin, a common sin of governance from 2004 to the government up to 10 and the current one. So don't pretend to believe what's not true in the walls of this House. Well, let's not put our heads in the sand. At least between us, let's not paint a better story than what we had here. Yes, my fellow Members in the pro-government benches, you do not meet the poor people. We do. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] You do not see the social groups who are vegetating because there is no job near or far away. You're always talking about how many people checked in for unemployment benefits. You don't have to talk about it because it's a couple of months, and it's over, and it just doesn't make any sense. Talk about how many people can't work, not how many people are registered at the unemployment office. Talk about those who are no longer looking for employment, because they have no chance of doing so, and they are trying to support themselves with family benefits! You don't meet these people. And that is why my fellow Member, Zoltán Balczó, is right, that we should not look at the place where income is generated, how well the citizens live in Hungary, but the structure of consumption shows it, because modern people do not have a lot of money, but they are still starving, right? So it is not typical in Hungary that people do not spend if they have money, just look at the structure of the borrowings, and we will soon get an answer! So you must accept reality and rise from reality and state your position within the walls of Parliament. Zsolt Petry's case, speaking of Tamás Deutsch. What did the football player that this man reacted to say? He said he'd stand up for the rainbow families because everyone decides what kind of family he's imagining. I think it's up to you to decide who's gonna get involved in this, and then we're gonna go back to the Nazi world. He made a positive statement, a positive statement, he didn't hurt anyone, he didn't hurt anyone, he made a positive statement by a public figure, a man who was watched by certain social groups. And then there's a newspaper article in which the co-star of this Gulácsi football player and his sports buddy say they're not lucky to give his opinion, what's not lucky is that they're not lucky? Don't be political, deal with football, don't be political. What do you say? That someone makes a positive statement, and that another person has the right to forbid him from making such a statement? Politics is a public matter, and the moment someone talks about public matters, they're political. Well, why would it be a devil's idea to form a political opinion for anyone? Is there a democracy or is there no democracy? So what's your position? A tolerant statement is an intolerant statement, that's okay, because it's intolerance when I say someone can't make a statement. And, yes, intolerance is inappropriate, and it must be spoken out against. And when a person is in a contractual relationship with an organisation where it is prescribed that when and where a person can make a statement, such contracts require permission from the contracting partner to make a press statement at all on any issue, they wonder that an organisation which does not accept intolerance, because it is indeed necessary to oppose intolerance, must be opposed. And let me just say that if someone in your line of work had spoken out against your values, you'd be on the moon by now, you'd have been shot up there. So you're the one who's talking about why an intolerant man isn't his employer tolerant when your entire policy is about intolerance? Well, you refuse to accept that a widow and her father-in-law are a family when you two stay in the same household! You don't accept two divorced people getting married in a family and not getting married, and one bringing your child and the other, that's not a family with you, okay? ! So you're the statues of intolerance and you're asking someone to account for their reaction to an intolerant statement? It was the only justified answer, it was the only one, because it had to stop someone from telling each other how to live. We won't tell anyone how to live. Everyone has the right to maintain their own way of life. And if it's okay in this Parliament that one man dares to tell another to live, of course, the limit is the law, because it is illegal to live, but how dare they interfere with a decent life, whether intentionally or indirectly? ! And how does it fit into Parliament's building for people to support intolerance? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]]
u2021-04-08-223	Other speakers are Jobbik's representative, Member György Szilágyi. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-224	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to one or two things; this debate has pointed out, by the way, that it is now possible to see very clearly that Congressman Nacsa is probably facing a great career, since he is both at the level of Tamás Deutsch in demagogues and misconceptions, so he may even be a Member of the European Parliament in the benches of Fidesz. Tamás Deutsch forgot to list the data listed in his speech, but only a few figures were left out by the MEP. He forgot, let us say, to list in unemployment figures that, thanks to the government of Fidesz, there are nearly six hundred thousand strong, young and busy Hungarians all over Europe who did not feel the very great progress that Tamás Deutsch was talking about, because they were not called Lőrinc Mészáros or László Szíyi, but in a different way, and they were forced to leave the country in order to make a living. These people, of course, will not be included in the unemployment statements you spoke of. Once again, we're talking about nearly six hundred thousand of our countrymen right now. Then Tamás Deutsch would also have raised his voice, as those who Jobbik has been fighting for since the outbreak are not included in these statements, and he asks that the government begs to increase the time of the unemployment allowance, since this job search allowance is not defined for an appropriate period of time in the present situation, and the people for whom the period has expired are also not included in the statistics; they are no longer able to turn to, because you left them on the side of the road, you even pushed them into the ditch, you can't get any income, you lost your job, your job is lost, you can't work, and you can't even get any job-seeing benefits from the state. [[22.00]] Then he also forgot to talk about Tamás Deutsch, since we are already looking at bigger prospects, how much the euro exchange rate was in 2010 and what the euro exchange rate is now, what you said about the euro exchange rate at that time. Of course, yeah, you've done well. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Then it is important to note that if you have actually brought Zsolt Petry's case here despite the president's warnings, which is not an integral part of this bill, that I do not understand: Congressman, why were you not so sensitive when, a few days before that, another former footballer, János Hrutka, was also fired for his opinion, for an opinion that you did not like? This man was fired from one of the TV stations in Hungary at that moment. You should have raised your voice there. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Double standard!]] Jobbik believes that no one can be fired for his opinion, for his political opinion, or for his opinion on some social problem, and that no one can be put at a disadvantage. In a free country where there is freedom of expression, everyone has the right to express their views and therefore cannot be discriminated against. But interestingly, János Hrutka did not mention Tamás Deutsch, only Zsolt Petry. Then let's see, I'd like to respond to Lőrinc Nacsa in a few things. Honourable Congressman, What you said wouldn't have been a problem if you had said that in 2010. Here he pointed back to the abuse and abuse that there had been here. Congressman, I'm going to enlighten you because you may not know that you've been ruling this country for 11 years. Eleven years ago, the investigating authority was ruled, and 11 years ago, Péter Polt was appointed Attorney General, the Polt Péter who works, investigates and manages the prosecutor's office as you please. If you're so good at listing things like that, why don't you tell me why there was no accountability? Well, I would have liked to have been accounted for. Or if they couldn't make me account because they weren't, then why bring this up now? So I think you're forgetting that you've been ruling for 11 years. But I have some bad news, Congressman Nacsa: they'll be in trouble after 22:00. I'll tell you why they're gonna be in trouble: because the new government will join the European Public Prosecutor's Office after 22:00. You will join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which will be able to examine it because you also misinterpret it and state otherwise the path of EU money. There won't be any tricks! You will not be able to trick like you did in the Elios case, I think, where you remember, because you knew that the Union would not pay the money that Viktor Orbán's son-in-law had put in his pocket, so you had him paid off to Hungarian citizens and paid off to Hungarian taxpayers. There won't be any tricks like that. The other is that we will release the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office, which will then be free after 2022, on a professional basis, to investigate and investigate abuses only in the light of the laws. Well, they'll be in trouble. A lot of people are gonna be in trouble. A lot of fidesz, yet inviolable, big dogs will then be in a very serious problem and very serious problem. Because in a normal country, it doesn't matter about political color, it doesn't matter about skin color, it doesn't matter about religion, it doesn't matter. If someone steals from the common money, they'll be punished. We believe that the people who have abused the trust of all of us who have stolen the money of Hungarian citizens, who have damaged this country, and you continue to do so. The reason why there are problems with EU money is that the opposition and Jobbik have a serious problem with EU money, because when Hungary is in such a serious situation in the middle of the epidemic, when hundreds of thousands of families are in a very difficult situation or do not have any income at all, you are not dealing with helping these families, but with various luxury investments, who knows what else they are spending these money on. To mention just one thing: it is very important for you to have the main hunter's exhibition to build a gate from ten tons of deer antlers for billions to organize such exhibitions for billions instead of spending these money on the livelihood and well-being of Hungarians. We will give Hungary good-being and freedom, but this will be very bad for you. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-04-08-225	Thank you. On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, representative of KDNP.
u2021-04-08-226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see that György Szilágyi drew inspiration from Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech yesterday, continuing the threat. It's okay. We're used to it. I am surprised that Andrea Varga-Damm does not know the Hungarian constitutional system as a lawyer, because it is not up to you to decide how long Tamás Deutsch is a Member of the European Parliament, that is the voter's decision, that is my bad news. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I said if you feel unwell, come home.]] You don't tell me how long he's a Member of the European Parliament and how long he's not. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I didn't say that!]] The Hungarian voters gave a relatively strong opinion on this. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Sure!]] What is particularly spicy in your speech, honourable Member, is that you said why Tamás Deutsch brought the Petry case here and then talked about the Petry case for six and a half minutes in your speech. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: If you've been brought up, let me get this straight.]] He told me what an evil thing it is to remove someone for their opinion from somewhere. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Intolerance!]] Intolerance, says a representative fired from the faction, who was removed from the faction by György Szilágyi for his opinion. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I apologize. I quit on my own!]] It's special spicy in this... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I quit on my own!]] Congresswoman, let me finish. It's very juicy about that. But the fact that you say... otherwise, Zsolt Petry said that he had the right to give everyone his opinion. And he wasn't fired because he dared to say that his opinion was that migration was bad for Europe. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I said...]] Because the thing is, there's blackmail, and it's this beautiful new world that you're helping and supporting. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Tamás Deutsch!]] It's the nice new world when someone else thinks about tolerance. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] The dictatorship of tolerance means that if you think of someone other than liberal mainstream [[György Szilágyi: Say something about Hrutka!]] Then they'll make it existentially impossible. Ferenc Gyurcsány... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's what you do!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány said the program: you have to make the right-wing intellectual, György Szi-lágyi continued here. This is your program, that if someone disagrees with your bubble, it must be impossible, fired, humiliated and otherwise sent away. That's what the Petry case says. And if you asked me if there was a democracy, ask me if in Germany there's no doubt that there's a democracy. [[György Szilágyi: Say something about Hrutka!]] It's in Germany. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]]
u2021-04-08-227	I also give the floor to Mr Tamás Deutsch, MEP, for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-228	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I have experienced the signs of cognitive dissonance here in this House for 31 years, always surprised and with a little pity in my heart, when a person has spoken with a grudge, dehumanizing, humiliated others, and then called the perceived stylish problems of a man who was attacked by his own not-so-highly-speaked sentences. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Let's not do that.]] I could absolutely agree that the Hungarian national interests would be good to represent. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We say the same thing!]] The fact is that the united left of the Hungarian Parliament, in right hand, in LMP, in DK-stul, in MSZP, in the left outside Parliament, in Momentum, in the political organization Conversation, has done everything in their power against the interests of the Hungarian people. They worked against Hungarian national interests in Brussels... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You do this in the European Union!]] They worked to give the Hungarian people as little money as possible. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You do this.]] And about Zsolt Petry's case, I would like to say that it is very exciting when a better representative wants to protect 600,000 Hungarians living beyond the borders. But when it's the one Hungarian who's been roughly attacked, [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What's this?]] who they want to turn to the ground because of his opinion, he doesn't want to stand up for it, but he's trying to do the unacceptable with stupid words. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the procedure for expressing an opinion which has been the subject of a harsh sanction [[The president's ringing again.]] Apologize. It's a disgrace! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. György Szilágyi: Hrutka! Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[22.10]]
u2021-04-08-229	Once again, I ask: would anyone else like to take the opportunity to speak? [[For signal:]] Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor, a representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-230	Thank you very much. I agree with one sentence of my fellow Member György Szilágyi's speech: if anyone commits lawlessness, then the law should be punished with rigour, and otherwise this should be a fully cross-party agreement. My question, Congressman, is why your Russian spy, KGBela, was held in position for a long time on charges of corruption and on charges of espionage. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Acquitted! György Szilágyi: Acquitted!]] Unfortunately, we can't hear about this again. We can't hear about a lot of cases related to you. I hope, therefore, that you fully agree with the fact that an independent investigating authority is right to operate in Hungary, that the independent court is right to operate in Hungary now, and that the independent prosecutor's office is right to operate in Hungary now. [[Interview with Péter Polt from Jobbik.]] I see that your promises show that if you were to be held in government, you would not be able to operate an independent prosecutor's office, an independent court, because you are already declaring judgments and banning journalists from the occupation. But I hope then we'll find out what they wanted to use the smoke bomb for, for example, in the House of Representatives, and why they brought it in, and so on. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why didn't that have any consequences?]] Such matters should be brought to light, honourable Member, because they are, of course, deeply silent and, of course, deeply dormant, but we did not expect any more from you. The fact that you and Andrea Varga-Damm don't stand up for Zsolt Petry because of your opinion [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Never against an intolerant man!]] You've been removed from your position...
u2021-04-08-231	Congressman, if you speak to the subject, we would like to thank you with respect. I'm warning you, if you're not talking about the subject, I'm taking the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-232	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the warning. It's a shame today that you don't stand up for a fired man. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Next to an intolerant man! Dr. Tamás Deutsch applauds.]]
u2021-04-08-233	Congressman Zoltán Balczó has the floor for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-234	I apologize for having to react, but when a false accusation is made about an ex-member, I can't afford to say anything. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We're used to it from Nacha!]] You are saying, and you are right: if the prosecution of someone is making very serious accusations against our fellow Member, they say that innocence is a presumption because no judgment has been made. You're right. In the case of Béla Kovács, second-degree court proceedings are currently taking place. Court of First Instance has acquitted him of espionage. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] Once again, Congressman, you have acquitted him of the espionage charge. If you... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Budget fraud!]] It's simply mind-blowing, Congressman. You were talking about espionage. If you had said that it was a budget fraud worth 11 million forints, which was repaid, and the whole point of this fraud was that you did not comply with the administrative rules...
u2021-04-08-235	Congressman, I would also like to warn you that you are not talking about the subject. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-236	I apologize. So if you have the same budget fraud and espionage, and you're brave to say that you've been reached for espionage, it's actually budget fraud, it tells me everything about you. [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: And he appealed that too!]]
u2021-04-08-237	Also for a two-minute comment, I give the floor to György Szi-lágyi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am forced to return to my previous speech and quote again, because after my speech both Tamás Deutsch and Lőrinc Nacsa spoke, and none of them heard it, so I repeat it again. If someone gives their opinion on society, whether political or social, we believe that Jobbik should not be disadvantaged in any way. I have also drawn your attention, my dear Congressman Nacsa, but you have not heard it, and I have also reminded Tamás Deutsch why they did not stand up for János Hrutka, who gave you an opinion that you did not like and that he was fired. And they both let go of the whole thing, and they don't say a word. Stand up then, Congressman Nacsa, and say that it was not right that János Hrutka was fired for his opinion, because then what he said would be appropriate, so I say again that they are doing nothing but demagogically different voices. Thank you. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2021-04-08-239	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-240	I don't think firing a man for his political opinion is right. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: No, that's what we talked about. György Szilágyi: That's what I said!]]
u2021-04-08-241	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the floor on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the national secretary of state if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[Zoltán Balczó: It is not easy for Mr. Secretary of State, it is not easy!]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-242	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, let me thank you for the opinions that support this proposal. I am pleased that once again a proposal has been submitted to this House, where not only on the side of pro-government factions, but also on opposition benches, has been made. I could finish with that, but let me still respond to some of the comments and comments made in the debate, and I promise I will try not to waste their time. As regards the details, there was also agreement between Mr Richárd Hörcsik, Chairman of the Committee on EU Affairs and Mr Zoltán Balczó, that, in the credit part of the new EU programme under the name of RRF, there was a completely new initiative, which, further thinking on the principles behind the initiative and, in the longer term, imagining such a loan, we could talk about the idea of a European United States. I agree with both Mr Hörcsik and Mr Balczó that this is not the path Hungary should follow in terms of the future of the European Union. At the same time, I am arguing with what Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea said about the criticism of the credit, and I am also arguing with the fact that, for the very first time, she is speaking about the number of developments in the Hungarian government debt. I would like to point out that, with regard to public debt, international organisations, including credit rating agencies, the European Commission, the IMF, and, more importantly, investors are not looking at the nominal level of government debt, but at the ratio of GDP. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: 80%...]] They are not looking at the evolution of the GDP ratio alone, but at the internal composition of it, and they are not looking at the development of government debt alone, but at other macroeconomic developments. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] So it would have been quite concrete and factual if she had also said that the Hungarian government debt had increased nominally since 2010 but had decreased significantly in terms of GDP [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] if you also say that, in particular, the ratio of government debt in foreign currency has fallen from more than 50 per cent to below 20 per cent; if you also say that retail financing has increased dramatically within the public debt; and if you also say that as a result, the financing burden of the Hungarian government debt has been approaching 2 per cent from a level of more than 4 per cent in terms of GDP. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] So these are the facts. And why are we talking about this when we're talking about the RRF loan? Because I do agree with Mr Balczó, and I agree with Mr Hörcsik, that the European Union's institutional system has crossed Rubicon in this respect. And why are we talking about this in the decision of our own resources? Because if the congresswoman knew the Union's own source system, as Mr Deutsch said, she would know that all the revenue collected from the Union's own resources has so far financed all expenditure without any deficit or debt. There is, therefore, a whole new situation in this regard, and in this respect the Hungarian government has previously represented that it should be considered whether or not the EU, the European Commission, is at the forefront of this loan. I repeat, there was no legal possibility of this before. We have said that it is not appropriate to use this option. But hearing the proposals made by many Member States, we said that if the countries of the South need this credit in the first place, this new instrument, we do not oppose the introduction of this new instrument. And now the decision before the government, and here again I agree with Mr Balczó, whether he took this opportunity or not. What I'm saying is that this loan should be seen as a cheap currency source. If we can continue to maintain that we are reducing the foreign exchange ratio within the public debt and optimizing financing costs, then it can be rational to use this credit for meaningful purposes, knowing that this loan naturally contributes to an increase in public debt. [[22.20]] The next point, in which I have to argue with Mr Balczó, is the preamble. Mr. Congressman said that the motion before the Honourable Parliament has a preamble that I may not quote a Member literally, so I apologise not for the proposal, but for its political overtones. Now allow me to draw attention to the fact that this preamble merely refers to the conclusions of the European Council of 11 December 2020 and this is of great importance in view of the fact that the issue of the system of own resources is viewed as a financial issue, or that issues which are not closely related to financial issues, such as the rule of law, can indeed be considered. The aim of the regulation on general conditions for the protection of the EU budget is to protect the Union budget, sound financial management and the financial interests of the Union, and to quote from the Council conclusions. [[Zoltán Balczó: That's what I'm talking about!]] The Union's budget, including the Next Generation EU, must be protected against any fraud, corruption or conflict of interest. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Once again, the regulation that serves the protection is quoted as:. The application of the conditionality mechanism under the Regulation will be objective, fair, impartial and based on facts, ensuring legal proceedings, non-discrimination and equal treatment of Member States. So when we are talking about the use of EU funds, the use of resources for the period of 21-27 and other conditions that may be linked to it, we need to see that these other conditions are objective, traceable and must be uniform for all Member States. And here, in the rule of law, it must be said that this word does not have a clear definition. We have therefore seen initiatives referring here to the set of rules relating to the use of EU funds, according to which sanctions may be imposed on Member States on the basis of relevant information from the relevant sources available. Sanctions can be decided on, based on completely incomprehensible, untraceable information and subjective value judgement, this is what the government did not agree with, and that is why it is in the proposal before you that the government has proposed to adopt the own resources decision with the knowledge that the seven-year EU budget, including the Council agreement on own resources and grants, is taken seriously by everyone, and that there will be no subjective, opaque, difficult-to-follow conditions linked to the use of EU funds. Allow me one more thought as to why we need to talk about whether EU funds for the coming years can be used under objective conditions, or whether other criteria not directly linked to the use of money will be linked to the use of EU funds. And here I am thinking that I myself find it difficult to understand that, when, with the institution of infringement proceedings, the EU institutional system can now live if a Member State does not comply with legislation, a European Union directive, a directive or Community legislation, a Community law that is directly applicable, it is possible to initiate infringement proceedings, it could be launched five years ago, ten years ago, this is not just a legal process, this could be a very serious financial penalty. There is, therefore, a system of institutions in which the infringements of each Member State can be called into account and which infringements can be corrected. It is not clear to me, therefore, that this is a personal opinion, either, why the new institution that, I repeat, would make certain countries financially punishable on the basis of non-obvious indicators would be necessary. As regards finally the last big question, which was discussed in today's debate, namely the question of how we made use of the possibility of EU grants, what we have achieved from this, let me first quote what we said in the debate and then express my own opinion. Congressman Gyula Molnár said that EU funds should be spent on real matters; now there is no functioning Hungary, virtual use of resources is taking place. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm said that EU aid was almost invisible, and Mr Zoltán Balczó also said that, in the context of EU aid, we may always show GDP, but the economy is not an end in itself. I agree with the latter point, by the way. But in fact, how we used EU funds, Mr Tamás Deutsch again mentioned specific statistics. Let me get back to my stats, too. The economy is not self-serving, but GDP is an established and commonly used indicator. We know what economic consolidation and financial consolidation had to be carried out after 2010. Following this, an economic growth has started in Hungary that is well above the EU average. The last year before the crisis is the data of 2019 and the five years before that, we see that the average growth of the Union was 2.1 percent, the average growth in Hungary was 4.1 percent, so the growth of the Hungarian economy was almost double. I repeat, I agree that this is an indicator, and the good thing is that if we look at the statistics in detail, because we see that not only the economy has expanded, but, as has been said, the number of people employed and the real incomes. Here again, let me refer to Mr Balczó, who said that we are failing in terms of consumption. Well, let's look at the economics side of what we're seeing, and what the population's extra income could be spent on. Mr President, if we assume that real wage developments do show well that the person's income is increasing or not, we can see that in recent years there have been years when wages have increased by 8 per cent or more, far above inflation. I would add that, in terms of wages, this was the case in 2020 as well, and during the crisis, average wages in Hungary have increased beyond inflation. What can you do with the extra income, what does the population make of it? You can consume it, as you said, Mr President; you can invest or make savings. Mr President, the picture would be complete if, in addition to the otherwise increasing statistics on consumption, we could also say that retail savings have never been at this level: over HUF 5000 billion is the source of public sovereign debt. If we also tell you what investments were again in the crisis in the first three quarters of 2020, including during the Crown Virus period: 12,876 new homes were built, this is 25 percent more than it was in the previous year. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, yes, the statistics show that, in recent years, Hungary has been able to achieve a significant increase in terms of European Union support and a new economic policy, exceeding the European Union's average. This extra increase was accompanied by an increase in the number of employees and real wages, and we hope that this process will continue in the years to come. But if there are opinions, let me quote Angela Merkel, who said in August 2019 that Hungary is making good use of EU funds. So I think that, in addition to statistics, there are also moderate opinions from abroad that positively appreciate the use of domestic EU resources. Finally, let me say that I hope that, if the honourable Parliament and all the EU countries accept this new own resources decision, if the use of new EU funds can start, then the economic policy that we have followed so far, complemented by the intelligent use of EU funds, will result in the continuation of favourable economic processes. It will result in more and more being paid into the EU budget, thus increasing the standard of living for all of us. With this hope, I propose to the honourable Parliament that the motion before you be adopted at a later date. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[22.30]]
u2021-04-08-243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, A general debate on the proposal for a Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/15709. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-244	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The draft law on the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities aims to ensure a strong and uniform regulatory role in the public interest by strengthening consumer protection, regulatory control and supervisory rights for certain exclusive economic activities of the State and for certain regulated activities of a public authority. The resulting authority shall carry out its tasks relating to the exercise and regulation of the supervision of the State over the system of independent judicial enforcement organisations, the management and regulation of the list of liquidators, and the supervision of certain activities of fundamental importance for the national economy which fall within the exclusive economic activity of the State. The proposal strengthens the powers of consumer, public authority and supervisory authorities and ensures strong and uniform public engagement in the interests of the public. It also ensures that the Authority reacts more quickly and effectively to social and economic processes. Dear Parliament, The authority leading the list of liquidators operating under the authority of the Minister without a wallet responsible for managing the national assets so far, the Gambling Inspectorate and the National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit The legal status of the authority established on the base of the Private Share Company will be laid down in accordance with the Fundamental Law, but the detailed tasks and powers of the Office will be included in the sectoral legislation. The establishment of an independent authority under the control of the Parliament can therefore provide greater control in order to protect citizens and the economy. By transforming the fragmented administrative structure, not only can bureaucracy be reduced, but also a predictable, transparent and uniform legal environment for citizens and businesses. The President of the Authority shall report the activities of the Office to the National Assembly by the end of May 31 of the following year. Dear House, With the adoption of the bill before you, the new authority will therefore oversee the independent judicial enforcement system in the future. But it will also include carrying out official tasks in relation to the retail trade in tobacco products and the organisation of gambling. Effective regulation of these areas is a priority and I hope that there will be no debate between us, and therefore the strict presence of the authority in these areas is of particular importance. Gambling and smoking pose significant public health threats, and therefore their impact on society must be constantly examined and, if necessary, steps taken to protect the health of Hungarian people should be taken. Dear Parliament, The proposal includes, inter alia, new rules and standards for the regulation of the list of insolvency administrators and the secondment of liquidators. In this way, priority liquidators can only be organisations that meet the strictest conditions in the future. Supervisory powers over an independent judicial enforcement organisation shall be deployed from ministerial level to an independent authority assigned to Parliament. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is also a concession council, which, with the involvement of the Economic Competition Authority, helps economic operators to develop uniform case-law. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the purpose of the bill before you is therefore to make the regulation and supervision of the economic sectors or activities referred to in the tasks of the Authority more effective and effective. The Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities can ensure effective, strong and single market regulation in the areas concerned. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-08-245	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The main speakers will be started by Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-246	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us is to establish a Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities which fall within some of the exclusive economic activities of the State and which regulates and supervises certain regulated activities of a public authority, acting as an independent regulatory body under the Parliament. The establishment of the Authority aims to improve the regulation and supervision of the economic sectors or activities referred to in the Authority's tasks by strengthening the powers of the Authority, increasing independence and stabilising supervisory positions. With the adoption of the proposal, the resulting authority can ensure effective, strong and single market regulation for a greater public benefit in the areas concerned. Dear Parliament, According to the proposal under consideration, the Authority will be entrusted with tasks related to the exercise and regulation of supervision over the system of independent judicial enforcement organisations and to the management and regulation of the list of liquidators, which are currently part of the duties of the Minister of Justice and the Minister without a wallet in charge of the management of national assets, as well as tasks related to the licensing, official control, supervision and regulation of gambling and retail trade in tobacco products, as well as to the official control, supervision and regulation of certain activities of tobacco product retail supply and tobacco wholesaler. These tasks are currently performed by the Gambling Inspectorate, National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. and fall within the competence of the National Tax and Customs Office. The smooth performance of the tasks of independent judicial executors and liquidators, of public law, and the interest of citizens limit the number of such posts, justifies the binding nature of their seat and area of competence and, in order to ensure this, adequate public supervisory and regulatory control. Due to the high social policy, public health and public policy nature, it is also essential to have a public engagement in meeting the needs in a regulated way, including in the gambling and tobacco retail sector that falls within the authority's remit. In accordance with Article 23 of the Fundamental Law, the regulation of the status of the Authority must be governed by a fundamental law, but its detailed tasks and powers of authority remain, as we have heard from the Minister of State, the Law on the Organisation of Gambling, the Law on Tobacco Control and Retailing of Tobacco Products, the Law on Court Enforcement, the Law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings and their implementing regulations. Dear Parliament, The Authority is the Gambling Inspectorate and the National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of The President of the resulting authority shall be appointed by the Prime Minister for a term of nine years. The Chairperson may be re-appointed once after the expiry of his term of office. In accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law concerning independent regulatory bodies, the authority shall report to Parliament. According to the proposal before us, the President of the Authority shall report the activities of the Office to the National Assembly by 31 May of the year following the year in question, and shall, on request, provide information to the Parliament's Committee with a given function. [[22.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Since the proposal and its contents, I believe that the Secretary of State has already given me a detailed report, I am not going to continue to add to the vote and I would like to ask with respect for the discussion and support of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-247	Thank you. I now give the floor to György Szi-Lágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-248	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The first and most important point on the proposal before us is that the title of it is misleading: you are talking about a supervisory authority, but the official control tasks are fundamentally mixed with executive tasks, operating tasks, but also, in a way, advisory tasks, which we will see in the case of the so-called concession council. It is funny to say that you are progressing with age, you are a hybrid, but this is not funny at all in the area of legislation and public administration, but is completely frivolous. It is all the more frivolous that they still have the capacity to stress the opposite in the general justification, and the Secretary of State Tamás Schanda pointed out this in his speech, and I quote: "The aim of the bill is to ensure a strong and uniform regulatory role in the public interest. Let us note this during my speech, because we will come back to it. Don't tell me that the issue, evaluation, conclusion, modification, termination of the concession contracts is an official task. It's a simple executor's errand. If that is the case, and that is the law, then I ask which body or organisation will supervise it, because according to the draft, the operating body designated by the authority is only subject to legislation. It is true that the President of the Authority will report on the activities of the Authority to the National Assembly by 31 May of the year following the year in question. This, however, creates a completely absurd situation, because obviously the Parliament will not be able to control the fact that, say, who received the tobacco concession at Blue Kút, on what basis and why. It is well known to the general public what kind of orbital frauds have already been committed by mass abuse, known as trafikmuti; how the market has been abducted by taffists and generals; how they have destroyed Hungarian businesses with a stroke of feathers; that you have not counted on the lives and livelihoods of families; and that you, the fidesz buddies, kissers and insiders, have become the rulers of a market with a serious tens and a hundred billion-dollar income. It was, wasn't it, their first major step towards the realization of their now prosperous Mafia state. Clearly, the government's intention remains unchanged: you are seeking open free robbery. We have just noted that the intention is to ensure a strong and uniform regulatory state engagement in the public interest. This sentence is an absolute mockery to all Hungarian citizens, as you even ridicule Hungarian people with such sentences, with such laws. The second striking thing is obviously that the President of the Authority is appointed by the Prime Minister for nine years without a tender. Please, it's funny, where do we live? It is clear that areas that will be integrated into the operating authority, as I have already said, for this hybrid, for which you fear that, after the upcoming government change, even serious prison years will come to light. So we need a person, an organisation that will ensure freedom of movement, at least until the end of the limitation period for each case, which is why this mandate is for so long. They obviously have a problem: how would they know that the chosen person will be properly loyal by the end of the ninth year? You can't be sure, because at any time, anywhere a gutter can creak, an evil lawyer can come in, and who knows what else. So they solved this problem by buying the loyalty of this person, giving him a ministerial rank, signed to pay the President of the National Bank, and it will be exactly 90 percent of that important comrade, which will be 4.5 million forints at today's prices. His deputies own $4 million just to make sure there's enough commitment. Of course, I understand that the intention is to ensure a strong and uniform regulatory state engagement in the public interest. But speaking of wages, it is quite simply impossible to assume that the members of the concession council themselves propose the remuneration of the members of the concession council and the president decides. The President who is also a member, as appropriate. I'm sorry, I didn't say it exactly. This right of choice has a limit, and this limit is that the fee must not be less than twice the minimum wage at any time. To be more specific, not monthly, no, for each meeting. They get that kind of money per meeting. We understand that there is no upper limit to the fee, so it can be 25 million forints per session if you think, of course, per member, but for safety's sake, a lower limit is available. We need these limits so that one of the council members doesn't fall under the minimum of living and can't, say, live. Aren't you ashamed to vote for something like this? Congressman Nacha, aren't you ashamed? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: No!]] You'll probably vote for him, too. Kind of reminds me of when kids make up the rules of these secret societies. This whole thing is a slam dunk, really! Similarly high standards: the members of the council are required to carry out their duties in person. To do so, the explanatory statement points out that this rule, I quote, ensures a responsible and high level of representation of interests. It is clear, therefore, that the purpose of this legislation, in addition to providing adequate protection and cover for some of the current organisations, as I have mentioned, after the change of government, is also intended to function as a kind of paying place for quite a lot of Fidesz prominents. If we let it go, but we won't let it, I can promise you that, no matter what, they're gonna vote for it right now. Of course, as I said, I understand, the intention is to ensure a strong and uniform regulatory state engagement in the public interest. However, in order not to be accused of pointing only at negatives, let us also look at positive developments. The operating body designated by the Authority was named the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities. Therefore, the name does not refer to it as the supervisory authority for national regulated activities. But not as a supervisory authority for regulated national activities. But even though it is a national supervisory authority for regulated activities. This is quite refreshing, it is quite positive that there will be an office on whose behalf at least it does not abuse the national adjective, which is much more important to the Hungarian people. This is the only positive I could find in the entire bill. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But it's a very big positive, so I can congratulate you on that. But to sum up, congratulations to the man who made all this up. I congratulate the national lead hunter, who presented this bill and presented it to us. And congratulations to all your Members who will vote in favour of this. Oh, and, of course, from here, I congratulate your new $4.5 million president, your $4 million deputies, your low-income council members, who are obviously looking for recognition, even though they'd rather hide underground in shame, if you had a sense of shame, but as we know, they don't. Thank you very much for your attention. I wish you good work. [[22.50]]
u2021-04-08-249	Thank you. The next lead speaker, Lőrinc Nacsa, presents the opinion of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-250	It occurred to me that you guys used to say that Jobbik is the National People's Party. The biggest shame is that it's national, but it'll be about that later. The purpose of the bill before us is to establish a Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities which fall within the exclusive economic sphere of the State and which regulates and supervises certain regulated activities of a public authority. The planned authority will function under the Parliament as an independent regulatory body. I indicate that if György Szilágyi's dream and our nightmare come true and you govern, the majority of them will be in Parliament, this is the organization under Parliament, I would like to signal to Mr. Congressman. The establishment of the Authority aims to make the regulation and supervision of the economic sectors or activities referred to in its responsibilities more effective. By adopting the bill, the authority will be responsible for carrying out tasks relating to the exercise and regulation of supervision of the independent judicial enforcement system and the management and regulation of the list of insolvency administrators. These tasks are currently part of the duties of the Minister of Justice and the Minister without a wallet for the management of national assets, so that in the future these powers will be exercised by the authority subordinate to Parliament. The government is handing over functions to the authority of the High Representative of the People's Republic. This structural change is also important because, in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law concerning autonomous regulatory bodies, the authority is solely accountable to the Parliament and independent of the government. The Authority shall also be responsible for the tasks relating to the authorisation, official control, supervision and regulation of gambling and retail trade in tobacco products, as well as to the official control, supervision and regulation of certain activities of tobacco retail supply activities and of tobacco wholesalers. These functions are currently performed by the Gambling Authority, the National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Private Limited Company and the National Tax and Customs Office. The Authority, therefore, is the Gambling Inspectorate, the National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the With the adoption of the proposal, the resulting authority can ensure effective, strong and single market regulation for a greater public benefit in the areas concerned. The KDNP fraction supports the bill. [[János Schanda applauds.]]
u2021-04-08-251	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Gyula Molnár, who will share the opinion of the MSZP faction with us. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, you have managed to embarrass me at first, because so far our centralization ideas have always been so easily said, and now here is a thing where, in contrast to the Fidesz style so far, it is completely, radically different. Yeah, that's suspicious, too. We've obviously made it to that lane that the most suspicious thing is the one that's not suspicious. In fact, listening to his expo, and seeing that even government representatives are a little tireder or run out of communication firecrackers, I still don't understand why this is happening right now. This efficiency is a very nice thing, but I don't understand exactly what the place and the role of it is right now. My fellow Member Szilágyi has given me more answers, and I would also like to contribute one more. And that is, clearly, the areas that you have touched structurally very hard over the last ten years, in some ways, have been involved in market management, market-acquiring, and each of them has a tiny little... I don't know what word to use, but they all have tiny stichs. Maybe it's a late-night term. So when you think about casino stories, when you think about the tobacco business, when you think about the concession authorities, especially the kukaholding, which I've dealt with more, each one of them has something that looks at it, maybe it senses this, which was not necessarily an efficiency-enhancing decision, but rather a market-acquiring decision in one way or another. I don't want to joke about the name, but obviously we'll be able to reach the supervisory authority for unregulated activities in the next year, because if there is regulated activity, there must also be unregulated activity. It's gonna be a pretty good job between you and me. Indeed, if we plan to prepare ourselves with a parliamentary majority in 2022 and there will be a new type of government, it will be very exciting what can be done with this area. I tell you frankly, I wasn't in love with any of these four authorities, so I'm not saying that I'm attached to them in some way, but for some reason, I'm telling you honestly, and I'm offering Mr. Secretary an incredible opportunity to react, of course, I don't really see why these things need to be combined. I feel like they've done their own thing in their own way. In any case, on the basis of what we have said so far as we are opposition representatives, we do not think that we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-253	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I want to approach this proposal in an absurd way, then I say it's all about the government understanding that it's going to fail next year, and the Fidesz realizes that it's going to fail. Yes, Mr. Secretary. So he tries to reorganize, organize things and functions for himself, which, for a while, he thinks after a change of government, he can influence things, and he can influence things that are nice to him. What is happening in this proposal, what is it about? Functions that are clearly, clearly, functions that require government-type functions linked to the executive power, take it out of executive power, create an authority, and assign it to the Parliament, but of course, not by the Parliament, but by the Prime Minister. For nine years, of course, the shorter it can be. I'm surprised it's not 12 years. In addition, this authority will be an independent regulatory body in these areas. So he takes things from the NAV, partly from the Minister of Justice, partly from the minister responsible for managing national assets, and transfers them to such a hybrid body, which has been very well described by the speakers before me as to why it is strange and why it is unusual. There hasn't been any such thing in 30 years. It is all about this, as my fellow Member Gyula Molnár has just mentioned the economic line, that in areas where Fidesz has clearly mapped its economic interests over the last 10 to 11 years, in areas where, if possible, there should, in the long term, have some effect on how that thing works. That is what the proposal is about. Basic activity, basic government activities are outsourced to such a strange hybrid authority. My fellow Members played with the names before me. We also had this idea, and we named it the authority that oversees controlled corruption, because that's what we have. Now we don't have time and energy to go through what you've done in the field of bailiffs, gambling, casinos and so on, or what kind of machinery and laws you've written in tobacco matters, because we'd be sitting here for a long time, and then there'd be laws to negotiate. The point is, I'm just pointing out an example of how they're trying to secure the power they've got now, and in a year's time, they won't. I'll tell you one thing. This authority shall have prior agreement with regard to the issue of a concession tender on behalf of the State, its assessment, the submission of a call for proposals and the conclusion of a concession contract, the amendment of the contract, the termination of the contract. From now on, for nine years, this gentleman or lady who will lead this and the apparatus will exercise this right of agreement. In other words, there will be a government and then a government, let's say, or at least two four-year cycles, and even at the end of those who are now put there and cemented for nine years, they will tell you, more precisely, that you will have the right to agree that a next government will terminate, modify, modify, write, want, decide anything. [[23.00]] Without this, the President of the Authority will not be able to carry out such things without his prior agreement. There's another suspicious point. They also complement the bankruptcy law and set up a group of companies and groups of business entities over the annual balance sheet total of HUF 500 million, and the so-called high-ranking insolvency register led by the authority acts in their case if anything happens to these companies. Now, what's happening? In this list of senior liquidators, only the liquidator recruited by that office may act in accordance with the requirements laid down in the regulation of the President of the Authority, so that the authority determines the requirements, only those who the President of the Authority considers to be such liquidators. In other words, for another nine years, say, from now on, you will decide who and how to charge the largest companies in Hungary. That's what that means, for example. And that means a lot of companies, a lot, a lot. You'd think 500 million forints would be a big sum in everyday life, of course, not on a corporate level. This authority will also monitor and supervise the executives. He's making rules for them completely, I repeat. The Department of Justice no longer has a role to play in this, it's going to this authority, and it's going to be running their contacts, that no, that's going to be the authority. One word, like a hundred, here is one, if you like, state in the state, which is probably not going to appear to anyone in practical operation, because you are on the government, and the cadres you put there will be included in the well-paying jobs that my fellow Members have just described. But here, after a change of government, an office, and a situation affecting the relationship between the executive power and this office, such as the SAO has already been established, the NAIH has been established, the Ombudsman has been established in part, the President of the Curia, and we could list institutions whose leadership and operation have been transformed to function as quasi-retro-government after a change of government. That is what is happening here, Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Members of the Fidesz. I can only repeat the sentences of my better fellow Member: this can be done, obviously accepted by the 133 brave people, obviously this will come into force, and be prepared to exist for a year now, because it is certain that, after a change of government, DK and the other opposition parties will cease to exist. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-255	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-256	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Nacsa Lawrence isn't in the room, so I wanted to answer him. [[Nacsa Lárinc enters the room.]] Yeah, he's coming, fortunately. It seems to the Member that he has problems with understanding the text, because I have made it clear in my speech that no matter who will be on the government, it does not matter who the government is, the authority will not be supervised, because Parliament will not be able to deal with the fact that in one of the settlements, as I said, who has received what kind of tender and why, for example, has received a tobacco product concession or anything else. But the problem is, we think he's having trouble understanding texts, but no, because you know that, because that's the goal. So that's what you're trying to do, so no one can check your decisions for this authority. I thought of another positive, but to hear it better, I'll take off the mask. One more positive thought came to my mind, because I have already said one thing about the name, namely that, indeed, as my fellow Member said, this bill shows that you are preparing to fail in the year 22 with steam for the change of government in the year 22 and are introducing such laws to the House, 133 very brave people are going to vote in order to continue trying to control the areas burdened with corruption and to protect their people who have been framed by corruption. This is his only goal, and this shows that you are aware that the Hungarian people will distract you in 22 precisely because this country has never had a more corrupt government. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-08-257	Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent representative. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When I read this proposal, I just didn't understand what it was for the first time. What areas are written in this organization, these areas are under the supervision of a ministry, right: the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Property, the Ministry of Innovation and the Ministry of Justice. And the rapporteur said that, in order to better supervise these areas, the authority of these regulated areas should be set up, it is of no interest to be called otherwise. This means that the government recognises that ministries have not been able to effectively apply their supervisory powers. However, everything is available both in human resources and in legislative mandates and in budgetary resources. And I thought that the ministries would supervise much more extensive regulated areas, and now I don't want to list the about twenty that still exist, why they chose them. And then I remembered, because there's a lot of money here. The activities of the liquidators are also very high, and in the execution of executives there is a great deal of money to be carried out, both in terms of value and in terms of remuneration. We don't even talk about tobacco, tobacco is very expensive, although I've never had a cigarette in my life, so I don't care what it costs. Practically in a way, he is organizing a completely governmental activity into an organization that is apparently under the supervision of a Parliament, which is not linked to legislative or non-executive power, nor can it be integrated into the system of brakes or counterweights, something like this. So this legislation wants to create something. Then my second thought was that in a few weeks we would probably find out who needs a greasy job, who doesn't now, because people in the Fidesz circle were most likely to show up who hadn't received a position worthy of their loyalty, rewarded with millions of remuneration, and now they're setting up an organizational system to give it to them. But consider, for example, if he is a supervisory body, how he will put up a concession tender. It's not the supervisory body. It's the competent body that does that. I'm not surprised that it wasn't brought in by a representative of the Justice Department, I'm not surprised because it's all legally such a disaster that I can talk for about an hour and a half about how we don't fit into our public and constitutional systems. But I will not, because, firstly, it is late, and secondly, my fellow Members have already said the many negatives about this. He says, Mr State Secretary, when he presents how harmful smoking is to health, and smoking as a regulated market needs to be supervised by this organisation because it can influence smoking habits in some way. What? ! Well, the medical wallet should discourage people from smoking on various advertising platforms. [[23.10]] It's not gonna be a supervisory body that's gonna get people to quit smoking! But, speaking of which, Mr. Secretary, you say that smoking is a health-destructive thing. Then just one more thing: why is the health-destructive device store national? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: anti-national.]] How can you give a national name to a man who sells something that kills people? I remember when the possibility of national liquor stores came up. I'm telling you, God, it's not. ? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: National drug stores!]] Let us consider, then, that this proposal is self-acclaiming that ministries do not effectively supervise these areas, and, secondly, that there is no coherent system in this proposal that could fit this into our constitutional system. It is also hybrid, hybrid and hybrid in terms of legal status. And then I would like to ask you to know what is not in the legislative proposal. That these supervisory powers would be taken away completely from the Ministries who are responsible. It's not in there. There is no proposal to amend the legislation on the powers of ministries. 'Cause now it's gonna be a double? By the way, I am convinced that 99 percent of the Fidesz-KDNP Group does not understand why this proposal has come here. I can't imagine you would agree with him, and of course, you're gonna vote for him because that's your job, but this is really a disaster! I'm telling you, it's probably not a coincidence that it's this late so there's only four or five of us left in this room, because there's nothing to do with that. With all due respect, Secretary of State, at a meeting of the government, your minister will tell the Prime Minister that this is indeed a fool's errand. No one really believes that the supervision of these four vast areas will be carried out by such counsel! Have you thought about how big this job is? This would require the creation of a separate ministerial structure with human resources, powers, infrastructure, everything. Well, has anyone ever thought about what a task these four areas are? Well, if the many ministries couldn't take care of them because they said it wasn't effective, that's why we need this organization, well, then how will an organization handle it? Let's just say I'm glad the executive faculty came up at all. If it were up to me, tomorrow it would be a system of public organizations again, because in the last 30 years, respect for the few exceptions among them, he played his honour before society at such a level that I believe that the existence of this as a private enterprise is not possible in a fair, genuine rule of law. So, if it were up to me, they'd be once again officials with a salary, a monthly salary, and a court order. Because what they do is a disaster with the money, the wealth of debtors, and the unacceptable style and indifference they do their job. So if you had the suggestion to return to the state, I would be the first to welcome you and vote in favour. So they need all the supervision, so if they're supervised by five authorities, then I'm happy if they're five authorities, but the other areas I don't understand. And this high-ranking executor! So, is there any way that one of the liquidators is smarter or the other is dumber? Aren't they taking the same exams? Are you more qualified than I am? The guy who got a "A" on the exam didn't get an "A" on him, did he? Really, how? Or is it going to be like, for example, the judges have the judge and the high-ranking judge? Or are the prosecutors gonna have the D.A. with the number two and the number five? So I don't understand who's gonna decide in a field who's so high-profile, and that's why you can get certain statuses for those tasks that, by the way, are the same for every insolvencyist, according to the law. Either one of them has to follow all the rules, the other doesn't, or one of them gets small companies, the other big companies? So, what is it both in training and in acquired licenses and in the office of liquidator, which justifies this distinction? By the way, you've already started this discrimination story with the auditors, but as I see it, that profession hasn't taken it, it's going on as it is. But how they form a separate caste in an organizational system and how they will cause a break in the entire liquidation professional community is incomprehensible. So I'll be honest with you, if I were you, I'd withdraw this proposal. There have been terrible, really many proposals that we have contradicted here in this House over the last three years, but this incomprehensibleness, the unjustified need to trigger constitutional resistance, because it does not fit into this public-law system, and it is unnecessary and a huge waste of money, and it will not have any effect, unless there is a team that needs a job richly rewarded by taxpayers. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-08-259	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the national secretary of state if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary Schanda.
u2021-04-08-260	Of course, Mr. President. If I may, I would certainly respond to what has been said in this debate and, above all, allow me to thank all those who participated in the debate. Allow me to begin by correcting Mr Szilágyi, and suggest that if we go into a textual debate, it is worth looking at the exact text of the legislation, according to which, in a way that you criticize, in the case of the members of the concession council, the rate of pay per meeting should not be more than twice the minimum wage at any time: so it regulates the exact opposite of what you have said. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] It sets a maximum and not a minimum. So it is important to look at the text of the law, because then we can have a meaningful debate about it. Allow me also to draw your attention to some of your minor errors, honourable Member. On the one hand, the issue of appointment, rank and payment is fundamentally integrated into the structure of the existing autonomous regulatory bodies. That's where it fits. There are independent regulators in Hungary, and this will be another institution of this type, and this will fit into this structure. Mr President, we cannot regulate the same institutions in different ways; this would not be appropriate. It would be pointless, which is why we have put forward a proposal to the Honourable Parliament, which fits precisely into the public-law structure that operates in Hungary. By the way, this is also the answer to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm that I propose that Article 23 of the Fundamental Law should be studied, which clearly states what type of institution it is. This structure also includes the new authority to be set up. Honourable Congressman, I would like to point out to Mr Szilágyi that the specific feature of the independent regulatory bodies is that they are subordinate to Parliament, and I must admit frankly that I think it is a new kind of opposition approach, which you, in particular, and perhaps other fellow Members, have indicated that if the government transfers powers to Parliament, the government will have less powers, you will criticize this. [[23.20]] Strange opposition behaviour is, at least until now, completely unknown behaviour and opinions. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Let me also draw your attention to the fact that here, in connection with the operation of the concession council and the whole office, you have indicated that there are contradictions between the different powers and types of operation, so that I can make it clear and clear: it is the concession council that carries out advisory types of tasks. The Office itself exercises authority and makes use of all the possibilities that may otherwise result from the quality of the independent regulatory body. Allow me, Mr Parliament, to draw attention also to what Congressman Molnár has said. You said you didn't really understand the need for this. What I do not understand is why it is not important for the Member to argue that cutting red tape is basically the right thing to do. If something has been done so far by more agencies, more authorities, more organisations, and fewer institutions can do so with smaller apparatuss, it can operate more effectively, substantially reducing bureaucracy, otherwise reducing the number of offices that provide economic operators and Hungarian citizens with some kind of regulation or authority, I think it will benefit both the market and economic operators and ultimately the Hungarian people. And yet I understand Congressman Molnár's doubts because he himself quoted from Witness A, and I also believe that his thinking corresponds to other scenes of the film: where we are not, the enemy is. You're thinking about that by an esteemed sentence. Honourable Congressman, However, I would encourage you to accept that it is appropriate for economic operators and Hungarian people to be able to regulate life with an office that will be more effective and effective. In fact, although we are talking about a number of areas here, there is a common element in these areas, namely the need to limit the number of operators involved in these areas because of the mitigation of the related adverse effects and the public confidence. It is specific areas; it is necessary for the functioning of the economy, but also for specific areas, where strict and effective official action is needed for consumers and economic operators. Dear Parliament, I would also like to point out to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki that I do not understand the duality in your argument of criticising, on the one hand, the nine-year mandate of the heads of the authority, which is necessary in order to enable a predictable and stable administration. It is said that we are proposing this because, in the next elections, the civilian national government will not receive confidence from the electorate. I'm sure we'll get it, and you've been sent to wonder by the Hungarian electorate as many times as you deserve it. Honourable Congressman, The thing is, however, while you have some strange reason to trust the victory of the assembled Gyurcsány coalition, while you say that you would terminate this office. I don't get it. On one side, they say they're gonna shut it down, and on the other side, they say we're gonna cement something. I do not understand, and let them decide what they are now accusing us of: concreteization or something quite different, honourable Member. But it is clear that you do not know what your problem is with this bill. You don't know why this bill really needs to be criticised. Therefore, from this side or from that side, they will try to attack this proposal only in order to be able to criticise the text and the proposed amendments. I would also like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that you have proposed a regulated authority that monitors corruption. That would be a real DK authority, a real DK proposal. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] It was the Gyurcsány governments that operated in reality. Since then, honourable Member, just to reject these completely unfounded slanders, I would like to draw your attention, even at the late hour, to the fact that the national civil government has tightened up the public procurement law, has, by the way, tightened up the sanctions on corruption, has established legislation that only transparent companies can receive state aid in any way or in any form of public money, and not in general offshore companies, which have been characterised by the governance of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Interventions in opposition benches.]] Allow me also to draw attention to the fact that we can be accused of anything, the Hungarian state's wealth has increased by one and a half times since 2010. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: Lőrinc Mészáros.]] Hungarian state wealth, honourable Member, is just to clarify the issues of interpretation. Allow me also to draw the attention of Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm to the fact that I did not say that the organisation system so far was not effective, but that it could be even more effective, that it could be done better, and that we would like to do better. That's what this bill is about. In my view, it will be more effective in itself that the functioning of this authority is, by virtue of the independent regulatory body status, that the authority is entitled to legislative power and can therefore react more quickly, effectively and effectively to market developments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me also to ask the question: since when is it a problem if, by the way, powers are transferred from the executive power, i.e. from the government, to an opposition representative. Allow me also to draw your attention to your error, honourable Member, that the authority would not issue concession proposals and allow me to point out that the legislation which directs the tasks and powers of the ministries in the bill before Parliament is not included in the bill, because as a lawyer, the honourable Member knows for sure that the duties and responsibilities of ministers and ministries are governed by a government decree. That is, the Parliament does not need a law, not only that it is not necessary, it cannot make a decision by law. I am also sure that it was only because of political motivation that the congresswoman attacked this bill before the Parliament, because she knows precisely that the status of an independent regulatory body is not unknown, as I said earlier, in the Hungarian public law system, and I hope that because of what she said in relation to the executives, she will change her mind and finally support the adoption of this bill with her vote. [[23.30]] I thank you for the supporting positions expressed in the debate, and thank you also for the fact that we have been able to hold a debate, even if we did not agree on everything, and I respectfully ask all the factions of the Parliament to take into account the answers I have given, in which I hope that I have responded to everything that I have been asked in this debate by the Members of Parliament as a question, so please that those who initially did not want to support this bill will reconsider their views and be supportive of this amendment, because this is in the interest of Hungarian economic operators, this is in the interests of Hungarian families, this is in the interests of the Hungarian people. I trust that such a proposal, which takes into account the interests of companies, companies and people, will be supported by all factions in the final decision-making process. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-261	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, The Convention on International Civil Aviation signed in Chicago on the 7th of December 1944. General debate on the presentation of its Appendix and its amendment 1 in a single structure until closure. The government referral is T/15697. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tamás Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the author. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-262	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Protocol amending it referred to in the title of the proposal were published in Decree-Law No 25 of 1971. Pursuant to Article 37 of the Convention, Contracting States shall cooperate in the standardisation of rules, standards, procedures and organisational tasks applicable to aircraft, personnel, air services and ancillary services, which facilitate and improve civil aviation. It shall publish standards and recommended practices for air transport in the Appendices to the Convention. Dear Parliament, Given the increasing complexity of the global air transport system and its interrelated aviation activities, systems guaranteeing the safe operation of aircraft and international standardisation of the relevant basic rules are needed. The standards and recommended practices described in Appendix 19 of the bill are intended to establish basic common rules for the Contracting States in the system to address safety risks. The amendment includes, inter alia, new and modified standards and recommended practices related to flight safety management systems, as well as a number of explanatory notes and extends the scope of the safety management system to organisations responsible for aircraft design and production. The amendment also strengthens legal safeguards to ensure the protection and proper use of safety information and enables their continued accessibility, which is important to support proactive, security-enhancing strategies. Safety data and information have also been identified to facilitate their consistent application. The second edition of the bill contains the text of the original appendix and its amendment in a uniform structure. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposed bill, with the adoption of which the amendments already applied at international level can also be incorporated into domestic law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-263	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-264	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us is aimed at initiating the publication in a uniform structure of Appendix 19 to the so-called Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation and the first amendment to the Appendix. The Convention on International Civil Aviation was originally signed in Chicago on 7 December 1944. From here, from the Hungarian Parliament, it is absolutely surreal that, in these days, international civil aviation was the biggest problem for anyone, since Hungary was suffering from a war in hell, and the siege of Budapest was taking place, so from here, the Hungarian Parliament, it is absolutely surreal that in those days there were people who had the biggest problem, but we are glad that this was the case and this agreement was concluded. Moreover, the Chicago Convention was transposed into the Hungarian legal system by Decree-Law No 25 of 1971. A special interest in the original Chicago agreement is that a separate chapter was devoted to the negotiating parties to halting infectious diseases and the health and hygiene rules of civil aviation. At the time, they were trying to make the right rules for civil aviation against plague, cholera, and other diseases. Even now, we do not know how the coronal virus epidemic will be stamped on civil aviation when our lives return to some extent, and what additional health measures and necessary measures will be put in place. Besides, this was a vital issue in the creation of the Convention. The current amendments were made with the agreement of the Member States, including Hungary, on the basis of the decision of the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. These changes are intended to address and reduce safety risks. The new regulations can be introduced into the Hungarian legal order by the publication of the current law, so I would like to indicate that the Fidesz and KDNP factions support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-08-265	Thank you. I give the floor to our next lead speaker, Csaba Gyure, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-08-266	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have already heard from the expozee, the Chicago Convention is today's theme and Appendix 19 to that which has been amended and is introduced into the Hungarian legal system. We heard that it was established in 1944, that this Chicago Convention was born on 7 December, and that the organisation of international civil aviation was established as one of the UN's specialised institutions. December 7th is also the world's day of international civil aviation, so it is celebrated every year by aviation organisations. Obviously, as has already been said, Hungary was unable to join this organization when it was founded, as it was under siege of Budapest, and the second world war was most active in Hungary in these hours, these days, so we could only join this agreement much later, in 1969, with the adoption of Decree-Law No 25 of the year. Why the Chicago Convention came to light, I would like to quote the document of 7 December 44. The future development of international civil aviation can greatly contribute to the creation and maintenance of friendship and understanding between the nations and peoples of the world, and it is desirable to avoid friction and to promote cooperation between nations and peoples on which the world's peace depends. So it's big words that they say, but perhaps in December 1944, these words had a completely different meaning, and they interpreted it in a completely different way, and I really think that in the hell of the second-to-last year of World War II, everyone wanted peace, and indeed, world peace was perhaps the most important thing at the time. What were the main aspects of this Chicago convention? Security of international civil aviation, regular development, rational and economical conduct of international aviation, ensuring equality of opportunity, is also a very important issue. As my previous KDNP fellow Member quoted in this article, Article 14 already dealt with effective action against diseases. The Contracting States take effective steps to prevent the spread of cholera, typhus, smallpox, yellow fever, plague and other infectious diseases by aircraft. International health provisions applicable in air transport will be developed. So what protocols should be applied, and look how important it is, unfortunately, to the 21st century. In the 20th century, in the 2020s, too, it is incredibly topical. [[23.40]] Perhaps air transport has a small role to play in the fact that the Covid-19 infection could actually reach Europe from China in seconds, reach the United States in seconds, and entangle the world, even if it is truly today XXI. In the 100th century, the most modern protocols were developed to keep these infections in the background as much as possible and prevent the spread of disease worldwide. Therefore, this organisation, the high-level civil aviation organisation, aviation safety and aviation security, is one of the most important tasks of complying with uniform and strict rules. It constitutes international standards and recommended practices which must be respected by all Member States. There are currently 193 Member States. It sets out the most important rules in the field of aviation in committees, so-called "Annexes', appendices. It's like this, the current one that's been released, that's Appendix 19 or annex. And how important it is for these uniform rules to be established, I would like to set another example, and this is the European single European sky regulation, which I would like to give an example of why this is good. The Single European Sky initiative aims to improve the efficiency of air traffic and air navigation services. Since this was introduced, and this has been addressed in Europe, airspace capacity has tripled compared to 2004 levels, depending on the fact that we know that Europe has not grown since 2004, it has the same area, yet its airspace capacity has tripled, mainly due to the introduction of conventions and common rules and standards. However, air safety has increased tenfold in the same period, which I think is the most important thing for all of us on flights. This very nice indicator has increased tenfold, air safety, all in 15 years. In addition, the negative environmental impact of aviation has been reduced by 10 percent, which I think is part of the 21st century. It's obviously a very, very important factor in the century. And another important thing is that in addition to safety, efficiency, environmental protection, what is important: obviously, the price is also very important for passengers, and cost-effectiveness has also increased significantly by introducing these rules, and we have now reached the point of allowing flights to travel more kilometres at less cost. So the regulation means that prices are falling for one kilometer of flight. So cost-effectiveness is also very important, but security is the most important, and efficiency and environmental protection are also the most important. These are the aspects that need to be taken into account, and that is why it is very important to put this appendix in Hungarian case law, and we therefore support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-08-267	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] If not, the general debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to respond to what has been said in this debate? [[For signal:]] If so, please. You have the floor.
u2021-04-08-268	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for your statements and for your support for the adoption of the bill. Good night, everyone.
u2021-04-08-269	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Monday 12 April at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, the notary of Parliament, the representative of Jobbik: What will happen to you? He said that he had spoken after the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-08-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The small railway, which looks back on the past of nearly a hundred years, is also very popular among the families of Somogy and the visitors. Not for nothing, since one of our country's most moody little trains, zaps for nine kilometers in an idyllic, beautiful environment, through a landscape protection area. And probably in view of this, in 2019 the Fidesz government announced that they would provide immediate support for the small railway to Mestmő, because, I quote:. The government is constantly supporting the repair and renewal of tourist attractions and small railways related to nature. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and Gentlemen, The question is, if there is a government, otherwise noble and valuable intention, as well as a source of development, why hasn't this railway been repaired since 2019? By the way, passenger transport on the mini-rail has been suspended since the outbreak of the corona virus. During this time, they could have already started the work, but this has not happened to this day. The state forestry, SEFAG Zrt., which interrupted the operation of the Mesztgő railway. The following information can be found on the website:. The investment is currently under preparation and planning for the renewal of the railway infrastructure. Did you hear that? It's under preparation, and it's only under design, and you don't even know when you're going to get started on this development. In the process of the state-owned company, he suddenly dismissed the workers on the mini-rail. They did so during an economic crisis, when it is extremely difficult to find new jobs, especially for people who are about to retire. What's gonna happen to them now? And by the way, it was precisely these people who regularly maintained this railway line. It's simply not true that the train would have become an accident hazard. I would also like to mention that the number of passengers has increased steadily since 2013 and has doubled in recent years. Ladies and Gentlemen, I have to ask you again, on behalf of the people of Somogy, why the renovation has not been started since 2019, and when will it be finished at all, when we will be able to travel again on this wonderful route with this wonderful train from Mestnyő. And until we have a clear and clear answer to this question, it is right to think that the small railway in Mester will come to the fate of the Bikeway in Mester, which the Fidesz government has been promising for years, but has not even started. But let's stick to the railway example, there are worse cases, namely the Balatonszentgyörgy-Somogyszob or the Balatonfenyves-Táska railway line. Passenger transport has been suspended since 2009, the latter since 2002, and since then the rails have been removed. But if that were to happen, it would be unworthy of Somogyland, and it would be unworthy of its wedge, the mesmeric railway. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-08-271	Thank you. Member Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, also came forward after the agenda:. The concrete monster designed for the waterfront is not built on Balatonvilágos. Here you go. [[23.50]]
u2021-04-08-272	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few weeks, an extremely intense media interest has accompanied the fate of the works that I have been planning to carry out in Balatonvilágos, one of the settlements of the Somogy 4 Constituencies I represent. Well, last month, I received a lot of requests about the concrete monster planned for Lake Balaton. At the site of the former pioneer camp in Balatonvilágos, the investor wanted to build a seven - story, 92 - apartment condo. I have always given firm and clear answers to the questions raised about the waterfront building, and I have never hidden my opinion, and my position has not changed since then. I admit that the tourism development of Lake Balaton must be supported, because the development of the region's economy, the creation of jobs, the expansion of quality and quality services are in our interest. However, in my opinion, the investment in question would have created a building in Balatonvilágos in a number of ways, and the intention to install the shore lane of Lake Balaton was highly objectionable to me. Therefore, after learning about the visual plans, I myself have said that I cannot support the implementation of the investment in this form. In an official letter to the Somogy County Government Office, I also indicated my concerns about the investment to the Prime Minister's Office, and I promised the local government and the people of Balatonvilágos that I would do everything I could to ensure that the concrete condom on the spectacles could not be built in this form. At the same time, I regretted that there were some who, as usual, wanted to create a purely political issue from the investment in question. Perhaps I could put it this way that they were not interested in the real solution in this case, but were merely seeking to make political capital out of this situation for themselves. I said it back then, and I hold it now that the solution to the problem and the calm and prompt settlement of the matter, as far as possible, was not a political issue for me, but rather a matter of conscience and emotion. That's why I thought it was important for me to act personally and speak on the matter. There was a need for rapid action, as the demolition work of the former pioneer camp was already underway, and we were getting closer to the start of the planned construction day by day. Time, therefore, was extremely pressing. That is why I thought that we need rapid and effective action here, not political action, not spectacular and vocal manifestations. In the light of the views of the public, and in agreement with them, there was a great deal of negotiation and consultation to be organised. I was in regular and continuous contact with the Balatonvilágos municipality, the mayor, the Somogy County Government Office, the Prime Minister's Office and, of course, the local residents. In the course of a few days, we have made significant progress in the case, since the amended government decree was published in the Hungarian Gazette and came into force, which restored the original construction regulations for the site of the former pioneer camp. Of course, there were those who had already called for victory and even tried to set up this development as their own personal success; this proved, of course, their own ignorance. I didn't comment on such methods, so I won't do it now, soul on it! Even after the amendment of the regulation, I said with caution, because the change was a significant step forward, but it could not yet be regarded as an end result, because the change in legislation, although clearly and decisively reflected the Government's intentions, was still in place. Our aim was therefore still unchanged: the concrete monstrus of Balatonvilágos should not be built in the planned form, but it was now mostly the determining authorities to take action in order to enforce the demands, demands and government intentions of the population, the Balatonvilágos Municipality. Therefore, I asked the Prime Minister's Office to review the building permit issued earlier. The decision to settle the situation was taken by the Prime Minister's Office on 26 March, so it became certain that the waterfront complex could not be built in Balatonvilágos. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Balatonvilágosians, residents, property owners and the municipality, because their cooperation has been a success. I also thank them for their initiative, information and continuous cooperation. And last but not least, thank you very much to the Government for the fact that our request has been heard and the legislative background has been changed with record speed. So it can finally be said that our cooperation was successful, and, as I said earlier, our joy is shared, but success is for the Balatonvilagosians. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-08-273	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good rest, everyone.
