u2021-02-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 3rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, I must fulfill my sad duty to announce that Ferenc Kispál died in the 74th year of our former colleague's life. Ferenc Kispál, former politician of Fidesz, obtained a mandate from the regional list of the county of Csongrád in the 2006 parliamentary elections, and until 2007, he was the representative of the regional parliament. During his term of office, he assisted the Committee on Agriculture. In addition to his representative work, he was a founding member of MAGOSZ and until his death, Vice President and Chairman of Csongrád County, while former president of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy in Csongrád County. For his work for Hungarian farmers, he received the Golden Wreath Master's Award and the Béla Kovács Prize. I ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[Members salute the memory of the deceased with a minute's silence.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, In 2017, the National Assembly decided to declare 22 February the day of the Hungarian Parasports. On this day, in 1970, the Olympics Olivér Halassy Sports Club was founded within the Motion Improvement Institute. The name of the club, Oliver Halassy, has become a legend in his life. When he was eight years old, he lost a foot in an accident and then started swimming in a competitive way. In waterball he won two Olympic gold and one silver, three-time European champion, and achieved many Hungarian sports results. At the European Championship in Paris in 1931, he could have been at the top of the podium in two different sports: he was the European champion of 1500 meters of speed and water polo at the same time, and died 75 years ago in tragic conditions. According to the motto of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, being retarded does not mean being a loser! And indeed, perhaps the parasportsians are the most confronting us with the fact that struggle, perseverance, and determined will can give us the strength to overcome all obstacles. They also teach us that by the wings of the soul and strong faith, all physical obstacles can be overcome. In view of their competitions, they give us fantastic sports experiences and moments that tell us more than any word about the spirit and meaning of sport. This year we hope it will be an Olympic year, so now we want our Paralympics to reach Tokyo after successful preparation, and the epidemic situation does not prevent them from competing safely, and we are eager to root for them. We can safely say that by their superhuman achievement, they are multiple winners without a medal. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Dialogue, Mr Tamás Mellar applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2021-02-22-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, After the elections in 2010, when the Orbán government started, it quickly disabled the words. "reform" and "supplied" and did not allow them to be used in its communication. Although the Orbán government knew very well that the country needed serious reforms, serious changes, but at the same time it saw very well that in the previous period these words, reform and modernisation, had become obsolete. He therefore developed another strategy for the implementation of the changes. And that is to say, when he chose the area he wanted to transform, he starved it in the first place, i.e. he took back budget resources to a significant extent. Then he offered to implement the transformation, reform, and then obviously the sector, the leaders of the sector, could do nothing but accept the change, accept the reforms rather than continue to face budgetary constraints. [[11.10]] The same thing happened with regard to the modeling of universities. Before the period of the change of model, in previous years, the budget of universities was significantly cut back by the government, and then, at the beginning of January this year, when Minister Palkovic ordered the leaders of the rural universities, he made them an offer that they could not refuse, either voluntarily request that the model change take place, or continue to withdraw budget funds. Of course, in this situation, university leaders could do nothing but accept this ultimatum and decide to change models because they did not want their institutions to continue to suffer because of insufficient resources. So what you can see now, around the end of February, is that the university model change has started and is in progress. But what's really going on? A transformation is now taking place, as a result of which previously state-owned universities are transformed into private universities or foundation universities, but this transformation and transformation has two very important problems. One is, if you will, of a strategic or national political nature, namely that the Orbán government is eliminating the rural network of state universities and thus putting certain social groups at a disadvantage. Rural society, poor families with talented children, hinders them from further education, making it more difficult for them to get into university. The other problem is much more powerful: if you like it to be criminal, because, in fact, under the guard of privatisation, there is nothing other than stealing, namely the transfer of state property to private hands, free of charge, because the state is handing these assets over to the foundations, and it appoints a curatorium for the head of foundations, namely, an heir, so that no one can change the composition of these curators, and there is no control over the curators, and the Senate can't influence them, so the board is doing with these assets what it wants. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] I would therefore like to say that I reassure my fellow citizens that this will not stay this way for long: after 2022, when the new government stands up, we will find the legal forms by which we will be able to reverse this, because I think that Hungarian society will do so. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He deserves more anyway. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-02-22-2	To reply, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-02-22-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is, honourable Member, that you have now been completely separated from the facts and sunk into the depths of Gyurcsány. Congressman, it wasn't fashionable to threaten criminal law here in Parliament before. Ferenc Gyurcsány allowed himself to do so, who precisely started threatening the members of the board of the institutions involved in the change of models. You have just joined Ferenc Gyurcsány and wish to sing from his music. Honourable Congressman, The fact is, in his speech, he made countless mistakes and false statements. Let's start watching these one by one. Firstly, you say that in recent years there has been insufficient attention to higher education. Honourable Congressman, That's not true. You know perfectly well that you want to help the political players who wanted to make Hungarian higher education pay. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, You are struggling to bring back the left that wanted to enable paid higher education for Hungarian students; that left should return to power, the left that has indebted and pushed Hungarian higher education into an impossible position. Honourable Congressman, If we look at the data, we can see precisely that since 2010, the national civilian government has had to spend tens of billions of forints trying to replace the bad and irresponsible contracts that were called PPP constructions. This is what we do all the time: we are trying to restore the bad legacy of the left and enable higher education to have the infrastructure itself that is needed for education. [[11.20]] Honourable Congressman, You would know or know exactly what strategy the government is working on, and that we adopted the transition in higher education in 2016, and this strategy clearly sets out and states that we want to make higher education institutions a driving force for local social life and economic development. That is why the government decided to change models, started with Corvinus, and then continued with several other higher education institutions, because we really want local higher education institutions to become central actors in social life, economic life and innovation. In addition, they could provide better quality training for Hungarian students and young Hungarians, which they can make better use of in the labour market. Honourable Congressman, The fact is that we want higher education institutions to be able to operate in more flexible and predictable conditions and to operate more freely. Honourable Congressman, When you are attacking the change of model, you are not attacking us, because during the autumn session the government presented the package of model changes that we thought were absolutely necessary for these institutions. Then what happened was that higher education institutions, universities, realized that this change was necessary and that they were voluntarily asked to participate in this process. Honourable Congressman, For example, you have a significant connection to the University of Pécs, which is why you know precisely that the Senate of the University of Pécs has discussed this issue, and the Senate of the University of Pécs has also asked for the change of model by more than two thirds of a majority; this was initiated by the government. Congressman, you don't want to tell the U.S. Senate what's good for him from here in Parliament. If they want a change of model, if they want to operate under more flexible conditions, if they want to operate more freely, then let us do so, let us negotiate with them, and if that is acceptable to us, let us support them in this. Honourable Congressman, I would therefore like to ask you not to attack the institution of the change of model. Be so loyal to the Pécs, so loyal to his own university, the University of Pécs, that he doesn't attack his Senate decision, but supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-4	I now give the floor to the representative of the LMP, Antal Csárdi. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Over the past few days, the press has repeatedly been full of scandals around Lajos Kósa and the heiress of Beller. I think this is thoughtful, because this scandal perfectly shows how a significant part of the pro-government representatives relate to money, wealth. We know that this does not necessarily have to mean yachting, although we have seen this as an example, this scandal is happening on two parallel planes. On the one hand, there is a cheating woman or a cheating woman, to be exact, whose promises were believed by Lajos Kósa, or, as you know, the trial of the heiress in Bell began or began, and in the course of the trial, and this has given her currentity in recent weeks, the testimony of both Lajos Kósa and Lajos Kósa's wife and Lajos Kósa's mother have been made public in the news reports about this. These testimonies clearly show that there are legal aspects that I think the authorities should think about. Technically, we see that this case has two perspectives. One was that Lajos Kósa was infinitely, almost unimaginablely gullible, because he believed that there was an heir in Hungary who spent a thousand billion-dollar amount of time, and believed that he could give him a fortune that had, by the way, official papers signed and countersigned by a lawyer. I think it has a second reading. Regardless of the fact that Lajos Kósa, I'm sorry for the expression, but he fell so foolishly for this scam, we should consider what is the situation with influence. What does the law say about that? As an official, to offer or give an advantage against consideration, this exhausts the facts of the manipulation. It would be worth asking the authorities whether it is realistic that Lajos Kósa thought it was completely natural that he would be given a gift later it turned out to be imagined with billions of gifts. In addition, it turned out that Lajos Kósa's mother said to the police that one of the authentic instruments was not signed by him. It would be worth examining who would be the winner of this gift contract, so whose interest it is to have that signature forged there. Has the procedure started with what I'm talking about? Have you started an investigation into the fact that the influence has been dealt with? Has the investigation started in connection with the counterfeiting of the authentic instrument? I think that there is only one question left at the end, regardless of whether I am obliged to say this in a very large quotation mark by Hungarian independent authorities. On the one hand, if we're simply talking about being gullible, in good faith, but let's just say that Lajos Kósa wasn't smart enough to believe this fake story, was he capable of taking the lead? It is also worth looking at the other half of this, that Lajos Kósa is worthy of leading the Defence and Police Committee by the way, and that he was able to become a member of such a scandal, for example, of the operational tribe. So I think that there really is only a half-step of flat ground theory here, and I think that you have a responsibility here, and I would like to know what kind of procedure can be expected in this regard. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-02-22-6	Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-02-22-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You were talking about how we can believe in each other in society. If I go to a grocery store and he weighs the merchandise I bought, I believe that's what it is, and I believe it's of good quality. Society is built on trust. Of course, you don't have to understand this, and you may be on the other side of this, and you see it differently and act differently, but if we're thinking about what you said in this speech, then I understand why András Schiffer is not a member of your party and doesn't lead it. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] Practically so much nonsense that he raised in connection with, for example, influence dealing, where you claim that this heiress would have received her inheritance if Lajos Kósa acted in his behalf... I cannot interpret otherwise, although how the state or official body is involved in an inheritance matter, or any official person, is completely incomprehensible. So you're talking nonsense, you're trying to get a case out of this, but that's perfectly understandable, because you're a member of a Gyurcsány coalition whose leader in 2006 told in the autumn speech that we've been lying for the past year and a half. Bad news, Congressman. That man lied before him, and he has been lying ever since, and if anyone here deceives me by cheating, then this mixed cut, which he has now recruited behind him, with which they are now using the virus to discredit the government. You mentioned that the committee was headed by Mr. Lajos Kósa. You don't have anything to say to me as long as you keep Lajos Korózs warmed up in your bosom, who is practically not in a private matter, but in fact in the news during an epidemic, and you continue to tolerate it to lead precisely the committee that is competent to end the epidemic as soon as possible so that people believe in health care, those who work there. [[11.30]] You spread that 9 out of 10 people who got out of hospitals died! Look into the eyes of workers who have worked to save as much as possible those who are sick and receive the care they have received over the past few months, despite all the hardships of the past year. You keep a man like that warm in your bosom, and you're practically making accusations. Ask your boss. Since 2002, if you look at it, it fits very well from the required speech through the 23 million Romanians, through the eyebrows. [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] when they talk about Klára Dobrev saying that in 2008, banks had to be saved, not people are all on the ground of lying. And then you come up with a case, and you're trying to make a case out of what Lajos Kósa is exactly that he's the victim, not the perpetrator. [[Uproar, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] He was deceived. Otherwise, it wouldn't be a case if he hadn't been deceived, he couldn't have asked that question today, and he couldn't have made it look like... And the other thing that I'd like to end it with, because I've been talking too much about this thing: how do you think the government has anything to do with what the police are investigating, and there's a police procedure going on about suspicion of fraud? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-8	Now it's time for DK's representative, Lajos Oláh. I give you the floor.
u2021-02-22-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, We are preparing for a new competition in 2022, but at the same time it seems that you have not yet done an apology for election fraud in 2018, election fraud in Elizabeth and Terézváros. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What have you done?]] A cover-up case that I'm sure my colleague doesn't remember because I don't know what he was doing at the time, he was probably sitting in the bank with Lajos Kósa in Switzerland, which was about having a fake couple, the Momentum. Party. This party started in my constituency, setting itself as a true leftist, throwing a very expensive, huge number of newspapers against him, Fidesz led by István Bajkai. What happened, fellow Members? In the Signatory of the Sway Party and in the Signatories of the Fidesz 341, I repeat, 341 names were identical in their order, there was a minor problem: the signature of the names was not the same. The same nine names were on both lists who didn't have the right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, They either died or moved, but they were on both lists, and they were all on the two signatory lists, honourable fellow Members. This may have happened, possibly, by some chance, that people who have moved will sign the same thing rather than it is likely that it came from the Kubatov list to one of the signatories and came from there, honourable fellow Members, to be copied. If the government doesn't answer the questions I'm asking in the future, it means they're covering it up. Apparently, they haven't been able to answer for three years. They haven't been able to answer exactly how much they match in three years. [[Dr. Pál Völner and Károly Kontra are talking.]] You have a quick meeting, I see, because you don't know the answer, you have to figure something out quickly, but I'm sure they'll say a Gyurcsány. But my question is, how many more people have you found, because 341 was found by my electoral delegation. When we called it in, the cops came out in a rush and took the arches so we wouldn't look at them any further, and it turns out that it's not 341, it could be more. First question to the responder: how many identical names were found on the two lists, in addition to 341? Specific question, concrete answer. If there's no answer, you'll cover it up. Another: how did the nine names who didn't have the right to vote get on both lists? Have you examined whether it was from the Kubatov list? Question three: Has István Bajkai been asked about this? Did they listen as witnesses? Because in this case, one must look at the cause of the fake pair, whose purpose it was to have 341 names on the Fidesz signature sheet and the Legend fake pair's signature sheet. Have you listened to István Bajkai? I'll help you: no, but they'll try to give you an explanation. But it's unacceptable, honourable government, that you didn't get there in three years to listen to one person from 341, to whom you signed, because then you would have found out who was the one who then handed over the database. Why didn't you listen to that 341 people, respected government? What are you afraid you'll find out you're cheating? I wonder how many other areas this could have happened, because we have seen that other Members, MSZP and Jobbik, had fake signatures that they noticed. The abuse of the Kubatov list is probably part of your electoral strategy, but as Rónaszékine was defeated in 2014 with the help of Teresa and Erzsébetváros residents, in 18 we will defeat Fidesz again in the constituency, together with István Bajkai, for the third time. What I can tell you is that you can try anything, and you can be sure that all the parties in each district will check your signatures one by one, and we'll be watching that you're still a camouist. Starting in 2022 together, we will beat you one-on-one. And, Mr. Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply. If you can't answer specific questions, that means you're covering up a crime. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-02-22-10	Mr Károly Kontra has the floor.
u2021-02-22-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where the laws are binding on everyone, the authorities are acting in accordance with the procedural rules applicable to them. The Government of Hungary does not act as an authority in any criminal matter, as a investigating authority, nor does it investigate any of the cases. You, who know and is a great judge of the law, should also be aware of this, but you seem to be ignoring these rules and not taking into account the fact that you are here beating up the fake parties that the bill on tightening up the start of fake parties has not been supported, nor have you voted in favour of it. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] You didn't vote for it either, Congressman, and you preach water, you drink wine, honourable Member. I would like to point out that the government and the Ministry of Interior, unlike left-wing governments, do not put pressure on police work. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Oh, no. Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] For investigative activities. Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where no one is above the law, the laws are binding on everyone alike. In the general investigative powers of the police, criminal proceedings are always conducted, conducted and conducted in accordance with the law. In all cases, the police decide, following the discovery of all facts and circumstances and their careful and careful consideration, the need to open or conduct an investigation. In the event of detection or detection of a criminal offence, it shall take the necessary measures in accordance with the laws in force. In the performance of its duties, the police act without party policy or party influence. I ask that you, personally, respect that, do not attack the police or put pressure on the police. I can assure you that any police officer in criminal matters has a legal obligation to provide objective, impartial measures and procedures. The Hungarian police act decisively against everyone who breaks the law. The Budapest Police Headquarters Department of Corruption and Economic Crime investigated an unidentified perpetrator for suspected misdemeanor use of private documents. On 7 March 2019, the investigation was suspended with the approval of a prosecutor. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Shame! Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Since the suspension of the investigation, no evidence has been raised that would justify the continuation of the proceeding. Honourable Member, please listen to me, you asked me, you asked me to respond specifically to this matter. However, we cannot go without saying that Article VII does not apply. In the office room of the district municipality, which is used exclusively by Tamás Borka-Szász, a machine engaged in bitcoin mining was installed. Annex VII is amended as follows: district power theft is a serious matter, which requires a serious and well-founded investigation. Tamás Borka-Szász, DK VII. The act of his district politician could serve as a prohibited party financing goal. It is important that we get answers to these questions. Please, if you care about legality [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: How many of 341 people were heard?]] And it's important to comply with the law, you can assist the investigating authority in their work. And I would also like to point out that we are happy to answer the questions that Congressman László Varju, your party partner, is suspected to have offered money to an independent representative. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Uh-oh! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Wow! Németh Szilárd István: This is what they are.]] I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are confident that you will ask a question about this as well, speak before the agenda, and I would be happy to respond to your speech before the agenda. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Shame! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[11.40]]
u2021-02-22-12	Now it's time for Tamás Bellozó, on the part of the MSZP. I give you the floor.
u2021-02-22-13	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The most recent issue today is, of course, the re-election and final vote of the Delegated Act. Therefore, it will be worth considering what is in this law, why and what the government is asking Parliament here. He asked for a full mandate for regulation governance for another 90 days and asked for the re-vote of the previous 90-day measures, and asked the Parliament to state politically that everything was all right with this defence. So it is not at all what came before this House in November. Let's look at the measures. We have made it clear to all parties of the opposition that we do not support their measures to mutilate local governments, not only for political reasons, but also because we regard them as particularly harmful and directly offensive measures to this day; but such is the Covid Government Decree on the abolition of the academic semester of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, in which we have simply seen a power outburst in recent times. But what else has been going on for the past 90 days? There was, however, and there was also a fundamental amendment to the law, an amendment to the electoral law, a hundred-billion-dollar bail-out of the state's wealth, a hundred-billion-billion-billion-dollar support for friends, the people, the citizens, almost zero. Entrepreneurship grants could not be allocated in three months. There's total chaos and confusion between vaccines, and you can't even see anything about the vaccination plan. But let's face it, my fellow Members, they do not need the vote of the opposition from a legal point of view, because as a two-thirds law, it is granted to Fidesz and the German minority representative of the Fidesz Party. If they really want to take on joint political responsibility, then the right to have a say in decisions must also be given to those who are asked to do so. I'll tell you what should and should not be included in this proposal in order to be eligible. Not the measures listed above. And with an amendment, we have given you the chance to make it clear that you are playing a political circus or that you want to cooperate. These proposals were voted out by Fidesz, which made their attitude clear. And there shouldn't be any political recognition, it's not the time in any way. But if there is already the third wave on the threshold, then perhaps some important things should be involved: in terms of health care, for example, the immediate wage arrangement of nurses and nurses, which is a huge tension in the sector at present, and due to the change of model, will cause even greater problems; the transparent and fair communication of vaccines. And the decisions: please, I'll tell you again here, don't threaten the Hungarian citizens! Don't blackmail him by saying that if you don't choose what you're about to get, you'll end up at the end of the line. It's infinitely outrageous, and otherwise counterproductive, because they discourage people from vaccination. In order to finally have contact research and fair testing after a year, we recommend that every citizen be given five free quick tests every month and that there be a transparent, normal vaccination plan. As for the economy, for a living, we call on you to give your 80 percent wage support immediately to the workers in the closed sector. And you, my fellow Members, if you do not know, the European Union has just opened up a fund from which the Hungarian government could draw a billion euros if it were willing to submit its application; HUF 360-380 billion, what is the rate of the forint today. Check it out. How dare they, by whose authority, take this money away from people? ! Who asked for you? At a national consultation, did people tell you to take the money out of their pockets? Once again, how dare you take away the money that workers would receive directly from the Union? ! And here we demand a 100 percent pension, an extension of unemployment benefits for the next 90 days. Our proposal is also a vaccination voucher that should at least be considered so that anyone who gets vaccinated can spend it in the sector that is in trouble right now, which could help traffic when re-opening. And yes, speaking of tuition, we know that there is no tuition fee in Hungary, and Viktor Orbán never lies. Yet, every second university student in Hungarian higher education still pays tuition fees. We demand that 50 percent of this be released. Ladies and gentlemen, Your figures are: more than 14,000 deceased, 5.1 percent economic downturn, more than 82 percent debt to the country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is not something that needs to be politically confirmed. This bill is a lie, it cannot be voted. Thank you for listening.
u2021-02-22-14	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[Szilárd István Németh: Do I have to answer that? Why?]]
u2021-02-22-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is a very embarrassing explanation for the Hungarian opposition, the Hungarian left here in Parliament, that they have repeatedly entered the river where they do not support the government's ability to act quickly and move quickly. You know, Mr honourable Member, when we talked about the first, second, third wave, when every country in Europe formulates measures as quickly as possible to prepare for the third wave, the Hungarian opposition does not vote for this, I quote you, because you do not like what is happening to the University of Theatre and Film Arts, which, by the way, we have decided here in Parliament, as with all other trust foundations. You do not like the fact that the state gives Hungarian universities an additional HUF 1500 billion to bring Hungary to the top of the world in economic recovery. You have such reasons, you refer to laws that we are voting on here in Parliament in relation to why they do not vote for the government's possibility of extraordinary measures in the epidemic situation. Countries such as Hungary, who were able to act faster during the first wave, whether in the case of hospitals with a visitation ban, the provision of protective equipment, or the restriction of community events, curfew and everything else, in which we were weeks ahead of some countries, now, this was the speed needed to effectively defend ourselves in the past, and much less the number of people who died in Hungary last year than in other European countries. That is what it took, this mandate, honourable Member, to do this. And in this, we could not count on the left-wing parties either before, and today you have announced that no Hungarian citizen can count on the left, because your political goals are that, even in the middle of the virus situation, the left-wing policy is about fighting each other's positions, who will start in which district, how many rounds the pre-election will be, how many candidates for the Prime Minister, who will register this week, or who will be given the opportunity to start in which district, you will be dealing with this, because this is more important for you during the third wave of the epidemic than for you to support in this Parliament that the credit moratorium will continue to assist Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, to provide ten million HUF free loans to those who are in difficult sectors, and must somehow continue to operate in the coming months and years. You do not support the possibility of reduced VAT on home creation of 5% [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] They do not support measures to help people under the age of 25 not have to pay personal income tax when they work from next year. As you have done in the past, when there was an economic crisis in Hungary, which you have caused in the first place, you have taken away the 13th month allowance from Hungarian pensioners, instead of supporting crisis management measures here in Parliament and supporting the recovery of the 13th month pension that has already started this year, which has already been made a week later this year, honourable Member. That's what you really say no to. Because it has been said in many forums, we have seen it, when, whether in foreign newspapers or at home, it has been revealed that you are actually playing to the effect that if the virus, the epidemic, has more serious consequences, it will be easier for you to seize power in 2022 and to re-establish government in parliament under the leadership of the Gyurcsányek. That's what you're playing at, honourable Member. That is why they do not vote in favour of these legislative proposals and are therefore against vaccination. Instead of being happy that there are only three sources of vaccine protection outside Hungary in all the countries of the European Union, and in Hungary there are five, two more than in any other country. This is due to these powers, honourable Member. Or that by the end of May we will be able to inoculate three and a half million more people than a European Union country like us because we are getting vaccines from more sources. This is what is needed, honourable Member, for the mandate. That is why we have asked you to do so here in Parliament, and you are denying it. [[11.50]] Honourable Congressman, Anyone who obtains a vaccine from multiple sources will be able to get a vaccine sooner to inoculate people who are applying for it, and this will bring the plague to an early stage. That's why we work, and that's why not only the government, not just the operational tribe, but doctors, nurses and everyone else involved in the defense. Honourable Congressman, You're demanding a higher nurse's salary. You who took a month's salary from the Hungarian nurses during your government [[Dr. Pál Völner: Shame!]] They demand this from those who raise the salaries of nurses by 34 percent last year, 30 percent next year. Doctors' salaries are rising this year, and it will continue in the coming years. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to which you cannot give an example in Hungary or in Europe in recent decades. That's what you keep saying no to. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-16	I now give the floor to Peter James.
u2021-02-22-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues! Why do you want to deceive the Hungarian people again? A national consultation was launched, officially to ask the Hungarians how and how to open the country. The hotel of Lőrinc Mészáros announces the opening party at the beginning of April. Well, how is that, fellow Members? ! Is it not that Losol, as a friend of the Prime Minister and his faithful wallet, was informed of the outcome at the very beginning of the consultation? It's not that while other people are guessing and consulting, you guys have already wired your friends to get a little competitive edge? Colleagues! It's not fair! You're abusing trust, not the first time. This is our biggest problem, even during the epidemic, that trust is being abused. You are consulting, you already know something, you should have come out to the public a long time ago about the schedule of opening, not only Lőrinc Mészáros can plan his life, but all Hungarian people can. That's what we expect from you. Did we vote for you last year? [[Dr. Pál Völner: No!]] We voted! We voted! Have you abused your trust? Have they abused their power? [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: No!]] Dirty! They didn't remember, they didn't think about giving the employees 80% wage support! They didn't think of raising the job-seeking allowance! They did not remember to tax the minimum wage or at least to settle the situation of hospitals! Instead, what did they do? The electoral law was amended so that the opposition, let's say, would not be able to run on two lists in 22. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What does this have to do with authority? Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame! Dr. Bence Rétvári: You voted too!]] Tell me what the number of lists has to do with crisis management. What? ! Is it better for you that we're on the same list? Does that make it easier to coalition slop? Or do you think that if Jobbik and Jobbik run on a common list, we'll definitely have a better fight? Don't build a strategy on that. We have outgrown the kindergarten, as opposed to Hungary's large group prime minister [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're behind Gyurcsány, we've seen it!]] What was he doing here in Parliament last time? He did nothing but read James quotes ten years ago and Gyurcsány quotes fifteen years ago. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: It must have hurt! Moors and interrogations from the pro-government benches.]] Well, do you think that's what the Prime Minister of Hungary is doing in the middle of the crisis? ! Study old James speeches? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, you might as well study the Szájer Fundamental Law, wouldn't you? Let's say the eavesdropping part. You know, after which you felt it necessary to state in the Fundamental Law that the father is a man and the mother is a woman, because without it, you would be confused. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I believe this is also a crisis, but this is the Fidesz crisis, not the country's. Believe me, even without the Fundamental Law, Hungarian people know very well how many meters what is! Colleagues! You abuse trust, not just because you mess with the Fundamental Law and the Voters Act instead of crisis management; no, that's not the only problem. They have more serious sins: Fidesz has a disease that is more contagious than the coronal virus, called theft. They can't resist it, I can't. Last year, when we voted in favour of the authorisation bill, they immediately started to unload the money from the Economics Fund into the pockets of friends and relatives. You didn't spend 80% of the economic security fund on crisis management, you spent on yourself. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Talk about facts.]] : stadiums, hunting exhibits, Butchers, hotels of friends, and I could tell you more. But even this money is not enough for you, so last week the Ministry of Finance announced that this year the Hungarian government intends to collect more taxes on Hungarian people. Colleagues! The Hungarians lived up to all their existing savings, if they had savings, because there is a crisis. Over two million of our compatriots live under the minimum living. And then you want to collect more money from these people? So you can have something to yacht and urinate? And we're supposed to give you permission to do that? Never! You're lost! They're sitting on the other side of the horse! It's not taken from the people, it's given. The minimum wage should have been tax-free a long time ago, and the income tax of young people should not be released next year, but now. In fact, the election is next year, of course. There's a crisis now. Now's the time to give people money. You don't give, but you're asking for a hell of a lot. For example, we are asked not only to vote in favour of the delegation law, but also to bow down and acknowledge that your crisis management has been a miracle. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Minimum!]] Colleagues! Do you know the result of your crisis management so far? 14,000 dead, hundreds of thousands without a living Hungarian, looted municipalities, wealthy Orbán buddies. And you expect us to say that yes, that was a great achievement, just like that, go ahead? Colleagues! The way I see it, we don't just need a vaccine against the coronal virus, but we also need a vaccine against theft, the lying, the pride, the arrogance of power. I promise you, we will develop this vaccine, the people will give it to you. I wish you good health. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-18	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to mention a number of measures taken by the government in the event of an emergency: wage subsidies, credit moratorium, VAT reductions, housing tax, renovation program, medical salary increase, 13th-month retirement, tax exemption for young people and 10-million-dollar loan to small businesses at zero percent. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] When the transitional legal framework is not supported, these measures are not supported. Back to the past, 2008! That's it. By the way, as far as the consultation goes, you've been advertising it. It is not our fault that they are unable to publish a consultation as many as government consultations. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: state money!]] One of them was registered to an Ózd foundation, so there's an interesting phenomenon. We see another interesting phenomenon in the last few weeks: with the autumn eye-shooter combining the left-wing coalition, a division of labour was clearly formed on the left. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] And in this Jobbikra and personally you have been assigned the aggressive role of arrow or aggressive java who has nothing else to do but to gather and excite hatred, even where he wasn't before. It's a rather glorious role, but by the looks of it, you're enjoying it. The fact that you enjoy this is one thing, but your party, once an ex-national party, will not enjoy it, because Ferenc Gyurcsány will grind you up just as he has done with MSZP in recent years. Sure, you can put a buddy or two in the list seats. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] But probably not the people who are sitting around you right now, although they may not know it yet. If you have raised these questions because you are genuinely interested in how Hungarians live, then allow me to tell you what has happened in your narrower country, Borsod, in recent years: unemployment has fallen from 17 percent to 5 percent since 2010, which means 14,000 unemployed people instead of 47,000. Net average income increased by 75 percent, if I include family tax relief, it nearly doubled. The number of registered crimes decreased by 59 percent. On the other hand, hundreds of thousands of people with whom they joined together were soulless when they dealt with the crisis, unemployment doubled, who worked, was taxed to death, which is why it was worth living on welfare rather than on work. Hungarian companies have been handed over to foreigners and the IMF, and yet you have now joined forces with those responsible. They've been working with people who've been hitting floor gas at a dead end and living in a confiscated villa after the privatisation years. So much for stealing, Your Honour. You recalled that last week your earlier sentences were quoted here. I'm gonna do it now. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Peter James: Now, in the crisis, you have time to read!]] Because, referring to Ferenc Gyurcsány, his new boss, you said earlier that he was created against the Jobbik thieves. He also said it was like raisins, and you personally can't stand raisins. He also said they didn't want to give up on getting banned from Miskolc. How does that look now, Mr. Head of the Group? They also said that lower than Gyurcsány, there's only hell. [[Rumors and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik.]] Well, the thing is, you've been asked to go to this political hell, and you're going to play your sticky avalanche for a little political alms. How do they look into the eyes of those who thought they were supporting a national party? There's one thing I'd like to credit you for, so that we don't just criticize. [[James Peter: Don't praise me!]] Which, by the way, may be credited. If we can see it from their shared images, but correct us, if we're wrong, they took the photo of Gergely Pongrátz, hero of 56 off the wall in their offices, and they posted a lot of pictures of you instead, probably. Now I ask you not to stop here, so feel free to put up the pictures of the 2006 police officer, the eyeballs, and listen to the autumn speech on an endless tape. Well, that would reflect their current policy. [[James Peter: You listen to it, and you do it!]] So the thing is, Mr. Group Leader, you can't hide behind so many Parisians, you can't swing so many potatoes here, and you can't speak so loudly that you can cover up one thing, that you've joined a post-communist billionaire and destroyed a national party, and you're personally responsible for that. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Yes!]] [[12.00]] So I ask you, Mr. Group Leader, that the Parisian and the various instruments of illustration, please give them to Ferenc Gyurcsány, not to Ferenc Gyurcsány, because he doesn't need them, but to himself a few years ago, if he can even look him in the eye. We want a lot of strength for this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. James Peter intervenes.]]
u2021-02-22-20	Ladies and gentlemen, [[James Peter: Reward is due!]] I now give the floor to István Hollik, on behalf of KDNP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-22-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to talk about vaccinations, but the first word must be thanks. We cannot be grateful enough for all the doctors, nurses, nurses, health and social workers who are fighting the virus in the first row, shoulder to shoulder, and for saving human lives; thank you very much for your superhuman standing. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP.]] The world has been at war for almost a year with an enemy not visible to the naked eye, but more dangerous. It has been almost a year since we have been forced to submit our daily lives, personal comforts and freedom to the war against the Crown Virus. But like all wars, we can only defeat and win this with ammunition, the most powerful ammunition in the battle against the coronal virus, and the most effective weapon is the vaccine. As we have seen in recent weeks and months that European vaccine procurement is failing, the Hungarian government has rightly decided to negotiate all possible ways in which to buy vaccine, so that we are not fully exposed to the purchase of vaccines in Brussels. This was, of course, criticised by the left, but the Western leaders are now in the position of Hungary; just remember the words of French President Macron last week, who said that Europe needs both the Russian and the Chinese vaccine. But Hungary took its first step in this, and that is why we are at the forefront today in the area of grafting in the European Union. The grafting depends essentially on two aspects: on the one hand, when and how many vaccines we have, on the other hand, when more and more vaccine shipments are coming, but on the other, trust in vaccinations and the latter, the confidence in vaccinations is being undermined by the left with its anti-vaccination campaign and speech. It is incredibly irresponsible for the left to create uncertainty about vaccines, which is what it is doing, only to slow down the control of the epidemic, and you know very well that our left-wing colleagues in Hungary will only be vaccinated with a vaccine that is safe and approved by professionals, namely the National Centre for Public Health and the OGYÉI, i.e. the experts of the licensing authority, have carefully examined it. Just like Béla Merkely, the Rector of SOTE, recently said that the good vaccine that is already in the shoulder had been vaccinated with the Russian vaccine. But this is not enough for the left, they continue to encourage Hungarians not to be vaccinated without a European permit. That's incredibly irresponsible. On the one hand, because they ignore the opinions of Hungarian professionals, they ignore them. Do you, ladies and gentlemen on the left, really believe that Hungarian, responsible professionals would allow a vaccine on which there is any concern? We're talking about your own countrymen. On the other hand, what you're doing is irresponsible because you're slowing down defense. And it is more than irresponsible for you to do this for political reasons, just so that the dissatisfaction from slow defense falls back to Fidesz-KDNP, and for you to benefit politically. A left-wing analyst said it was your strategy, that's what they're doing. That they're doing this in the middle of an epidemic? You don't care. That their anti-inoculation mood could cost people their lives? You don't care about that either. It is often said that it is not true that we are not telling the truth, but last week you were caught by your own boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány. Last week, just a week ago in his speech to Parliament, Ferenc Gyurcsány said this: I think that sooner or later, of course, there will be a European permit for the Russian and Chinese vaccine. Therefore, when you are campaigning against vaccination, you knew exactly before, and you know precisely that these are safe vaccines, but you are recommending that Hungarian people do not be vaccinated with a vaccine that only has Hungarian permission. How, then, will our honourable left-wing fellow Members account for their conscience? [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Because there will be people who, because of your word, do not submit them, and what if they get sick, do not give, God, there will be a death among them? The vaccine can save lives, understand, in these cases, no matter where it comes from, you are campaigning against them. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Shame on you and finish your anti-vaccination campaign. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-22	Once again, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-02-22-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian left raises only one argument against the Russian and Chinese vaccine: the Chinese are Chinese and the Russian is Russian. They themselves acknowledge that they do not have any capacity to examine this in their own labs or experts, nor do they refer to any medical opinion; they say that what is Chinese should not come because it is Chinese. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, there are currently 77 marketing authorisations for medicinal products produced in China. In relation to these medicines, the Hungarian left did not speak at all, so that he would not come to Hungary, because he was Chinese. If we look a little more widely and look at the totality of the so-called GMP procedures, i.e. good manufacturing practices in Europe, we can see that there are 500 European pharmaceutical investigation documents carried out by the pharmaceutical authorities of the different states of the European Union for a manufacturer based in China. So, both at Hungarian level and at European level, we can talk about countless medicines and preparations produced in China. But the Hungarian left has not spoken before against any medicine manufactured in China, either when he was on the government or when he was in opposition, only and only the coronal virus vaccine is what he attacks because he is Chinese. What a duplicity this is on the left! You know and know well that thousands, tens of thousands of Hungarian patients may take medicines that are produced in China every day as well as the vaccine against the coronal virus, but they do not raise a word about them. But when the vaccine needed to control the epidemic comes from China, they start their political power machines and try to convince everyone everywhere not to give themselves the Chinese vaccine; in Hungarian, if there is a decision for a Hungarian citizen to submit a Chinese vaccine now, or to wait for months before another vaccine can take place, then choose to be at risk for another three months, even at the risk of the coronal virus. And last week, left-wing mayors stood up, and since then, countless left-wing politicians have said that people should reject the previous Chinese vaccine or the previous Russian vaccine, and that they should be exposed to the virus for weeks, months, and this is obviously not just a personal risk, but the virus is a Community, country-wide, and even worldwide risk, so they would slow down the fight against the epidemic by this much, while there are at least 77 products at Hungarian level and at least 500 at EU level that come from China. This best shows that this is nothing more than pure politics. As the Member pointed out, both at home and abroad, they said that they hoped for political benefits and political benefits if the epidemic persisted, that, unfortunately, more patients would mean more than one deceased in general, and that the economic effects of the epidemic would be more serious. This may be the only thing behind it, or you would also demand, honourable left, that 77 Hungarian and 500 European medicines manufactured in China be withdrawn, or that people do not take these medicines. The other 77, the other 500, why don't you say that? Why is that all they say? It shows that there's only political reason. And another example of duplicity is György, György Hiesz, who gives vaccination to himself by breaking the laws. Even though your propaganda, when they get there, they'll try to give themselves this shot as soon as possible. [[12.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, 49 percent of Israel's population was vaccinated, 25 percent of the UK population, 12 percent of the U.S. population, and almost 13 percent. This ratio is around 4 percent in the European Union, and you say that Hungary, the Hungarian government, is looking at this by hand, do not take any steps to ensure that we are at least at a level like the USA or the United Kingdom, or at least try to reach, approach, exceed, not to mention that it is already in the 50 percent of Israel. You expect the Hungarian government to stand by and watch the epidemic spread day by day; we will not do that, honourable left-wing Members. Even though your anti-vaccination campaign, which went too far again, as in the spring, when they wanted to harm Hungary, and they said on an international level that the parliament did not work, and that Hungary did not have access to EU funds; this was your last year's record. [[Gergely Harvesto: Time's up!]] This year, they're campaigning against vaccines. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We're not gonna stand for this. We will inoculate as many Hungarians as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-24	Finally, Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, on behalf of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, When experts thought before Christmas about the end of the epidemic, its run-out, its possible vaccine prevented its spread, it didn't occur in our worst dreams that reality could bring the third wave into our daily lives, but it did. That is true throughout Europe, so it is in Hungary: we have the third wave on our hands, the virus has not released anyone. If you look around, even at the examples of the countries around us, you can see that Slovakia asked for international assistance last Friday because of the lack of doctors and nurses; in the Czech Republic today shops and restaurants would have been open, but because of the deteriorating numbers, it had to be postponed; in Germany the numbers are deteriorating, and in addition, additional restrictions were decided in Finland and Greece. So it is clear that the third wave has reached Europe, that there is an increase in the number of people infected and that more and more people are receiving hospital treatment in Hungary. So this is one of the problems we have to deal with. And yet the other problem is that people want to live again, grandparents want to meet grandchildren again, people want to work again, young people want to socialize again. The solution to the two problems is clearly the vaccine and no matter what vaccine it is. As many people have quoted Professor Merkely here today, I can only refer to him: the best vaccine is already in the arm, and it is the best vaccine that the country has managed to obtain. Compared to this, it is completely incomprehensible and I am sorry to say this, given you sometimes as responsible politicians, at least hoping that you can behave in such a way that you want to run this anti-vaccination campaign. What is the reason why, with this very stupid and disdainful, two-faced double speech, on the one hand, they say that vaccination is necessary, and on the other hand, their communication outside of every parliamentary building is about making people insecure about vaccination? It is also completely incomprehensible that the consultation to help re-launch the economy is also being carried out where it is ripened. Well, why do Hungarians want to be deprived of the opportunity to make a joint, thoughtful, responsible decision again? ! An important, meat-cutting issue is the re-launching of the economy, at least as important as the control of the epidemic. We listen to the opinion of the Hungarian people, everyone can say it, you can say it. There are people who can't tell you here, and you can't represent them, so you can say it in the consultation. Some have a mature opinion, some have a debate on how to open it well. Their anti-vaccination campaign is completely incomprehensible, their anti-consultation campaign is completely incomprehensible, and it is also completely incomprehensible what Mr.Jakas Group leader is now communicating in connection with the extension of the emergency. By not voting for an extension of the emergency and today's proposal, you can safely admit to your own voters that, if it were up to you, there would be no sectoral wage support, their non-voting means abolishing the credit moratorium, abolishing the tax and contribution reduction, abolishing the cancellation of the rent, abolishing the wage increases in the home, but also abolishing some of the rules of protection. It is also unclear how, in addition to their anti-vaccination and anti-consultation campaign, they take the liberty of even attacking the government's purchase of vaccine after not voting. [[Gergely Harvesto: Are you kidding me?!]] While, by the way, the government, quite rightly, unlike the Union, has already started to purchase vaccines on a separate basis. And see, again, what will happen, as in so many other cases, is that the European Union and many of its Member States will go on a vaccine shopping tour, following the Hungarian example, and will be vaccinated with the vaccines, believe me, in a few weeks, our fellow French, German, Finnish, Swedish, Danish citizens, as they will be vaccinated with in Hungary. Please stop your anti-vaccination campaign. Human life is not a political issue [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] control of the epidemic is not a political issue. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-26	Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, will be ready to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, If you'll allow me, I'd like to give you a brief overview of what's happened recently. What does vaccination mean? Vaccination means life, jobs, and the re-launch of life and the economy. Anyone who has a vaccine can put out a person who doesn't have a vaccine, and it's not that simple. The story started with a joint EU procurement, and I have to say that the joint EU procurement was not originally or would not have been a bad idea. To represent such a community together and act on its behalf wouldn't have been a bad idea in the first place. There's one small problem: it's messed up. I would have liked that, it would have been better, and it would have been better if there had not been obvious errors in the purchase in Brussels, but they have happened, and everyone can see that now and, you know, the President of the European Commission has admitted these mistakes. These errors have led to the fact that there are many vaccines in Europe on paper, there are so many vaccines on paper that we can't do anything with it, the only problem is that all this exists only on paper. I would also like to bring the grafting data here, which was already referred to by the Secretary of State of Rétvári, because they are more important than not bringing them here again: the EU average in terms of grafting is below 4 per cent, 3.89 per cent, Israel is 50 per cent, the United Kingdom is 25 to 26 per cent and the United States is above 12 per cent. This means that 12 times as many people have been vaccinated in Israel, six times as many in the United Kingdom and three times as many in the United States as we have in Europe, in the European Union. So this is the part in Brussels. Similarly, it is important that the Hungarian left is against vaccination, according to the Hungarian left, Hungarian people do not need vaccination. [[An uproar in opposition ranks. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's not true!]] I'm not saying that! I apologize to the Members behind me, I am not saying this, said this on ATV by the spokesperson of the Satellite Party of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Momentum. I would like to quote the spokesperson of Momentum: We are members of the European Union, together we get what comes from the vaccine, we cry together, we laugh together, and the Hungarian Government is kicking this solidarity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Interview from KDNP lines: Shame!]] That is what the Momentum spokesperson, Ferenc Gyurcsány's colleague, said, and that is precisely what it means, ladies and gentlemen, that if Hungary had left-wing leadership today, regardless of whether there is not enough vaccine coming, the left would do nothing, sit back and do nothing. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would like to ask the left-wing representatives with respect why they do not want to help the Hungarian people, why they think that Hungary is Brussels and Brussels will solve it; we see that it will not solve it. Now, on the other hand, the Hungarian government has a different attitude: we chose the Hungarian way, the Hungarian solutions, and we started purchasing based on the guidelines of Hungarian professionals. [[12.20]] That was three important steps. There was a long preparation from last autumn, and then the staff of the National Institute of Pharmacy studied the documentation of the Russian and Chinese vaccine, traveled to Russia and China for an on-site inspection, after which they decided to issue a permit. And the incoming vaccines will then continue to be decided by the staff of the National Centre for Public Health after the authorisation has been granted, they will check the vaccine that has already been received, and then the vaccination can start. There is also a debate about whether Hungary and Hungarian professionals could decide whether to do so. Unfortunately, this is also a political debate on the basis of political attacks, and this would be a health issue, and it is, but it is still subject to political attacks. I would like to emphasise and make the most clear that Hungarian doctors and professionals have the right, opportunity and even the obligation to decide in such a situation, and the Hungarian professionals have fulfilled this obligation. I would also like to stress that, of course, Ferenc Gyurcsány also lied about the Chinese shipment received last week when he said that there was no documentation with him and that the employees of NNK could not start the work. All the documentation has arrived, and Ferenc Gyurcsány has the opportunity to do it every day. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So he wouldn't lie. I suggest you consider this opportunity. I also encourage everyone to participate in the consultation on reopening. And I would also like to mention, as a closing point, that shipments are coming from Russia and China. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-28	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-02-22-29	Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik; Dániel Kárpát Z. Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik; László Horváth, Fidesz; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Erik Fülöp, independent; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Gergely Arató, DK; László Varju, DK; Anett Bős, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; László Varga, MSZP; János Bencsik, independent; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2021-02-22-30	Dear House, I would like to inform you that the National Election Committee has informed you that, at its meeting on 19 February 2021, Dr. András Téglási has elected Mr. Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate you and wish you good luck with your new assignment. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Jobbik Group proposed that the Act amending certain laws on energy and waste management, adopted by the President of the Republic on 15 December 2020 on the day of the meeting of the Parliament on the basis of the fundamental law of the President of the Republic, was amended by T/13958/15 submitted by the Legislative Committee. The final vote and the debate on the amendment and report should not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has not accepted the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, at 12:25 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. [[It's a short technical break. Some Members leave the Chamber.]] I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quickly. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of the interpellation which, in accordance with our adopted agenda, the Member did not accept the response to the interpellation, the votes on the acceptance of the reply will take place in the context of today's decisions. Dear House, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. We are on the side of the countryside. Why don't you? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, he authorised the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with responsibility and competence on the subject. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It would be naive to miss what Lajos Für said in his heart-scratched grandiose tableau; this is the book Farewell from peasantry. What's it about? He says that communism and neoliberal global capitalism have unfortunately eaten up and consumed most of Europe's largest and most time, creating and preserving social form. Unfortunately, instead of an Idyllian landscape, we can also meet the chemical Latin America many times on the Hungarian Ugar. The raving gap between the billionaire oligarchs, most of your pals and the remotely periphery. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you speaking against Ferenc Gyurcsány?]] As a national and conservative party, however, we believe that Sándor Csoóri was right when he said that this country, this nation, had been held for a thousand years by the Hungarian countryside, the village. That is why we believe in Jobbik that each of our settlements is an end castle in the struggle for survival. That is why we reject all rural killing ideas, whether it is the spirit of the communist national network development concept of 1971, which actually condemned two thirds of our settlements to death, saying that they are so to say roleless, or that they should be the extreme liberal concept that said that the Hungarian village is a medieval degenerate [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Your ally! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why are you making an alliance with them?]] But let's also make it a two-thirds-regime Fidesz-murdering policy for 11 years. We'll say no to that, too. Ladies and gentlemen, The break-down in certain regions of Hungary is terrifying, and houses with broken roofs function like a time machine, as if they were flying back to Slavonia, during the Croatian-Serbian war. One of my first speeches to Parliament in 2014 was on exactly the subject that I am going to wonder what your intention is and what you have done in order to ensure that the huge real estate assets, the hundreds of billions of HUF of real estate assets that are in the countryside, are increasingly destroyed and saved. But not only do I say this, but the regional development concepts of the Fidesz county assemblies also discuss this. What are they saying? I have before me, for example, the concept of land development in Somogy County, which states that this stock of real estate should be assessed and that a programme should be developed to somehow save it, to use it for economic development, where appropriate, to launch a rental programme. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what have you done for more than ten years, why do you think only now, why have you wasted more than a decade of the future in Hungary? [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: a program from the Hungarian village!]] I don't want to hear what they're planning. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-32	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2021-02-22-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He expressed nice and important thoughts about the strategic importance of the Hungarian countryside, and that is precisely why I do not understand why your political actions are in sharp conflict with these ideas. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] and why he's attacking those government programs, and he hasn't even attacked them, he's silenced those government programs. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] which, for the first time since the change of regime, have helped the inhabitants of the smallest settlements. [[12.30]] And why are you joining the political alliance with those who lost the Hungarian countryside with their government in 2002-2010? Allow me to support my explicit incomprehension with numbers, and ask you to justify what is causing this contradiction. As I mentioned, the government's aim is to increase the economic and population retention power of the countryside, so the government has launched, among other things, the Hungarian village programme with an envelope of HUF 150 billion in 2019; in 2021, the corona virus epidemic, despite difficult economic conditions, is under way with an envelope of more than HUF 250 billion. But this is not only the only programme, there are thousands of applications and hundreds of billions of forints of funds in the area and settlement development operational programme as well. In addition, the Hungarian village programme will be further expanded not only in terms of available resources, but also in terms of usability, and is now based on four pillars. On the one hand, the village CSOK, which is specifically the answer to the problem that you have formulated in your interpellation, on the other hand, the village road base, and, on the third, the small scale application system for rural development to improve local quality of life, and, as the fourth novelty, the support of rural convenience stores. The village CHICK, once again, is the answer to the problem you have set out here. It is now available in 2678 settlements. This is 93 percent of the settlements below 5,000 inhabitants. It can amount to up to HUF 10 million, with additional interest subsidies, both for purchase and modernisation, for abandoned homes and real estate that you have formulated. The success of the program is shown by the fact that we have more than 17,000 registered applications worth HUF 91 billion. So in over 17,000 cases, the fate of the properties you listed will be solved. The village road base and the tender system are equally popular, with 100% Hungarian support, we have been able to support more than 12,000 winning applications in the form of a 100 percent advance of HUF 130 billion. I think it is a key new element to support small shops, which really makes everyday life easier for people living in the smallest settlements. There has also been no such program after the change of system, never; a store can receive up to HUF 60-70 million in support, in return it will have to be operated for five years. A total of 45 billion, 2400 affected settlements. It is likely that, according to KSH data, the difference between emigration, immigration and emigration in the villages stopped in 2019 in excess of 3714 people. These are the municipalities concerned with these programmes. I would like to ask you, if you really care about the fate of the Hungarian countryside, not to spread false news, but to go and visit the Hungarian countryside, look at it and contribute to the development that has reached these settlements over the past ten years, and according to our plans you will reach it in the next period. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-34	It's Congressman's word again.
u2021-02-22-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I live in the country, Mr. Secretary. I see what's going on. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: We too!]] I would just like to talk about my own constituency: in the last ten years, the proportion of the population living there has decreased by 10 percent. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: You have not been elected!]] This is more than Hungary, by the way, in terms of the loss of human beings in World War II. Secretary of State, you were talking about rural development, billions coming in. It doesn't matter who these money's gonna enrich. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: a program from the Hungarian village!]] There's two pockets: there's one in my mates who usually get rich, and there's one in people. We want rural people to be increased by these sources, because Hungarian people in the countryside are not second-class citizens of this country, they want to live there, not wander away for adventure. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why did you conspire with Gyurcsány? You can go with Gyurcs! Is that why you joined forces?]] They wish to be servants of the noble lords who build the new feudal system, not of the dignified NER women, or of the Fidesz women. So I can't accept your answer because the reality of the last ten years has been about something else. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: a program from the Hungarian village!]] as you've outlined here. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Dr. Peter Hoppál: The reality is that Gyurcsány is your friend!]]
u2021-02-22-36	Congressman didn't accept the answer. As I have just indicated, and this is true of all similar replies, the resolution will take place later today, in accordance with our agreed agenda. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. I give you the floor.
u2021-02-22-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, A coronal virus epidemic is not only a challenge to the health care system when treating people infected with the disease. Many interventions had to be postponed because of the epidemic or government decisions caused by it, and many new patients were unable to provide them with sufficient health care. As a result, the length of waiting lists has dramatically increased, and the waiting time has increased dramatically. While an open heart surgery had to wait an average of 56 days before, the same procedure now had to take place for nearly 300 days, 10 months. We see a similar situation in the National Institute of Cardiology, where there was no waiting time for the care of children. Now 133 days will have to wait 4 1/2 months for care, and for adults, the waiting list has increased from 77 days to 287 days, which is 9 1/2 months. In cardiac catheterisation, the waiting time increased from 11 days to 71 days. In addition, the waiting list for spinal hernia increased to 50 days instead of 5 days, the waiting list for hernia surgery to 221 days to 7.3 months, the waiting list for major surgeries in the ear-sort-oral cavity to 15 days, this is more than 4 months. These problems also occur at local level. In Szeged, for example, the Albert Szent-Györgyi Clinical Center has increased the waiting list for many interventions. There were areas where you had to wait ten times as long as you did before the outbreak. The above, of course, are only averages, because of the differences in the area of health, the length of the waiting list may differ in some parts of the country, or even a little less, or much more. An increasing problem is the absence of doctor-patient visits, the absence of screening tests and, of course, the lack of treatment. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how the Government intends to cope with a drastic increase in the demand for health services, and what plans have been made to address this burden after the outbreak of the Crown Virus. Is there such a plan? And if there's a plan, where is it available to us? What effect will the introduction of service on waiting lists have? We know very well that as of 1 March, civil servants will cease to have a relationship with healthcare workers and will be introduced within the healthcare system, with news that some of the workers have not even seen the contract. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-22-38	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-02-22-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As you and everyone else know, it was an important step in the control of the coronal virus epidemic in all countries of the world, precisely to reduce the risk of spreading the virus to sick people and, on the other hand, to provide hospital capacity for patients with coronal viruses, not only by imposing a visitation ban in hospitals, but also by delaying delayed interventions in almost every country in the world. I stress that Hungary has been able to do that only deferred interventions in hospitals are actually being delayed, so that those that would cause life-threatening problems or which would cause lasting health damage will continue to take action. This is not the case in all countries, since you have read in the news that, for example, some cancer patients in France have not been subjected to interventions, even though it is a very life-threatening situation, but yet the coronal virus epidemic has been so far beyond what the capacities of French health have been able to do, that even permanent interventions have been postponed during the epidemic. This has not happened in Hungary. Patients, patients with coronary viruses or other patients in Hungary did not lie in the corridor like in other countries, were not nursed in the hospital cafeteria as in other countries, they did not take the noninvasive ventilator out to the hospital parking lot, and they were treated in Italy in the car. This has not happened in Hungary; nor has it happened, unfortunately, in Slovakia in the last few days, of course, there has been an example in other countries of inviting doctors and nurses from abroad. [[12.40]] There was also no case of taking patients abroad from Hungary, just as they were transporting patients from France or some Benelux states to Germany. Therefore, all recognition to Hungarian doctors is that, in this critical situation, they were able to provide very well, of course, patients, whether with the coronal virus or with the non-coronal virus. Compared to this, left-wing politicians are saying that once all the doctors say that we are not going in, health care would cease, and this would be an enormous opportunity in the hands of the left. In the meantime, you are talking about such things, honourable Member, and I have tried to quote your politician, one of the candidates of the Prime Minister, as much as possible. As far as the period after the first wave is concerned, immediately the hospitals started to reduce the waiting lists, and they also worked off a fairly large part of the waiting list expansion accumulated during the first wave, because obviously the delay could have meant waiting list extension. All oncological care, now organised oncological screenings, certain cardiac care, assisted reproduction procedures must continue. Transplants may also be carried out under strict precautions, and one-day surgical treatment may be performed with a small exception from 3 February. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and How are we going to shorten the waiting lists when the plague is over? He also asked me about it. When we launched the nationally transparent waiting list tracking system, 70 170 waiting patients were on it 70 170! We have managed to do this in recent years, we have spent more than HUF 40 billion to reduce the waiting list, this year we have HUF 5 billion in the budget, and 47 healthcare providers have HUF 5 billion in additional capacity. We managed to squeeze this 70,000 into 28,000 of these extra resources during the period before the outbreak. But even if we look at the current data from February, which is the actual data from the previous six months, we can say that you had to wait 90 days for cataract surgery, while now it is 43 days, so it is much smaller. We had to wait 141 days for knee replacements in your time, while the waiting time for hip replacements decreased from 180 to 72 days during the epidemic. This is how we will reduce the waiting lists from an additional source once the epidemic is over. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-22-40	In return, I give the floor once again to a congresswoman.
u2021-02-22-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I do not accept your answer, Mr Secretary. You know, Secretary of State, the nature of the disease is such that what is not serious today, which doctors can treat today, may become serious or life-threatening in a month or two, if not treated immediately and may even cost the patient his life. Several of these cases have been reported, not by us, but by us, Members, who are ill. We understand that there is an epidemic, but after a certain period of time, it is not possible to increase people's patience and to play with their health, Mr. Secretary of State. But the only thing they haven't stopped is that we working people have to continue to pay the health contribution from month to month, even though that's why we're not getting the service that people should receive. In most cases, instead of public care, there is a need to go to the private sector for today's patients [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: It's paused too!]] To get the care. Secretary of State, you can't handle something the way you do it. I asked them if they had a plan. He didn't say one sentence about it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I've classified additional sources!]] How they're going to handle this situation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-02-22-42	The congresswoman did not accept the answer. László Varju, a representative of DK, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance.
u2021-02-22-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Today, the budget has become a formality, as according to your ignominious public finances law, virtually anywhere is transferred without parliamentary control. I could do so, and there would be no need to argue that, say, they would accept one in two points, that the government would spend as much money as it wanted, or that if, in the second case, they didn't want to do it, they wouldn't have to do it either. So in these circumstances, you lived with the mandate last year and voted for a deficit of HUF 360 billion when the budget was adopted. Instead, according to the Ministry of Finance's rapid report, the deficit was more than HUF 5500 billion, which is more than 8 percent of the estimated GDP, but you are also talking about 9 percent. So, after 11 years of government debt reduction as a priority, we managed to turn debt back to about 82 percent, to a higher level than it was when, by the way, you started governance after a global economic crisis. Then they did so vehemently that they mentioned criminal consequences to the Prime Minister. Now, I have reason to ask you all to go to jail for the 16 percent expectations, or that doesn't apply to you, and after a disturbed event, you're running a little stunned on the gutters. But how did this 5.5 billiard work out? Forints of extra spending compared to what the income was, by the way? Last year, 1067 government resolutions were taken, 373 of which took action to eradicate the epidemic in such a way that expenditure there had nothing to do with the epidemic threat itself. But fight for it and convince me, Mr Secretary of State, why it was necessary to spend HUF 180 billion in support of the churches that were deeply listening in this period, why it was necessary to spend HUF 150 billion on buying votes across borders, why it was necessary to spend HUF 84 billion on moving the government to Castle! ? Let us discuss the need to spend 186 billion forints on tourism investment by relatives and friends! But let's understand this: this is extra expenditure compared to previous subsidies, Mr Secretary of State. So all of this, however surprising, did not stop the virus, could not even stop the foreseeable decline in the economy. So, Mr. Secretary, I can ask you where our money is, but if you understand better, where's the money?
u2021-02-22-44	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Tallai. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is a special situation in Parliament, after all, that a representative of a party who has already been responsible for the country's economy, the country's budget, the country's debt, and the government's budget deficit will stand up and be accountable to the government. That, no, nearly ten years ago, you, too, tried to deal with a crisis. How have you handled the crisis and how has the current government dealt with the crisis? Yes, there is a high budget deficit, as in all other countries in the world, and also in our country, the budget deficit has increased in the year 2020 as in the European countries. The same thing happened to public debt during your crisis management: it increased. But let's see what you left behind for the new government in 2010. First of all, there was a significant unemployment rate of 12 percent, over 500,000 unemployed. Let us see now where we stand in crisis management with the unemployed: in December 2020 the same number of people worked as before the crisis. Whatever you claim, unemployment has not increased. Let's keep looking. High government deficit still, sovereign debt growth is still. In your day, people's incomes have fallen. You've withdrawn your 13th month pension, you've withdrawn your 13th month allowance from civil servants, you've withdrawn your 13th month allowance, and overall, people's incomes have been reduced. In the same way, the government deficit is increasing, public debt is increasing, income has fallen only in your time, and people's income is increasing during the current crisis management, net wages are 9,6 percent in January 2020 and real wages by 6 percent. Yes! Do you know what Ferenc Gyurcsány, your boss, obviously a friend of yours, said when he was asked at the time that all the credit they took from the European Union, the World Bank, went where? He said wages and pensions. He left, and yet people's incomes fell. [[12.50]] And then you know the difference between you and the crisis management of the current government? That Hungary has had an investment of HUF 1676 billion in the past year, and not a single forint in your time. No investors were interested in Hungary, because Hungary was a bankrupt country. And do you know the difference between your crisis management and the crisis management of the current government? That you didn't have to face a global epidemic, you didn't have to fight for people's health, you didn't have to fight to keep health from crashing, like in Slovakia, for example, it almost happened. Yeah, and that's money, and if you have a lot of 5500 billion deficits, then think about what this government has done to ensure that crisis management is in place at international level. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] With all due respect, I would like to ask you to reconsider the situation of crisis management and the current crisis management. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-46	I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer.
u2021-02-22-47	Mr President, I cannot accept the answer, there are many reasons for this. In a sense, the Secretary of State may be right that, yes, tens of years ago, it was on pensions and wages, which, by the way, had to be worked out afterwards, and what did you spend instead? That is what I am asking, and the Secretary of State could not convince me why more than 370 out of 1067 government resolutions had to tell me to spend 215 billion forints on sport, to spend 140 billion forints on defence, or to spend on Zsolt Semjén's favorite entertainment and world hunting exhibition. That's what's unacceptable, Mr. Secretary, so you couldn't convince me, and I respectfully tell you, in other countries, they didn't spend any money on this, but on people, their lives, and they were saved, not themselves and their buddies. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-22-48	The congressman didn't accept the answer. Krisztina Hohn and Péter Ungár, representatives of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. I give the floor to Peter Ungár. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In an earlier interview in the morning, the Prime Minister said that although many tend to forget this, social workers have also done outstanding work in recent months. This term is outrageous because the only person who has forgotten what work social workers have done during the coronal virus epidemic is you, the Hungarian Prime Minister. So instead of teaching everyone who forgot about this, he should be the one to acknowledge that he hasn't dealt with social workers since the outbreak started. Social workers are still the worst paid Hungarian state workers, and 75% of them earn the same amount as the guaranteed minimum wage. According to one research, only 4 percent of social workers received a 100% pension when they couldn't work because they were infected with the Crown Virus, they did so again with a humiliating salary, and thousands of people are still missing from the social services system as workers because of the fact that they hadn't paid wages in ten years. The last time there was a wage increase in the social sector and in the public sector in Hungary was when there was a left-wing government, and it seems that it would take a left-wing government to raise wages again among civil servants. The fact is that social workers are doing a job that if they didn't do, the Hungarian economy would collapse, which if they didn't do, people who produce GDP would not be able to participate in the primary labour market, so their salary is not a luxury thing, but it is to ensure the functioning of the Hungarian economy. It would cost HUF 45 billion for a single HUF 500,000 wage supplement for social workers, and you spent HUF 47 billion on sports subsidies at the end of last year. It is not true that there would be no money, and this 45 billion would be included in the Hungarian budget, and it would be a good place for social workers to receive the one-time payment of HUF 500,000. At least thank them orally for the work, with such wages there is only one real form of thanks, and this is the wage arrangement, the one-off wage supplement. Because thanks can't buy the child a school bag and pay the rent, that can only be done by raising wages. Social workers are on the verge of exhaustion. People couldn't see their children for weeks when the virus got into an institution because they had to move in. In addition, part of the social sector, the basic supply has been left out of the vaccination schedule, so those who have increased burdens as family supporters, or those who work on Hungarian farms have not received, have not progressed in the order of vaccination, showing that the Ministry of Human Resources does various historical work instead of dealing with what is really their job, and that is to treat the social care system. So my request, Mr Retvári State Secretary, is to speak of reality instead of the usual 1975 production report.
u2021-02-22-50	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-02-22-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We agree on one thing in relation to your speech, honourable Member, that all social workers should be honoured, because they were in a difficult situation or during the coronal virus epidemic, today with greater protection, as vaccinations have been carried out in the majority of the sites. We have seen other countries that in other countries certain social workers have left the elderly, helpless people who eventually died in this; in Hungary, thank God, we cannot talk about this. But this is about as far as I agree with what you said. You said the last time there was a wage increase under the left-wing government in the social sphere, honourable Member. It is easier to deny few things; perhaps only one word should be exchanged in this sentence: last time there was a wage reduction under the left-wing government in Hungary in the social sphere. You have joined forces with left-wing representatives, who voted here in the Hungarian Parliament to reduce wages in the social sphere. Say, István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, László Szakács, Gergely Arató, Ferenc Gyurcsány, László Hajdu, Lajos Oláh, Ágnes Vadai, László Varju, Sándor Burány. They're all your allies. You're running with these politicians in the election, even in the previous election, and now you're all gonna be on a list. They were the ones who voted here in Parliament to reduce the salaries of social workers by a month's wage. Now he has forgotten to mention it, but he wants to be in government with them to continue where they left off, and that is when they took away some of these people's salaries. I am not talking about the fact that it was not voted in 2016 to pay tribute to their work on the day of social work, which was unanimously not voted by the left. That's half of it. So what could be said, Congressman, is that last time the left-wing government reduced their salary. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] What has the Fidesz-KDNP government raised in the social sphere? In 2014, we introduced the sectoral wage supplement for 90,000 employees with an annual surplus of HUF 12 billion. In 2015, we introduced the sectoral wage supplement, which is an average gross HUF 16 thousand, of which 66 418 people benefit from this annual additional cost of HUF 16 billion. We added HUF 9 billion in 2017-18 to a combined sectoral wage increase, with an average salary increase of HUF 35,000 more than 14,000. So there was also one that, overall, increased the salary of all those working in the sector, and one that raised to those with higher experience and higher education. The social sector allowance continued last year, with a total wage increase of 14 per cent last year, which meant an average of 30 thousand forints. This means that wages in the social sphere have increased by 110 percent over the past period. That is what you said, honourable Member, that there is no such thing. I can also tell you that vaccinations have already been carried out in 1887 sites from 1939, taking priority over social workers and caregivers, because their service has been very valuable in recent years, and we are trying to protect them even before others. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-52	I salute my fellow Members. I give you the floor and ask you to accept the Secretary of State's answer, Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2021-02-22-53	Thank you, I cannot accept the answer. The last thing that this House gave to civil servants was a substantial wage increase during the 100-day programme, which you also supported, which I referred to under the left-wing government. The fact is, he told me a lot of things, but he couldn't tell me why the one-off HUF 500,000 salary supplement that was due to social workers wasn't paid out. [[13.00]] There were a lot of numbers, a lot of things, and I couldn't tell you that, and in the last year, Fidesz couldn't make a sane argument, but they were mumbo jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo-jumbo. The other is about the vaccination schedule: it is good to inoculate the person who works at the site, but also the primary care workers should be taken in advance in the vaccination order, because they also have an increased burden during the coronal virus epidemic, and it is simply incomprehensible why they have been left out of it. If you would accept good proposals that come out of good intentions, you would take them ahead of the vaccination plan. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-54	Thank you very much, Congressman Ungar. I give the floor, and I do not give the floor, but the opportunity, in accordance with our adopted agenda, because the Member did not accept the answer, to take a decision on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When will the government finally take rapid, effective, real support measures to ensure the survival of the host small and medium-sized enterprises? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2021-02-22-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Covid 2021 opposition investigation committee has started its operation. I know this doesn't matter to you, because in the last ten years, no committee of inquiry has ever been supported, while, by the way, before 2010, you have always wanted to set up such committees of inquiry, but we know that your meeting will determine your position. The bigger problem is that you're not interested in entrepreneurs who are in the most difficult situation right now and have no fidesz connections. It would be worth listening to, for they know exactly what help they need. I'm sure you know better than the luxury park hall. On the committee of inquiry, Mátyás Csörgics, Vice President of the Association for the Night City, came up with many constructive proposals that could help the hosts. They believe that full electronic administration should be ensured, because on paper, on paper, it is obsolete, cumbersome and slow. Wage support should be increased from 50 percent to 70 percent, because 50 percent is no longer enough for them. The pay and support of employees should be handed over directly to the Treasury, the whole administration, the tasks and the responsibility of entrepreneurs, which would be a great help to them. They still have a number of fixed costs, in addition to falling or no revenue. For example, in the case of overhead costs, the standby fee, which is more challenging than they thought, would like a moratorium on the latter. It would be good to move these pockets between the so-called pockets of SZÉP cards, for example, from the stuck leisure or accommodation pockets to the use of hot food. It would be important to keep the 5-percent restaurant VAT after opening, after the restriction, thus increasing demand. It would make it easier for the hosts to make a business plan. In fact, it is suggested, after opening, that the government should issue a voucher for a British and Australian sample to boost demand. Australian example is a fixed amount, a hundred Australian dollars, in England, for example, half of the account is held by the Treasury. Dear Secretary of State, What would the government take over from these proposals? That's my question. Knowing you, please spare me the answer that everything is wrong now because Gyurcsány is Soros and Brussels. Tell the hosts what the government will take over of these completely constructive proposals and if it does not take over, why it will not take over. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-02-22-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-02-22-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me, honourable Member, to begin by drawing attention to the fact that your speech is suitable for everything but for a true and accurate assessment of the situation. Just because what you're talking about isn't a committee of inquiry, it's purely left-wing profit. Such a committee of inquiry does not exist in reality, honourable Member, and you know it very well. With that power, you could say that you are the Pope of Rome or the President of America. You can say that, but that doesn't make it true. Honourable Congressman, I suggest, above all, that you do not interpel in the affairs of new committees or existing committees here in Parliament, but first of all, that Lajos Korózs Kamuvideos may still be the chairman of the Health Commission, even though we all know that he is a fake publicist in the main job. Honourable Congressman, It's also quite alarming that you want to do a political circus over and over again, and that's what this thing you call a committee of inquiry is all about, and you're not ashamed of trying to take up the time of the leaders of defense. That's why they wanted Miklós Kásler, Müller Cecilia, to stop their work, to take their time. This is another obstacle, honourable Member, to defence, to political hysteria and not to defence. Honourable Congressman, So we can conclude that you are only an obstacle to defense, you are producing fake news, you are producing fake news, and you are attacking defense leaders without shame, health workers and health authorities, and you are trying to throw Hungarian people into uncertainty with your anti-vaccination. Mr President, I would very much ask you to stop this. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, it is an important thing, and you can try to hide it, but we have to say: if it were up to you, there would be no wage support to help businesses. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] After all, they have stated well in advance that they are not willing to vote in favour of the bill on the extension of the emergency. Look into the eyes of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises and tell them that you do not want to give them wage subsidies [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Who doesn't want to?]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] After all, they have stated well in advance that they are not willing to vote in favour of the bill on the extension of the emergency. Look into the eyes of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises and tell them that you do not want to give them wage subsidies (intercom from Jobbik: Who does not want to?) He doesn't want to give them any help because he refuses to cast one vote in order to give these companies the necessary support. Honourable Member, look them in the eye and tell them that from midnight today there would be no credit moratorium, no tax and contribution reductions, no rent waiver, no sectoral wage support and no protection measures. Congressman, look them in the eye and tell them. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw attention to the fact that, in the framework of sectoral wage support, businesses have so far submitted applications for nearly 113 thousand employees, the vast majority of which were micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with over 98 percent of the aid needs received already being carried out by government agencies in the form of advances. Honourable Congressman, You asked me, among other things, about the SZÉP card. Allow me to draw attention to the important aim of the SZÉP card is to stimulate domestic tourism and there is a great need, and this year it is even more necessary to boost the traffic of accommodation providers who are in an economically difficult situation. So we continue to propose and we consider it appropriate to regulate the use of available resources on the ears to which workers have requested it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give you the floor to accept the Secretary of State's reply to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio.
u2021-02-22-59	Thank you. I hope I get an extra 30 seconds. Mr Secretary of State, after this answer, I do not know how you will face the hosts, because that answer was a shame. Secretary of State, you didn't do your job. I sent this interpellation to you on Wednesday, and it included these proposals point by point. He was able to respond, but it was also a very weak answer, nothing could be responded to by accepting it, or if it was not accepted, why it was not accepted. That would have been your job to justify it. It is clear that the hosts are asking for this support because the measures so far are not sufficient, they point out that they are in a very difficult situation, so in vain they say that the measures so far are sufficient. Secretary of State, the hosts, just to understand, are in a situation like Prime Minister Viktor Orbán: they have no savings [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] No, they're in debt, and we don't understand why the Prime Minister doesn't show solidarity with them. So neither the hosts nor I can accept that answer, Mr. Secretary of State. [[13.10]]
u2021-02-22-60	Thank you very much; Mr President, you did not accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, József Kovács, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:. How is the acquisition of vaccinations progressing? It's an address. Mr József Kovács has the floor.
u2021-02-22-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The epidemic is taking off again all over Europe, unfortunately. In countless countries, they are already defending themselves against the third wave of the virus and imposing strict restrictions one by one. Epidemiology data also show an increase in Hungary, so we need all the vaccines. Only vaccination can save lives, economies and jobs. Unfortunately, due to the slowness of the European Commission, mass coronal virus vaccination has still not started in the EU, and Hungary is forced to seek its own sources of vaccine procurement. We need to get as many vaccines as possible, while in our country the left does nothing about vaccines but create fear and uncertainty in people. Of course, secretly, they're outlawing the system, running around for vaccination, encouraging people to fight vaccination. Obviously, they're trying to get political benefits from the epidemic. Please stop this as soon as possible. Only a safe vaccine tested by the Hungarian authorities can be presented to the Hungarian people. As we know, the virus cannot be stopped without the vaccine, because it will constantly return in new waves, so we need all the vaccines to achieve flock vaccination. We can see that the EU countries are unfortunately at a disadvantage in terms of vaccination numbers compared to other regions of the world. Despite the uncertainties of the European vaccine supply, however, we will be able to inoculate 3.5 million more people in Hungary by the end of May than a European Union country of similar size using only Western vaccines. Dear Secretary of State, The vaccine is a condition for restarting the country. The government and professionals are working hard to get as much as possible. In light of all this, I respectfully ask you how the purchase of vaccinations is currently progressing. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-22-62	Thank you very much, Congressman József Kovács. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2021-02-22-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We look like this: Hungary has signed an agreement with Russia and China to buy vaccines; we were the first and we are in this regard in the European Union. Of course, the contract and purchase, the agreement was preceded by a thorough examination and decision of Hungarian professionals on the safety and efficacy of vaccines. China and I have agreed on 5 million doses of vaccine. The Chinese Sinopharm vaccine this Sinopharm is a Chinese state vaccine manufacturer, the largest public vaccine manufacturer, so we made a deal with it for 5 million doses, so it will be enough for 2.5 million people. Transport takes place at four stages: February, March, April and May. The first shipment from China, as known, arrived last week. This means that the first shipment came before the contract should have arrived, because the first turning point, the first deadline is the end of February according to the contract, but the first delivery arrived in mid-February, and 500,000 doses were delivered instead of 500,000. This means that in the first round there was enough Chinese vaccine for 275,000 people last week. Following the arrival of this vaccine, the National People's Health Centre started the study that the experts of NNK had to carry out after the arrival and, as the NNK provided information, this study was completed. The vaccine and its documentation, which, of course, has arrived the documentation that should arrive at this time, has arrived, contrary to the lies of Ferenc Gyurcsány, so the documentation and the vaccine have been found appropriate. So, if I've seen the experts' information correctly, this week the Chinese vaccine can also start vaccination. With Russia, 2 million doses, and since this is also two-dose, we have agreed on enough vaccines for one million people. So far, 40,000 of these have arrived; another 100,000 are expected to arrive tonight. We expect significant quantities this week and in the coming weeks. This overall means, as Mr President pointed out, that by the end of May, by the beginning of summer, we will be able to inoculate 3.5 million more people than an EU country of similar size. With 3.5 million people, everyone can see and read from my mouth the magnitude of this. However, I find it dangerous that some Gyurcsányist, left-wing politicians want it and have proposed or are fighting to prevent vaccination with Russian and Chinese vaccines in the district or city they run. I think it's an extremely irresponsible and dangerous behavior. The vaccine is free and voluntary, so each person can decide whether to take the vaccine or not to take the available vaccine. The fact that Gyurcsányist politicians want to take this option away from the Hungarian people is irresponsible, but it could also be said that it is depraved, because in some parts of the country there may be a case of vaccination in many settlements, while in the Gyurcsányist, left-wing districts and settlements there are empty places, because left-wing politicians have decided to do so. I think that would certainly be inappropriate. Perhaps even more that Sputnik has been approved in 29 countries. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Sinopharm has been used in 17 countries so far. We will continue to do the work in the coming period. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-22-64	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer. I'll ask Congressman Kovács to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-02-22-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I accept Mr State Secretary's reply and I take this opportunity to thank, in addition to answering, Minister for Foreign Affairs, personally and to thank you and your colleagues for the intervention that has been being expressed in this work for many months and for doing this work very effectively. In addition, I would like to thank the government agencies for their excellent organizational work throughout the country, which is a logistical part of these vaccinations, and, of course, in this case, the health workers, the fire point organisers and the staff working there. By the way, every hospital where vaccination is given will require at least 40-40 injection points from this week, which is a very large number. Everyone, please. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to sign up, register, and be vaccinated for the common good of all of us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-22-66	Thank you very much, Congressman Kovács. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: a modern road network, a modern economy! It's an address. At the request of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, who is responsible and competent under the theme, will respond to the interpellation at the request of Prime Minister Balázs Orbán, State Secretary. I'm asking you to accept the response. [[János Stummer nodds.]] Thank you. You have the floor, Chairman Stummer.
u2021-02-22-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, Certain Fidesz MEPs and their luxury wives living in their suburban villas are obviously new to what I'm about to say, but in 2021 hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary still live in streets in the area that are not ripped off. The balcony of the Buda Castle cannot be seen here, of course, but it is still true that in 2021 the streets of low-quality or even solid housing are still hitting each other in rural Hungary. [[13.20]] It's a long way from your offices, and so the Puskás Stadium is probably interfering with the Prime Minister's view from there, the Carmelite, and it would be a great job for court vendors to march up these streets, so the nation's beggar doesn't notice the task. But those who live in these streets, these citizens, pay taxes just as decently as a lot of people in this country. They pay the weight tax on the car, they pay excise duty for fuel, and they pay the highest VAT in all Europe for every shopping, and they are worth no less than any citizen living in the city or in a gentleman's district. But when the sky goes down and it rains for days, they still have problems with what's natural to everyone else. The problem is that they can go shopping at the store, have trouble picking up the child at school or kindergarten, or that they can get to work in time, and do so so that when they get home at night, they do not sit down at the family table for dinner like warthogs. I think that this is not such a huge request in 2021, almost 20 years after EU accession and 30 years after the change of regime. I hear that in the next few years, in the next EU budget cycle, you will be pouring money into the countryside, knowing yourselves, probably in order to win the next parliamentary election, which you will not succeed. Mr. Secretary. Let me ask you this: if there is one way, it would be possible, in this next budget cycle, not to fill the pockets of friends with them, so that, for example, at our place in Békés, György Simonka does not fill the pockets of corrupt criminals like themselves and their own, but rather to spend these European Union funds for meaningful purposes, for example, to pave roads, fill the potholes, repair the pavements fairly, be a normal drainage or a modern utility network in every settlement. I think it is not too much to ask in 2021, and that is what these people want. Mr. Secretary. For my part, I am very interested in the answer that you are finally willing to do your duty after ten years of government, and I believe that I am not alone in this, many peaceful citizens expect the same answer from you. Here you go. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2021-02-22-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Road network development is indeed an important basis for the economic, commercial and social modernisation of an area, so it has been before, and so it is now. I would like to respond to one thing, if I may, because your speech could be a point of agreement between us, but it also contained political accusations. Let me draw your attention to one thing: on this side of the parliamentary horseshoe, there are Members sitting on the government side, who, outside Budapest, have been authorized by voters to represent them in Parliament, not on that side. This is probably because voters are not sheep, and they do not fall for this cheap propaganda they hear from you, but they are entrusting the representatives of the locality with the representation of the things in the particular district, who are able and able to improve. Last time, they even proved this in an interim election, where they also voted in confidence for the Fidesz candidate. [[Interview from Jobbik: Was it so in Dunaújváros?]] After 12 years of government, not your anti-Semitic and scandalous candidate. And by the way, let's talk about something more important: national road network development. The government's goal, that's what we talk about every day, is to get a four-track highway within 30 minutes of every settlement in the country. In 2010, 14 county-righted cities and 3 national borders were available on motorways, in 2020 19 county-righted cities and 7 national borders, and by 2025 23 county-righted cities and 19 national borders will be available under complex road renovation programmes. The renovation of the M44 road improves the quality of life of people living in the county of Békés. 444 kilometers of highways and 119 kilometers of side roads were renewed. It's a nationwide record of 69 billion forints. And the program continues: 28 national road development and 4 rail development will take place in the coming years from HUF 2400 billion. This means about 800 kilometers of highways and motorways. In addition, we also have our village program, the Hungarian village programme, one of the important pillars of which is the village road base. Its main purpose is the renovation of lower, state-reserved roads 3, 4, 5 figures inland and outer areas. In two years we have provided nearly 122 billion forints, in which we have renovated a total of 1,300 kilometers. Up to 22 km, the road section is expected to be developed. This is also the case in the case of municipal reserved roads, that we advertise by tender to settlements with a population of less than 5 thousand plus road renewal programs, and I will say the latest figures for 19 billion forints were won in the last round of applications to improve the state of their inner and outer roads by the municipalities, regardless of their political affiliation. In the case of Békés county, I have already mentioned the renewal of the M44, but further road renovation programs are running only in Békéscsaba for HUF 3 billion, a further HUF 7 billion in 180 streets 83 kilometers of sidewalk are renewed, and so far 23 kilometers have been renewed throughout Békés county, 34.5 kilometers this year. We are continuing the program, regardless of the untruths you are claiming here in this House. To this end, I call for the support of the individual constituencies' pro-government representatives on this side. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-02-22-71	I don't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I think that whoever builds the way is building the future, Mr. State Secretary, but you are not building a future, but you have been building the oligarch literature with which Hungary has been captured for ten years. I am asking you, though, that peas may have been thrown to the wall in the next EU development cycle, that, for once, not the pockets of your friends, but the potholes in the countryside in Hungary and in the county of Békés, will be filled with promises. In the last few weeks, they have told us how many hundreds, how many thousand billion forints they will focus and send to the Hungarian countryside in the coming years. Compared to this, the Secretary of State's response to the renovations of HUF 4-5-6 and HUF 7 billion was very revealing. The Hungarian countryside needs historical infrastructure development. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-72	Thank you very much. Congressman Stummer did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today at our meeting. Dear Parliament, László Földi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for families:. How does the economic re-launch action plan help Hungarian families? It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2021-02-22-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Fidesz-KDNP Party Association has supported Hungarian families, family formation and childbearing to an unprecedented extent since its administration. We can remember that during the crisis in 2008-2009, the government of the day did not help families, but in the form of various tax increases, and pushed them into foreign exchange loans and foreign currency debt. Since 2010, every year, the government has supported young people's start-ups, home-buildings and family formations. Under Fidesz-KDNP, support for families has increased by two and a half times, one of the highest in Europe. Family-friendly governance has helped Hungary achieve the second largest economic growth in the European Union in 2019 and the desire to have children has grown the most. Dear Secretary of State, One of the government's first decisions after 2010 was to introduce a family tax relief for children. Later, new measures came in, including the family home-building discount, which was extended with the village CSOK, the baby shower support, the four-year-old mother's absence. Families have also been able to buy a discount car, which has already been used by more than 20,000 families. [[13.30]] Unfortunately, the Crown Virus pandemic did not escape our country. The government will do everything in its power to alleviate the economic damage and to give all the help to businesses in distress, the Hungarian families in distress. As a result, the fourth quarter of 2020 shows an increase of 1.1 percent compared to the previous quarter. It should be pointed out that the government is not responding to the economic situation caused by the virus with austerity, but, on the contrary, it offers many opportunities and support to families in the context of the economic recovery action plan and even expands the range of family support measures. With the agreement of KDNP, the government introduced a credit moratorium and provided wage subsidies for sectors in difficulty, and provided investment aid to 1500 Hungarian companies, which contributed to the preservation of hundreds of thousands of jobs and the creation of tens of thousands of jobs. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary how the economic recovery action plan helps Hungarian families, with which new measures have been added to the family support system. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-22-74	Thank you very much, Congressman László Earth. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary.
u2021-02-22-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, the issue of support for families and support for home creation show the difference between the crisis management of the former left-wing government and the current national government. It is good to remember that before 2010, in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, families were only taken away from them, that they abolished the home creation system at that time, reduced the duration of the child and reduced the family tax relief. During the period of previous left-wing governments, they did not help, they did not support, but we can say that they punished childbearing and child rearing. Dear Parliament, In 2010, there was a family-friendly turnaround in Hungary. The government's goal is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children. In 2021 around HUF 2300 billion is available in the budget to support Hungarian families. Indeed, this means that since 2010, this figure has increased by 2.5 times and is indeed one of the highest in all Europe, representing 4.5 percent of GDP. Between 2010 and 2022, the amount of support for baby care increased more than double, and the Parliament adopted in the autumn the law under which from 1 July 2021 the infant care fee, the amount of the child care fee, increased from 70 per cent of gross salary to 100 per cent of the previous 70 per cent of gross salary. We do not abandon the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. From 1 January 2021, Hungary's largest home creation programme has been launched in the framework of the economic re-launch action plan. In this context, from 1 January 2021, the VAT on newly built properties decreased from 27 per cent to 5 per cent, if a person uses a CSOK, then the remaining 5 per cent does not have to pay VAT. If a couple or family who are about to have children buy a new or used home from 1 January using CSOK, they shall be exempt entirely from the payment of a 4-percent acquisition fee. Also from 1 January, the State will take over half the cost of renovating their existing home from families with at least one child to HUF 3 million, and those who do not have the appropriate self-reliance to use it will have the home renewal loan from 1 February, with a maximum of HUF 6 million for a maximum duration of 10 years and a maximum interest rate of 3 per cent. From 1 January 2021 the maximum amount of CSOK, HUF 10 million, can be used for attic construction as well. From the beginning of the year, the list of settlements where the village CSOK can be used has been expanded. I think that these are important steps, and they help not only Hungarian families, but also Hungarian businesses, thus helping to preserve existing jobs, create new jobs, and help to restart the economy. In addition, the amount of ged and diplomat increased in relation to the 2021 minimum wage increase, and the children's home care fee, the amount of weed, also increased again from 1 January. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With these measures, we will also make the lives of families safe, liveable and predictable, which is why we will continue to work in the future. Thank you very much for your attention, and please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm gonna ask Mr. Earth Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-02-22-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer, all the more so, because in the constituency where I live, about 106 thousand people live, and we find that they are increasingly using all forms of CSOK. We had villages where, for example, 6-8 years ago, there were many empty homes, and today there are no more, because these apartments were sold out with exactly the possibility of village CSOK. But not only did I ask these questions, but also because I have four children, and the future of the four children doesn't matter what it will be, and I look with confidence at the future of my children, too, at the opportunities provided by family support for them. I'll take your answer, I'll say it again. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: the fact that Hungarian citizens are the victims of any form of exploitation or minors is incompatible with the values of Hungary. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2021-02-22-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The quote by Mr Pintér came from Minister Sándor Pintér, who replied to my previous written question on trafficking in human beings and child prostitution, among other things. It is only possible to agree with the Minister's statement, but the question arises whether the government will comply with child prostitution. In my previous questions on the subject, I called for a report by the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a source, which painted a devastating picture of the human trafficking situation in Hungary, which showed precisely and in detail how Hungary's action against child prostitution deteriorated dramatically between 2010 and 2018. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs report also drew attention to the fact that many children living in children's homes are victims of sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings, who can become victims once they return to their homes. I raised these problems here at the meeting regarding a bill on the subject. At the time, Minister of State, Pál Völner, said that the situation in Hungary after 2010 did not deteriorate, that only during the Obama administration the then government had a better press than the Fidesz government had during that period. Recently, the Hintalovon Foundation published a report on the situation of child prostitution, including in Hungarian terms. The report is devastating. In the European Union, surveying 2015-16, half of registered sexual trafficking victims were of Hungarian origin, 647 out of 1310 were children, 64 percent were children and 7.4 percent were children under 11 years of age. 414 Hungarian children were victims of prostitution crimes in 2015-16. I think we can say that we would be satisfied if this number was zero. But the report also points out that it confirms all the circumstances that I have touched on in my previous questions: the vast majority of children exploited come from extreme poverty, most of the children exploited come from a more backward region of the country. So I ask you, Mr State Secretary, when are you finally planning to take real action against child prostitution, and the reason why this issue is very important today is because we know very well that these problems are being strengthened by crisis situations. I ask Mr Secretary of State that you now have a survey of how many children suffer from this crime and what actual steps you intend to take to drastically reduce this number. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[13.40]]
u2021-02-22-80	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-22-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Security is the most important Community value today, especially when it comes to the safety of our children, and allow me to confirm the statement by Minister of Interior, Mr Pintér, which you quoted. It is not compatible with our country's core values that its citizens become victims of any crime. The government remains committed to reducing trafficking in human beings and child prostitution. A number of measures have been taken, which are a major step forward in the fight against these acts. Allow me to list some of these here as well. The government adopted a strategy against trafficking in human beings for the period 2020-2023. The specific chapter of the strategy includes measures to help, protect and prevent victims under the age of 18. Act V of 2020 amending certain laws necessary to combat the exploitation of victims of trafficking in human beings, the Criminal Code, the Child Protection Act, the Act on action against organised crime and the Violation Act contribute to better protection of potential victims. Police continue to pay particular attention to the implementation of criminal, crime prevention and victim support tasks. In the fight against trafficking in human beings, the national coordination mechanism led by the Ministry of the Interior plays a prominent role, and there is also a round table of civil society organisations, in which the National Police Headquarters is also actively involved. In addition, in order to increase the effectiveness of investigations, a leader of the human trafficking profession has been appointed at all county and capital police headquarters, who manages and conducts specific investigations on a professional basis. Detectives are taking regular training. Don't let it, don't let it! In the framework of a campaign against trafficking in human beings, personal discussions, joint debates and awareness-raising will continue in the online space during the period of the pandemic. County Police Headquarters are giving lectures and training under the General Crime Prevention Hours, the DADA and the Anti-SECT Programme. The Ministry of Human Capacities has launched its training "Identifying and managing the harms caused by contact violence and trafficking in human beings." And what contradicts what was said at the beginning of your interpellation, the TIP report of the United States Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2020 in advance of a category, Tier 2 has once again classified Hungary as a category in advance, i.e. it assessed it to the right, as opposed to what you said, which contradicts your claims. One of the main reasons for this was the adoption of Law V of 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The legislator, the police and the co-governments are taking real and effective steps to reduce trafficking in human beings and child prostitution. We are also aware that more needs to be done in this area tomorrow than we did yesterday or the day before, and that the government is determined to take action to reduce human trafficking and child prostitution. Indeed, I also think that the greatest goal possible is that no such crime should occur, but I think that these measures, these legislative amendments, the adoption of these legislative proposals, have brought us all closer to moving forward in this direction. This is proven by the American evaluation, and the government is determined and ready to do even more to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you agree, please accept my answer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask the congresswoman, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2021-02-22-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I cannot accept the answer, because I wanted to see the Minister of State give real figures that say, last year or before last year, we could talk about how many children and how many sexual exploitations we could talk about, because here, in my interpellation, I said that more than half of the report of the year 15-16 came from Hungary in the European Union and 64 percent were children. You also know, Mr State Secretary, that there is not enough professional staff in Hungary to deal with this situation. He also knows that the courts do not have uniform practices in the area of sanctioning child pornography, as I did in the interpellation submitted. This was shown in particular by the Kaleta case. And I really wanted you to say that we didn't just move forward with one category, and it's commendable that we were able to improve this situation at least a minimum. But that's when I read in the report, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 7.4 percent of these children are under 11 years old, I think that there is no tool that the government should do...
u2021-02-22-84	Thank you.
u2021-02-22-85	...and we see that there are few assets in the hands of the current government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-02-22-86	Thank you very much. The congresswoman did not accept the answer. Therefore, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, Anett Bősz, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office with the title of "Madern Cities'. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor.
u2021-02-22-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, What is new is that you divide citizens into first and second order. This time, the citizens of the larger settlements were made second-class; the loss of revenue due to the waiver of the business tax was not corrected, unlike the smaller cities. You don't seem to know the difference between the development and the operating budget. As an ectant example of this, billions are spent in small settlements on stadiums that can accommodate the entire population, which the settlement will no longer have money to maintain in the near future. They provide development aid to the municipalities within the framework of the Modern Cities programme, but their operating costs have been cruelly sabotaged through tourist tax, parking fees, rent of municipal restaurants, business tax, car tax and solidarity contributions. It is hardly contrary to their intention to create a false impression that while the government supports the development, the leaders of the municipalities will render their own settlements inoperable. This is obviously why the 12 county-righted city, which has chosen government leadership for a year and a half ago, was given emergency aid in the order of 1.4 billion each, while the rest received little or nothing. On the other hand, the district's pro-government representative refers to tens of billions of forints of the programme of the Modern Cities, as if it could be confused with the operating budget. Last year, however, Mr Secretary of State, only HUF 11.5 billion of the 14 billion revenue was generated due to the loss of business tax and the withdrawal of abstract operating aid and vehicle tax, while citizens have been paying world champion property taxes in this city since 2010. This year, HUF 1.4 billion is dropped due to the half-life of the business tax. They take 230 million forints as a solidarity contribution, and the city has to pay a penalty for the failure of the previous corrupt management. While we are dealing with such problems, last year the government took on 900 billion foreign loans and released the government's deficit by 5500 billion. Our country has also received significant additional resources through the crisis management packages of the European Union, and Brussels has also given us the opportunity to use part of the Structural and Cohesion assistance to cover operational expenditure. He would also have made use of this vast amount of money to automatically reimburse revenue lost due to the division of the trade tax in larger cities, but you have decided otherwise, even though perhaps because of their elevated Christianity the books of the New Testament at least [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In this they also know the Gospel of Luke:. And as you desire men to do to you, so also do to them. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-02-22-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. State Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond to this interpellation. [[13.50]]
u2021-02-22-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There was a sentence in his speech, which I have written specifically, because it shows in my opinion that it is distorted, but certainly contrary to ours, which you left-wing politicians have been operating for the last year, and as you have been looking at for the last year. The Congresswoman said that, because of the reduction in the income of the business tax, we consider those living in cities affected by this measure to be second-class citizens. That's how it came out of your mouth. It's not a misunderstanding, Congresswoman, it's right here. We think that in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, in the middle of a pandemic, people should not be bullied, but people should be helped. You don't have to cut cuts, you have to cut taxes. By releasing business tax revenue, the government did not take any income, but left it at the companies, and the smallest companies, and also at Hungarian-owned enterprises. So this reduction in business tax revenue should have been done by the municipalities, too, if the task and competence had been there, but this had to be done by Parliament and the government. The fact is, Congresswoman, that we should look for ways to help people in such a situation, how to help them. Letting go of business tax revenue, i.e. leaving it in business, is a big help. Then ask the entrepreneurs of Érd, ask Mr. Mayor Gergely Christmas how popular the political idea that these businesses will pay them voluntarily will be! Who would like to pay more taxes voluntarily or at the political pressure of the left when all businesses and Hungarians are suffering from the global economic downturn caused by the coronal virus epidemic? The government is trying to do everything to ensure that the crisis in Hungary is not treated as it was before 2010 that people had to drink it because their incomes had fallen, their lives had become harder, but on the contrary, it had to be easier for them. The tax waivers and tax reliefs that the government has made in this situation also show this. Of course, it is important that all municipalities are able to carry out their statutory tasks, and it is important that they do not perform these tasks out of debt. Therefore, after 2010, we consolidated the municipalities, which is why, for example, the level of state aid on the budget is increasing by 16 percent and, for example, this is why their own tax revenues have increased several times without a tax increase. In the case of the city of Érd, in 2010, the business tax revenue was 1.2 billion, and in 2019 it was 2.8 billion before the pandemic. At the moment, I checked, at the end of 2020, there is HUF 12 billion in treasury accounts, an additional HUF 15 billion in Érd's bank account. The programme of Modern Cities, which you feel sorry for, runs for 77 billion HUF: public education, vocational training, development of a social and health institution system, industrial park, small business support, tourism investment, leisure centre, drainage of precipitation water, safety of a high traffic urban, road node [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And vampires of Érdliget. I wouldn't call that bleeding. Please, if you respect the facts, you don't have to do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. I ask Congresswoman Anett Bősz to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-02-22-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply. I am very sorry that Minister Gergely Gulyás was not able to be here today, because the city leadership of Érd argued at the mayor's meeting on Friday that, although the programme is running in this city, the Modern Cities, but this does not change the fact that the current operating budget, which, as a result of the pandemic, the city is planning, is undermining the revenue that we could expect earlier. If you don't mind, instead of 14 billion forints, this city will be happy if you can count 10-11 billion forints. That is what must be done every day, Mr. Secretary of State, and that is why the rainporter will not be able to compensate the Érdians, unless they can rest their own crises in this leisure park. But believe me, Mr. Secretary. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] It's a bad thing to mix up development money and operating budget, that's what I'm talking about. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-02-22-92	Thank you very much. The congresswoman did not accept the answer, and therefore, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: "What about GP practices? It's an address. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor.
u2021-02-22-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, GPs were put to the test by tasks related to the vaccination of the population. They have to expect close deadlines and only partially accurate information, which is why it is not easy to plan and organise the distribution and administration of vaccinations. In view of the circumstances, we can be proud to put the problems in the background and, in the best interests of patients, GPs carry out vaccination tasks with appropriate activity. In this connection, I ask that the government and the bodies concerned do their utmost to ensure that vaccination coordination and programmeability are as predictable as possible. The already burdened GPs will be given all the help they can to do their job smoothly, with the smallest possible error and the most effective way to combat the epidemic. In addition to the difficult circumstances and increased responsibility, the problem of the development of practice communities in GP, pediatrician and dentist practice is both a problem. It is difficult to organize different types of communities in such a short period of time, to submit the necessary documentation, and the government is also trying to carry out general medical wage planning in such a discriminatory way. It cannot be supported that the government intends to use the issue of wage-setting for general practitioners to share the actors concerned. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] It would be important for the government to separate the wage arrangements for primary care workers and the issue of practice communities. Since the proper functioning of basic medical care is primarily a matter for local communities, it should be supported that the decision of local doctors, the population concerned and the local government should benefit from it and not the system of forced practice communities forced by the government should be dominant. It goes against the principle of equal treatment and sector-neutral financing, all morals and common sense that the government is forcing the establishment of community practices through financial blackmail. I would like to ask you when the situation of GPs will finally be resolved and how they will remedy the huge shortage of GPs, which means more than 500 unfilled practices and which the current transformations will not solve at all. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for an answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond.
u2021-02-22-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, we should thank all the general practitioners who have cooperated so far, that although we have tried to minimise the number of meetings in health care, they have tried to preserve the health of those entrusted to them. Thank you, too, for those who are organizing patients for the vaccination, or for those who are participating in the vaccination themselves. We hope that they can get the vaccine to more and more people. That's why it was important for the government to increase the funding of GP practices in the last few years, and then this year, which wasn't the case before. You know, when we started government in 2010, the approved budget law included HUF 79.3 billion in general doctors, less than HUF 80 billion. This year it is more than 214 billion forints; it has increased from 79 billion to 214 billion, a 170 percent increase. It didn't go up to 170 percent, so it didn't go up by two-thirds, it went up to 170 percent. In dental care we also started at HUF 22.6 billion at HUF 67.1 billion this year. [[14.00]] A huge increase, never before in any government has accepted a growth in general medical support on this scale, and has not created cover for this. If we look at the financial figures and financial figures before the current practice community, on the monthly amount of funding for a practice, honourable Member, we can see that in 2010 there was an average Praxis revenue of HUF 867 thousand, and before the introduction of the Praxis Community, so let's say, this year or January, the average practice is no longer worth HUF 867 thousand, but HUF 1 632 700. There are huge increases, and as I said, a very big boost comes this year, with a surplus of HUF 71.5 billion. I reject the congresswoman's statement that there would be anything binding or blackmail or anything like that. Everyone's gonna get extra support. A person who does not progress in general health care, so he offers the same thing in the future as he has done so far, there is a 30 percent increase in the level, and there is an 80 percent increase in the better organisation of primary care, and there is a 100 percent increase in primary care; in the case of the increase, I consider the 100 percent of what is paid for a similar medical job, the increased wage in hospitals, so that this HUF 71.5 billion amount comes out, so that a general practitioner does not earn less in his practice than if he went to the hospital, and there he would heal as a doctor on the basis of the new pay table, which was proposed by the Chamber, the government accepted it, and provided a surplus of HUF hundreds of billions in the budget. So this is the 100 percent we want to achieve for everyone who takes two steps in basic care. This is in the interest of the patients, honourable Member, so that they receive more in primary care than before, and if a doctor has an exam, an extra exam outside of general medicine, he can also use it in the practice community. That's why we started this program. In recent times, precisely because of the fact that in the areas you indicated, where you were not your own, you were not an independent GP, but you were replaced, we launched an independent GP, a practice and establishment application. There have been 322 winners at the practice competition and HUF 1.6 billion has been spent on this; the establishment proposal, which could amount to HUF 20 million in non-refundable grants, was 344 successful proposals, 234 GPs [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We spent 110 dental, 6.5 billion forints on this. With this, we were able to provide GP care to 375 thousand inhabitants. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-02-22-97	Thank you very much. Well, I can't accept the answer, because maybe it's not blackmail, then it's judgment. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Inspiration.]] So I think it's an old debt of the government to settle the wages of the general practitioners, and it's a way of getting the general practitioners to create a community as close as possible, whether they want to or not, and I think it's more than... well, extortion; it's safe to call it blackmail, although the Secretary of State didn't like that word, but I still think it's true, and it's a threat to their independence. Many have developed various practices in recent years, have been equipped with them, and now many feel compelled to do so, as they will receive extra support if they go into a community of practitioners, i.e. they will have to go to a community of practitioners if they want to perform their duties normally, with a normal amount of money. Thanks for the answer, though. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-98	Thank you. The answer was not accepted, and therefore, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, This item is closed. We will move on to our next item, where and when the proposals will be discussed. In view of the pandemic situation, I request that only the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers be present in the Chamber as far as possible. Dear Parliament, It follows, therefore, that the debate in the Commission's report on the application for protection of the Crown Virus pandemic will follow. The government referral is T/14800. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision last week, the motion will be discussed in the context of an urgent hearing. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who is sitting here on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] that you wish to speak now or at the end. [[Dr. Pál Völner: In the end.]] It indicates that at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to Antal Paulik, a Slovak nationalist advocate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2021-02-22-99	-akujem za slovo, pan predseda! Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Vážený pán predseda, poslanci, národnostní hovorcovia! Vo svojom dnešnom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností v Ma.arsku k návrhu zákona číslo T/14 800 o ochrane proti svetovej pandémii. Náš výbor predloženú koncepciu prerokoval na svojom zasadnutí 17th February. Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Spokespersons, In my speech, the position of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary is set out in T/14800. About bill No. 1. The draft was discussed at its meeting on 17 February as a committee related to the debate on the nationality committee. In view of the amendments tabled to the draft, the nationality committee did not discuss or adopt a position on the nationalities in their capacity. The Committee has decided not to submit an amendment to the draft. The content of the 69 government regulations listed in the bill, adopted in the previous period of protection against the Crown Virus and confirmed by this bill, has not been discussed in detail and exhaustively, but I think it is appropriate to mention that the provisions which affect our communities in their nationality are supported and agree with their content. The draft shall be drawn up in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 4 (4). §2 of the Act directly affects the functioning of our local, county and national self-governments and the regulations relating to the interim election of national self-governments. We fully agree with the regulation of the dissolution of the bodies of representatives and then the launch of the new interim elections, and in this connection our committee has not expressed an opinion. CXXVIII of 2011 on disaster management and amending certain related laws. Law 47. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the mayor and the mayor and the chairman of the county assembly exercise the functions and powers of the body of representatives of the local government, the metropolitan and county assembly in emergency situations. The provisions of this legislation also apply to representative bodies and chairmen of local, regional and national minority self-governments. The regulation is clear and clear. However, in view of certain deadlines and their interruptions following the publication of the emergency, the nationality authorities have not always been able to exercise their right of agreement and opinion under the national minority law. Such cases were mainly linked to the reorganisation of public education institutions, the modification of professional documents and the establishment of educational boundaries. In some cases, the notary prevented the exercise of powers on the grounds of published government regulations. As a problem, we have been told by the national authorities that, although the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. The current funding rules did not allow them to transfer their unused funds originally intended for operations or programmes and to use them for social assistance to those belonging to their nationalities. In our opinion, it is worth considering allowing such transfers in the event of an emergency, where appropriate in the course of a further amendment of the nationality law. The operational practices of national authorities were also varied in the event of an emergency. Some of them in cases where the president considered that the weight of the issue required, for example, major financial, investment decisions, modification of remuneration, awards or non-delayable legal issues, there the bodies assisted and assisted the Presidents' work in an online form, in a general meeting, but in an informal, non-voting, sometimes online or by e-mail voting. [[14.10]] This practice, which used to be common to several national minority self-governments, points to the fact that Article 21 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. In accordance with the expectations of the 20th century, or in urgent cases, do not give up, god, it is necessary to establish the regulation of the online council meetings in the event of a new emergency, so that the chairmen and representative bodies of the minority self-governments are able to operate in an adequate legal certainty, full and supportive legal environment. Of course, in the present situation, and not now, we are initiating a solution to these two problems, as we see and perceive that the government has more important regulatory and other defence tasks, but we consider it important to resolve the issue in the medium term, and as soon as the situation permits, we will start preparing the professional materials needed for the amendment and initiating the necessary consultations. Dear House, With the comments made, the Parliament's Committee on Nationalities in Hungary continues to support the bill and proposes it to be adopted. .akujem Vám za posornosť. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the spokespersons.]]
u2021-02-22-100	Thank you very much, Mr Antal Paulik. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to the Members of Parliament who have applied in advance in writing, including, first, to MEP László Sza-kács, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2021-02-22-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We had the general debate, which is actually about the government asking for the authority it received in November, and then we saw what it did to him. We have seen that we have missed the measures that we would have considered important, even though if someone asked for trust and received trust, then they may have the right to expect that the proposals that they make will be taken into account, and that there are not only budgetary transfers, there is not only a renaming of budget lines, but actually taking the measures that we miss. I want a couple of them standing here. You said that you spent 3600 billion forints on the economy, to say more than that: above that you have spent on protection, there is not even 100 percent of the sick money for those who are forced to stay at home because of the coronal virus infection. Here, it should also be said that even those who may not have to stay home on sick leave because of themselves, but because of one of their family members, cannot work, they will lose income immediately. We have also asked you to do as you do in Europe, not to cut costs, because if someone doesn't have income, it doesn't matter how much they reduce their costs, they won't be able to pay it; so they will make up for it. We told them to take over the rules of the German Kurzarbei, the shorter working hours, they pay 80% of the wages, and even when you got the authority in November, which the opposition contributed, it was that if you had to close down, say, the catering units, the entertainment industry, they would get, say, 80% of their income. Instead, you promised me 50 percent of the wages, but you didn't pay me that either. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] If it is not true, my fellow Member Nacsa, then why was it that Minister Gulyás stood from one foot to the other at the press conference, at the government briefing, and said that, indeed, a lot of applications had been received, and that there was no payment of HUF 27 billion, but now we will change the rules he said in February. Well, in December, no-vember and January, what do these entrepreneurs do for a living? How did they pay the wages or even half of it? And last but not least, what exactly did workers live from in the year when, everyone knows, life is the most expensive, because it's cold, you have to heat it, you have to buy a lot more, you spend a lot more, of course, if you have something. We told you to make it free, mass testing we don't see that either. And not least, what we've asked of you is that there's a nice and good mortgage moratorium, but let's call it quits. Many do not expect the end of this special legal order because when the special legal order is over, they will be kicked out of their homes. You, your government, made an agreement with the financial world, the EBRD in 2015: you have undertaken not to oppose, or even in such a situation, the eviction of any Hungarian family. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Your allies, the banks!]] Please, this is about the fact that if the moratorium, whether the eviction moratorium or the special legal order, we have the enforcement buyer, and the enforcement process is over, and they're gonna drop these people off. We have also seen that instead of helping people like this, they are politicalised: last year they took away the tax on weights and tourist tax from the municipalities, and this year the business tax, most of it in Hungarian: the local government's own income, so that the people who turn to them can still help some of the people who turn to them, and believe me, many people turn to them. On the other hand, what did we see? Spending. These 3600 billion were very few for people, but there was much for those who were kind to you: they did not forget the Paks II investment for a moment, and now they would have slipped for a reason, say, six months, a year; of course, they had to put it on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, taking 82 billion forints from the people's table, because it was taken from the defence fund; and of course, MotoGP must be built now when it is necessary to ensure the safety of families and the hunting exhibition cannot be left, because it is important to you. And let us not forget one more thing: the nation's gas mechanic became the richest Hungarian man this year; in the year when thousands and hundreds of thousands were destroyed, he still increased his fortune by HUF 100 billion, and in addition to the attention and friendship he would receive HUF 18 billion from this government even if he dismissed 850 people. We think these are the ones you weren't authorized to do, and for that reason, you may not deserve to do it again. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-02-22-102	Thank you very much, Congressman László Kács. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr János Bencsik, an independent Member.
u2021-02-22-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, When you break a law in this Parliament, which usually ends with public money losing its public money, you always, on every occasion, refer to public authority, public authority, they say that this is what people have decided, and you are implementing the decision of the people. Interestingly, this great community legitimacy always takes some time to legitimize their own wealth. When it is really difficult to make decisions, when there really is a need for 133 brave people, you will immediately hide behind the people and proclaim a national consultation. I don't know, you've noticed, but you've been ruling with full power for almost a year, in a special legal order, with full authority. Why do they not assume the responsibility and consequences of the decisions of this government? People are asked in the consultation that if the epidemiological situation allows, they would like to go to the theatre and the movies and swimming pools again. Well, who doesn't? ! Is there a man in this country who would wish to do so, because the epidemiological situation allows him to, but would he prefer to remain home in voluntary quarantine? I don't know anyone like that. What's the point of bothering people with stupid questions anyway? Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow members of the Government! When this point comes, when it is possible to open the country, you are the only one who can judge; because you have the background information available to you, the analyses on which to make a responsible decision on when to open it. This information is not accessible to anyone but you, not even us, opposition MPs. You're on the government. Do not spread the responsibility of government. Don't hide behind people's backs, but make the right decisions at the right time. A clear exit scenario is what people expect of you now. On behalf of the Civic Response Movement, I therefore ask you that the government finally show us the marks of government. [[14.20]] But I also have a request for representatives of opposition parties. I would like to ask you, what I did last time, to stop creating an open or disguised mood against vaccination and to start acting as opponents, to do their job, to control the government, and to make your own forward-looking proposals. It's very amusing to hang different signs, it's very amusing to swing the potato sack in Parliament, but it doesn't get us any closer to the solution, and it doesn't make it any easier for any Hungarian family, their lives during the epidemic. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the political elite has left the people behind again and for most of the time. The representatives of the political elite are kicking off from reality, living in their own little bubble, instead of fulfilling their obligations to their own voters. Therefore, in today's vote, I will not press a button on this law. Not to give the government full power, because no matter what the result of this vote is, the government has full power either way, but because I do not wish to participate in this pathetic farce. On behalf of millions of Hungarian compatriots, I demand that you begin to govern, put an end to this tragedy, and let the work of substantive legislators begin in this House. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2021-02-22-104	Thank you very much, Congressman János Bencsik. I give the floor to the speaker József Szolga.
u2021-02-22-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, Poštovani Gospodine Državni Tajniče! Since the emergency announced on 11 March 2020, we have been living in the third wave of the pandemic. We can now say that it was inevitable that the government decision of No-vember 3 and the new law on defence were put in place. The development of data in recent weeks requires further protection and the highest level of legal regulation of the instruments required. We can conclude that the T/14800. The draft law on the control of the corona virus pandemic, presented under number 1, provides an appropriate framework for further action. Over the past almost a year, all segments of society have been affected by restrictions, such as ethnic communities, their municipalities and civil society organisations. The 13 indigenous Hungarian nationalities acknowledged that the government decided in the first round to postpone the census to 2022 as a defense against the third wave. Dear House, I would like to draw attention to a number of important legislative issues. It is natural that interim elections involving minority self-governments will be postponed in the event of an emergency and that new ones can only be held 45 days after their termination. The Emergency Protection Act is 46. In the light of the kogens provisions laid down in paragraph 4 of Section 4, the task and authority of the body of representatives of the minority self-government shall be exercised by the President during the emergency, on the basis of which the performance of the national minority public service mission is ensured. It is important to note that the mandate contained in the bill also applies to the government's future measures, and I believe that this is one of the most important elements. In view of this, it is appropriate to lay down additional exceptional and transitional legal provisions, including, in the case of national authorities, the general government law, the future basis for task-based support, the public hearing sections of the National Rights Act. In view of the scope of the proposal submitted, Article 91 of the Public Finance Act. The time limits for the discharge of accounts laid down in Section 2 of this Article shall not be met. It is proposed that the municipality discuss its closure accounts for 2020 within 30 days of the end of the emergency. In view of the fact that the performance of the national minority task that underpins the task-based support of national minority self-governments for next year is certainly limited in the first five months of the year, or perhaps even further, it is proposed to establish transitional provisions for the period, for which our committee will take a similar initiative to that of the previous year. The law on the rights of nationalities regulates the annual public hearing as a mandatory legal institution, which has been cancelled in the vast majority of municipalities due to restrictions. In order to ensure direct democracy, the public hearing should be convened in connection with the negotiations on the 2020 accounts as a transitional rule. Dear Secretary of State, The solidarity we have seen in the last month cannot be left without a word in the emergency caused by the pandemic. Croatia was shaken by an overwhelming earthquake during the last week of 2020. The quakes still plague the region today. I would like to thank the Government of Hungary for its immediate assistance on behalf of the Croatian nationality in Hungary. We also thank local governments, churches, civil society organisations... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2021-02-22-106	I would like to tell my fellow Members: a little quieter. Thank you. Go on.
u2021-02-22-107	Thank you, Mr. President. We pay tribute to local governments, churches, civil society organisations and individuals who have provided unselfish help and who continue to support damage relief and reconstruction with their donations today. Hvala plain na pomoći! Dear Parliament, In my view, the 90-day authorisation granted by the draft law under discussion and the 90-day mandate is essential to the success of the defence, and any delay threatens to allow the citizens of Hungary to return to their normal life. I call on national communities to help protect themselves, to register as many people as possible for vaccination, and to complete the national consultation so that a decision can be taken as responsible as possible. I hope, with the coming of the festival of Pentecost, that the spread of grace will reach the Hungarian nation as well. For my part, I confirm the opinion of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, and I also ask the members of the Parliament to support the adoption of the bill with their votes. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[Applause from the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2021-02-22-108	Thank you very much, Mr József Szolga. Speaking in advance Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-22-109	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Six months ago, the government proposed this extraordinary legal order. At the time, the opposition asked that there should be a deadline for this legal order, so that it should be limited. The government then rejected opposition claims or opposition requests. That is why the opposition could not support it at the time, since we did not see what time frame, what guarantees it wanted to give the government. Thus, the Fidesz majority was able to vote in favour of this mandate. Then, for the second time, when they asked for this opportunity again, I find it interesting that the government correctly put a 90-day deadline in this mandate. At the time, it seemed to us that some kind of compromise or consensus was being sought by the government. Therefore, the opposition has also decided that it is worth not to hit this outstretched hand but to shake hands and say that it is good, then let us take a step towards not approaching this epidemic on a party-political basis, but to really find a common way to deal with this epidemic. That is why the opposition voted in favour of this delegation law 90 days ago. Then a lot of things have happened in the last 90 days that have made this mandate less and less acceptable, at least for opposition representatives, including me. Several Members have talked about the measures they have not taken, what they should not have done, and what other proposals, if any, have been made to the opposition that we believe would have helped with the epidemiological defence. But such proposals to the opposition have always been rejected by the governing majority. Meanwhile, we have been constantly criticized, as we have heard from my fellow Member Benchik here, that in any way we would be anti-vaccination. More than that, we cannot call on Hungarian voters to be vaccinated either on Facebook, in Parliament or in personal conversations. For my part, I registered myself among the first ones, even encouraged my family to do so, and even in my Facebook Follower Group of 240-250,000, I constantly encourage followers to register themselves, ask for vaccination, accept vaccination, because there is no other way out of this situation than to achieve some kind of immunization. [[14.30]] I therefore reject the accusation that any member of the opposition would be against vaccination, and even the opposition members are constantly encouraging Hungarian voters to do the opposite. So, to sum up once again, I can say that the government's attitude, as you accuse the opposition, is anything but a willingness to cooperate. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , and the content that described this regulation's governance...
u2021-02-22-110	Thank you very much.
u2021-02-22-111	... makes it impossible for me and the opposition representatives to support this proposal. Mr President, thank you very much for your patience.
u2021-02-22-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2021-02-22-113	Mr President, Dear House, The end of the extraordinary situation will indeed mean eviction for many Hungarian families. This government is trying to make itself appear in a national context, in my view, as I am asking you, during a truly national course, it could happen that in an epidemiological emergency, in the case of those with the lowest incomes, the enforcement bans are in the same form as before the emergency. There is still nothing that this government has done to prevent executives from living 33 percent or 50 percent for the lowest amounts of small pensions and minimum wage payments, and to take away the income, income and income of our countrymen, who are in a very difficult situation and are now meeting an even greater challenge, and their daily livelihood. The thing is, this government is cruel. This government knows these problems. We oppositionists have shared these amazing dilemmas with them many times from several parties, and the fact that you do help multinational companies here, they keep hunting exhibitions, they help real estate investors, but they do not provide a helping hand to those for whom literally a few thousand, one or two thousand forints of survival are deducted from their income, income, pension, who have proven to have introduced several times, abusive business products into the life of the Hungarian economy. That is why we call on you to notice the problem of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians without delay. You can't call yourself a national, but I'm going to go on as a Christian, not a government that literally leaves tens of thousands on the side of the road, and in a situation so clear as this, when these executive bans should be stopped at least until the end of the emergency, it doesn't interfere. It is a shame and a shame that, in the interests of these hundreds of thousands of our countrymen, Parliament's speech still has to be held several months after the emergency has been ordered. Do something about it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-22-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Arató, DK.
u2021-02-22-115	Dear House, You often criticize the opposition by not providing you with enough help to defend the disease, and we do not support you in this. I would like to ask you to allow us to help you, because we have managed to create a complete confusion with your misrepresentation on the issue of the free choice of the vaccine that Hungarian citizens are hoping for, because they are inoculating themselves. The Prime Minister has also repeatedly spoken in contradiction on this issue, and the Chief Medical Officer of the country, the Minister, has also spoken about how to choose, where there is no choice. Don't look so nasty, Congressman. I'd be happy to send you the specific quotes. I'm not going to introduce you to Parliament right now. I don't want to waste time with this. There's an uncertainty in this case. If you want people to dare to choose the vaccine, you need to be sure that they will receive a vaccine that they trust. They are not distrustful because the opposition creates mistrust. Come on. They are mistrustful because you authorized the Russian vaccine by giving the Prime Minister basically an instruction in a radio interview and then ignoring the opinion of the experts. It was not necessary for the Chinese vaccine either, because it was allowed, by means of an amendment to a government decree, to authorise this vaccine in substance on the basis of the opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, according to professional opinions. You did this. You are forcing the Chinese and Russian vaccine not authorised by the European Medicines Agency. You think it's important. You're the ones who made this political. Some people believe you, some people don't believe you. As we see the research, there are a lot more of the latter, by the way. But if that's the case, then what's the country's common interest? It is to enable everyone to decide that they will only inject themselves with a vaccine that has undergone a reliable European inspection, which we know is safe, or they will believe you that the same security is provided by the procedure that you have defined. I ask you not to refer to the excellent Hungarian researchers, because it was their opinion that the Russian vaccine was ignored, and in the case of the Chinese vaccine they didn't even ask. So we say that we leave people to decide which vaccine they trust, which vaccine they consider effective, which one they consider safe, stick to the European Union's well-known strict, well-functioning drug control procedure, or trust your procedure, the Hungarian government's procedure. 'Cause that's how you're gonna get better at getting shots. If people can be sure that they will be vaccinated with a vaccine that they trust, which they will accept as safe and effective, this will increase the desire for vaccination. Since you guys have been doing this scam with the Russian and the Chinese vaccine, KSH's research has led to a reduction in the appetite for vaccination. This has to be reversed. It's in our mutual interest. Now you can do something about it. We tabled an amendment guaranteeing that everyone should be vaccinated with a vaccine that they trust, which they accept and that they should not be put at a disadvantage. This is a simple amendment. You voted against this in the Judicial Committee without explaining why, but I do not trust that experts are sitting there, you must have misunderstood something. This is an excellent opportunity. We, in plenary, asked for a vote on this. The opportunity will be here in an hour. You can say yes or no to the choice of free vaccine. The button will be right in front of you. I'm asking you to think about this. Think of it: if there really is a free choice of vaccine, many of you say that I see wage commentators sent to my site, that there is a free choice of vaccine, if there is a free choice of vaccine, then there is no problem, press yes, then that is your intention, and from here on, every Hungarian citizen will have a legal guarantee of free choice of vaccine. But if they say no, it shows that you don't want to guarantee the right to choose free vaccines, and in this way, in essence, I'm not saying it's anti-vaccination, because I don't want to throw big words around here like you do, but let's just say they're not being responsible enough, and it's your decision that's gonna undermine the confidence in vaccination even more. Once again, please let us help you. Make it clear to Hungarian citizens that there is a free choice of vaccine. If they do so, they will help more people to choose calmly to inject themselves. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-22-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Mr Group Leader, LMP.
u2021-02-22-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have indeed conducted a general debate on this bill for a very long time. I seem to remember four and a half hours... do you hear my voice? [[For signal:]] Excellent, thank you very much, because last time I had a problem with my microphone. So we had a very long general debate. Since then, I've been monitoring your statements, your press releases, and you can see that practically nothing we've put forward to you has gone through. Since then, they have refused to give any self-criticism, and have not acknowledged that they have made very, very serious mistakes here in the last year in terms of crisis management and disease control. We have also said in the general debate that you have not lived, but have abused the extraordinary mandate which, by the way, the opposition has unanimously voted for you in no-vember. Your crisis management has proved to be insufficient and a very serious, deep social and economic crisis has emerged in Hungary. My fellow Members gave a long list of budget lines that could have been used to support the most difficult Hungarian families. There's no way I'd like to repeat that. [[14.40]] There is so much clarification about the Budapest-Belgrád railway line that we are not even talking about 82 billion. In two years, if we look at this year, there are already 200 billion in the budget, and to date, one number has not been told how many jobs are expected to be created from this otherwise pointless project that you have classified. What we need to talk about is a situation that is creating an extraordinary, catastrophic, dangerous situation, as compared to the current crisis situation. When we say that their first step was not to live, but to abuse this extraordinary mandate. We are thinking that this has been reflected in the fact that, in practice, once they were given the power to govern the regulation again, you affected the municipalities with very harsh new restrictions. It is quite clear that the local government associations and other pro-government city leaders have also made it clear that the situation that has arisen has brought the municipalities to the limit of their ability to function. We have seen over the past period, various promises have been made by Gergely Gulyás, Minister, that he will sit down with the local government associations, city leaders and discuss how to make up for lost revenue. But I see a delay here, they don't take the municipal alliances seriously, they don't take the cities seriously, and here we see a very harsh political attack on the municipalities. Let it be clear to everyone: when you pursue such a austerity policy, when funds are taken away in such a drastic way, you are not attacking the cities, not the city leaders, not the opposition mayors, but directly endangering the Hungarian people and harming the Hungarian people. Because the municipalities are very important, they are responsible for ensuring the most important public services, and if you do not ensure that the government or Parliament does not provide the resources for what is otherwise their task, then these public services will be on the verge of collapse. Who therefore takes responsibility, honourable Members? We can talk about public transport, for example. We can see that more and more cities are saying that they are virtually unable to maintain public transport, that they are forced to take measures that are dangerous in themselves, so they are using the means of reducing flights, they simply cannot maintain the current service because of your restrictions, and this will clearly increase the risk of infection, because if different public transport services are less frequent, there will be more congestion, there will be greater risk of infection. Similarly, if public transport stops or weakens, it will increase passenger car traffic, increase the risk of accidents, air pollution, congestion, and otherwise directly cause economic damage to people; so it is not for the municipalities, but for the people, and for that reason it is for you, your government, that is to blame. Similarly, we can talk about the most important public service, the supply of drinking water. They know that anyway, the maximum number of water utility companies are on the verge of operating, and their lack of resources is very serious. Compared to this, you will by no means help them, and with municipal withdrawal, you will put the municipalities in a position that they will not be able to make up for the necessary resources. Once again, this will result in a lack of maintenance, even more plumbing, more and more problems with water quality, an even greater number of professionals will leave the sector, and they will again cause huge economic damage, which, we can say, will be virtually unmanageable. My question is, ladies and gentlemen, many of you individual Members, to consult city leaders and mayors in your area, to hear their distress signals, and why they do not act against their government in such a brutal austerity policy, why they do not require the government to stop completely unnecessary gigantic investments that consume hundreds of billions, and to immediately replace municipal resources, and to stop this brutal austerity policy affecting local governments, because it basically harms people and makes it particularly difficult or, where appropriate, prevents municipalities from carrying out a very important task of defence. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-22-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP.
u2021-02-22-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is very interesting to watch left-wing representatives explain why they are facing the interests of the country again, why they are turning against their voters again, and why they say no to extending the emergency to another 90 days in the middle of an epidemic, at the door of the third wave. As a huge gesture, three months ago, with your votes, the Parliament adopted the 90-day mandate to declare an emergency. You always forget to tell me and keep quiet that in the spring your promises, despite the seven-party negotiations, did not vote for an emergency, and if it had been up to you, there would have been no quick decision-making. We are now saying that if it were up to you, if we listened to you and your scenario were to be implemented here in Parliament, then from tomorrow the credit moratorium would be over, the Hungarian families, more than a million Hungarian families, would have to pay their loan repayments from tomorrow, more than 50,000 Hungarian companies would have to pay their loans from tomorrow, even though we extended the credit moratorium until 1 July, and you just think that this should be over. The same applies to wage subsidies. If it were up to you, from tomorrow the troubled sectors would not receive wage subsidies, which the government now pays in advance for a month and not only in the context of ex post accounts. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Sure, sure!]] If it were up to you, the support for home renovation would be abolished from tomorrow, and the hundreds, thousands of families that requested it this year could no longer receive your support from the Hungarian Treasury, because you believe that these programmes should be abolished. You believe that these programmes should be discontinued because you do not want them, and all these programmes have been announced by the government during the emergency, but you believe that these programmes are no longer needed. It is very interesting that because of their petty political and power efforts, they say again, where we were in the spring, you have returned to the same place, because of your petty political and power interests, you say that there is no need for authorization, that in the middle of an epidemic, there is no need for quick, effective decision-making, as the government has done in recent times. It's funny that, in the first part of his speech, Congressman Bencsik made sounds like he wanted to go back to Jobbik. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're asking for Fidesz!]] See if he can get a seat on the Gyurcsány list and declare the questions that concern us all to be demented. For example, the issues of rebooting, the gradual, responsible opening or opening at the end of the epidemic, the issue of vaccine passports, these are important issues that affect all of our lives, all Hungarian citizens are interested in these matters. You called the questions of the national consultation in a noble simplicity demented, cases that all Hungarians consider important and important. After that, he dared to make the great and brave decision not to press a button in the vote of this law. Dear Congressman Arato, we say that you are anti-vaccination because you are anti-vaccination. You said the Russian vaccine [[Gergely Harvestó: What an argument! What an argument!]] You said the Russian vaccine was a human experiment. You said for the Chinese vaccine that a petition should be launched and that people should sign so that the Chinese vaccine cannot be used in Hungary. This is what I call anti-vaccination when people are petitioned to sign so that they can't use a vaccine, a vaccine that will otherwise save hundreds of thousands of lives in Hungary. You've petitioned people to sign so they don't use the Chinese vaccine. How irresponsible would it be to listen to you and wait for the slow European Medicines Agency, say, in September or October, to approve the Chinese and Russian vaccine, because your boss said last week that sooner or later it will be authorised by the European Medicines Agency! In the meantime, how many Hungarian lives can we save because we will be able to use the Russian and Chinese vaccine now? ! Those would be lost lives, and it would be on your conscience if we listened to you about the vaccination. How can you be serious about the amendment that you tabled to a law that you said was not going to vote on two weeks ago? How can it be taken seriously by an amendment submitted to a law that has been reviled from the outset and which has been said will not be voted on? How can you take this seriously, honourable Member? There was a time when the various health services, such as the pharmaceutical authority, were under political influence. This was the communist system your boss was eager to serve as Secretary of the Central Committee. It was the time when, for example, the medical institution or the pharmaceutical institution was under political influence. When you repudiate the Hungarian professionals, the epidemiological experts, the experts of the Institute of Pharmacy and tell them that it is only the professional European Medicines Agency that you can believe in, which is exclusive, and only where professionalism can be found, that you will kick hundreds of Hungarian scientists. [[Gergely Harvesto: You ignore them!]] , kicks hundreds of Hungarian experts who have worked hard in the last year to overcome the epidemic and find the antidotes for, for example, the vaccine that can save hundreds of thousands of Hungarian lives. That's what we're saying, you're anti-vaccination. You are constantly targeting vaccines, creating a mood for vaccines, so we are asking you for the very first time to stop anti-vaccination. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-22-120	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You didn't talk about executives!]] Here's Congressman István Hollik. [[Gergely Arató: Let's take the second place in the KDNP abuse contest!]]
u2021-02-22-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In a few words, I would also like to respond to what was said earlier. On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen on the left, please understand that the government's extraordinary mandate is a prerequisite for the successful control of the epidemic. [[14.50]] This is not just the case in Hungary, but it is the case everywhere, and if you do not want to guarantee this basic condition, then you are telling yourself again that you are not really interested in the success of the fight against the epidemic. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Give this opportunity, and then, of course, they have the opportunity, and even their constitutional obligation, to criticise each measure. As far as possible, I would say that it would be fair and polite to close the defense, to leave the epidemic behind successfully, and then, by the way, you could take a more credible account of whether this defense was successful or not. But if you do not want to provide the basic condition of protection with this extraordinary mandate, you are going to tell yourself again that you do not want us to be able to defend ourselves successfully against this epidemic. Imagine what would happen if, in Slovakia, where the third wave of the epidemic broke in with elemental force, the Slovak Government could not act as quickly as possible with extraordinary authority. What about it? It would cost lives! So you're messing with people's lives just because your political interests currently dictate that this extraordinary mandate should not be voted for. That's the thing. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I am very sorry that our fellow Member Mesterházy is not here right now, because he asked you to be anti-vaccination. All you had to do was listen to Arato's fellow Member, and then you'd find out right away what we were talking about when we said you were anti-vaccination. That's what we're talking about! What Mr Arató has said here is the otherwise typical commie tempo: it points in a devious way, but still in the direction of mistrusting the vaccine. That was the point of what you had to say. Like that, like that, but that's why you can't trust these vaccines. Shame on you! Professionals in charge of the authorities, Hungarians who do everything for them. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] To examine these vaccines, and if they say that their own countrymen can use these vaccines, how do you come to question their authority? How do you come to that? And how will you be able to account for your conscience, by the way, when, because you and your boss are in the mood on Facebook, there will be people who won't be vaccinated with these vaccines, and let's just say, God, these people are gonna be coronal viruses, so don't give God, say, their lives will be lost? How will you account for your conscience? It's no wonder you're in his phone right now (Gergely Harvester interrupts.) 'Cause by the way, you're gonna have to account for that. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] You have to account for it. And the thing is, they're busted. When your boss says that sooner or later the Russian and Chinese vaccine will have a European permit, it means that you know that they are safe vaccines, so what the Hungarian authorities say is true. Nevertheless, they are annoying me against these two vaccines. Congressman Cook, who is also not here, says that people do not want the end of the extraordinary legal order, because then they will have to pay their credit again. I agree with him on that. He just forgot to tell me that their non-voting would mean that starting tomorrow, people will have to pay the loan again. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And speaking of objective information and revelations, they somehow forgot to say about the credit moratorium that it is one of the largest in all Europe, both in its personal composition and in its extent. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So this is a real help to Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses alike. I, too, would like to join my fellow Member, Nacsa, on behalf of János Bencsik, when he says that the consultation is a failure. Almost 300,000 people say that's not what you're saying, and it's probably going to be a lot more. And, Congressman, you will recall your own words when you see the outcome of the consultation, because I do not know, but I very much suspect that on several issues anyway. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] You'll be very close to each other. And, for example, with regard to the vaccine certificate [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I'm almost sure it's gonna be 50/50. Well, that doesn't make him crazy at all. Or, by the way, if you look at the index's consultation results, you can see that. These are no obvious questions, no debilities, no clowning, as Peter James otherwise says. Appreciate the people. Please respect them by listening to their opinions. But obviously that is not what you are doing, because you are not interested in the opinion of the Hungarian people, but even in the case of an epidemic, you are guided only by your own political interests. So you should be ashamed that the extraordinary authority is not given to the government. Fidesz-KDNP, on the other hand, people can count on, so we will, of course, vote in favour of the extraordinary mandate. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-122	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. The next speaker is Congressman György Balla, Fidesz.
u2021-02-22-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm trying to stay calm, but I can't guarantee that I'll keep it the whole time. [[Defiance.]] Because what you've presented here is the most primitive, vile, dishonest act I've ever seen in my life. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: You've lasted a long time!]] Attila Mesterházy stands up, asks himself that we classify them as anti-vaccinations, tells everyone on his 100,000 Facebook page to be vaccinated, he is the first to apply for this, I believe, and then Mr Arató will come in and present the world's largest, absolutely clear anti-vaccination comment. He's making up net lies. He accuses Hungarian professionals, accuses the entire Hungarian government, accuses people of what he can say, gives instructions in radio interviews, and the rest is as if I'm serious about it; I might not be far from reality. What you have here, Congressman, is really about how people can be unsure. And I would like to argue with Congressman Hollik. The congressman said that what Mr. Arató did was a devious lie. I think it's an infinitely primitive and transparent filth. They talk about vaccinations to discourage everyone, by the way. You are not interested in the fact that Hungarian offices with great skills clearly state that all vaccines in Hungary are also useful. You don't care, because you obviously have much more knowledge than, say, Professor Merkely, so you can see it by the looks of it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And from your earlier comments on virus, vaccination, health care, Professor Merkely and you are certainly the much bigger one. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] You're not interested in his opinion, who says it's the best shot you've got here and it's already been given. Can you imagine that a world-famous professor of medicine, like Professor Merkely, would talk about if any of the vaccinations were uncertain in Hungary, otherwise you would argue for it? You seem to be able to imagine, because that's what you've been instructed to say. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] But I assume that's what you'd say to yourself, because you don't care about anything else but how to hurt me, how to make this country as bad as possible, and that's why you think you're doing the best you can. That's what they do in government, that's what they do in opposition. You didn't change anything, you stayed the same. It's the same as it was! [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What do you want to say?]] It doesn't make you think about what's happening in Slovakia these days either. If I remember correctly, for several months the entire left is the entire left! campaigning to have regular testing, testing everyone, that's the solution. Mr. Christmas may still be testing me. Now, if there was a country in Europe that, I'm not saying, took your advice, but acted in a similar way, it was Slovakia. I am very sorry for them, and I pity what happened there, but the fact is that the Slovak government had to announce that it was asking for help in healthcare is such an epidemic. That's what the general, bloody general test you've been demanding for months is using. And now you're going to open your mouth and you're going to tell me that what the Hungarian government has done in the case of an epidemic is all useless? Can they still open their mouths? How mean is that? ! [[Intercoms from Jobbik: You don't mean that either. You're a public commissioner!]] [[15.00]] As a matter of fact, the Emergency Act is not supported: what transparent excuses are these again! What transparent excuses! You know that, because that's all you need to know, so much I'm assuming you're capable of knowing. [[Noise, interruptions.]] That, obviously, in times of emergency, there is no other way to steer it but by emergency authorisation. It is not possible to hold four weeks of parliamentary debates when decisions need to be made overnight. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think they know that, but they're just going to go for it, if you don't support it, in case it doesn't work out, and then there's going to be chaos in the country. You want chaos policy. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] That's what they're doing, and they're doing it all the time. [[Intercoms, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: Normal people don't say that.]] You can yell out that a normal person doesn't say that, but I don't think a normal person does that, Mr. Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] What you people do, a normal person doesn't even do in opposition, only irresponsible, hateful, dishonest people do things like you. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: That's right!]] They are able to take the local governments to their mouths, an apologies, Mr Keresztes, to which you have just joined, which, during the 2008 crisis, took a hundred billion forints from the municipalities! He didn't leave me at the businesses and the people, he took it, he took it, and he swept it into the state register. You're sitting in a camp with them now. There is Congressman Arato, his bosom friend, who, by the way, voted in favour of these. And you're talking about any kind of municipal destruction? ! When it is decided that, just as the state takes less in contributions and taxes, then the municipalities should also make the gesture to people in contributions and taxes that they will lose less! By the way, not everyone, not the multinationals, the small businesses, the Hungarians, for which you sometimes stand up in a verbal way, just seems to say the opposite when the political interest so requires. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, My apologies if I was a little angry, but what the opposition, which the left has presented today, I think, can't be tolerated calmly. They are vilifyingly political, dishonest, and constantly lying, especially Congressman Arato. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-124	I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that there are four people waiting to speak under this item. I am speaking to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I do not think, even in a heated debate like this, that it is right for you to have such a domestic competition because of who can abuse the opposition more harshly and slander the opposition with lies. About who kicked me into viral protection professionals: On October 2nd, one of your influential... That's right! On 2 October, one of your influential State Secretarys specifically accused Professor Ferenc Jakab of alarming him, who drew attention to delaying measures and missing numbers, and said on a television programme on 2 October, at the beginning of the second wave, that the numbers had stabilized. I think that's the serious irresponsible thing to do, and that's when a politician, an influential pro-government politician, kicked a virology professor, a professional. When you say that Congressman Hollik is lying about people's lives being messed with by opposition representatives, let us remember that Gergely Gulyás, Minister, in a government briefing, publicly basked on television the effects of the virus on people under the age of 65, on what effect it can have. That's the serious irresponsible thing to do. I think that when a minister makes these gravely irresponsible statements, that's the serious one. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Allow me one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise, Mr President: when you give Lőrinc Mészáros 18 billion to your hotel chain in parallel to taking 11.5 billion dividends out of your construction companies, that is not necessary. [[Constant intervention from the pro-government benches: Time!]] This cannot be authorized, because this is the betrayal of the Hungarian people, and this is the political entertainment, this policy is an outrageous political game, which is a sin in such a serious epidemiological situation, the crime against the Hungarian people is to make a pro-government position...
u2021-02-22-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'm asking everyone to try and keep up the time frame. From the Jobbik Group, it is up to Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So, in the heat of the debate, allow for a few additions or corrections to be discussed. You're talking about anti-vaccination in government benches. Let's just get this straight: it's anti-vaccination who doesn't support any kind of vaccination. [[Crying out of the pro-government lines: No! György Balla: All who support it... the president is ringing the bell.]] I have tried, Congressman Balla, to listen patiently to your speech, and I expect the same from you. Anti-vaccination is against all vaccinations. Faith in the vaccine is another question. Say another country and government in the European Union who has turned vaccines into vaccination into politics. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Opponents. György Balla: Opponents are there... the president is ringing the bell.]] Give me a country, another country, another government, where a pro-government politician delivers vaccines to a doctor's office. What's next? Are you giving the shots? ! What if it's not pure politics? ! Most people have become mistrustful because of the vaccines. There are several types of vaccines in Hungary today, and you have been talking about it. Where else is there a country where the task of a determining authority is overwritten by a government decree? ! Why did they take the pharmaceutical chamber out of the system? You have used this extraordinary situation to introduce a health law, a new health law, with which health professionals and doctors do not all agree, or most do not agree, and I am not talking about raising wages here. You asked for a mandate 90 days ago, which was also supported by the opposition. These 90 days are over, and this support has gone because you didn't use it for what you asked for. You're sneaky, sneaky remodeling the health system. They transform the health system by talking in riddles. They say that health workers have 30 days to get to know their new employment contracts, they have 30 days to get to know them during a viral period, and there is a healthcare worker who hasn't received them to this day, and it's almost February 28th, and he doesn't know what his employment contract contains, and you don't take it into account. You're talking about saving lives, medicine. Do you know what the pain of cancer means to a family member or, say, a patient? It is the most difficult to alleviate, reduce or eliminate. And now the Union has reached the level of adding medical extra additives to the chemotherapy that relieves these pains. And who's the only government standing up to all this at the UN? Government of Hungary. The possibility of using cannabis for medical purposes is taken away from cancer patients with many... [[Turning to Nacsa Lőrinc:]] Congressman Nacsa, this isn't a puppet show. Don't show me. So the health organisation in each EU Member State agrees with it. So if you are going to use the next 90 days for what my fellow Members have said before, that you are filling your buddies' pockets, that you are indebting this country to MotoGP investments for tens of years, there is no Member who will give it to you. But if you tell us we're not getting 9,000 ventilators, we're only getting 500 of them that we can use within the health system, and we're getting a hundred more we can give to the Slovaks, because unfortunately we can't give them health care workers, we can support that. But it doesn't take a law of authority to distribute more TOP applications. And one more about municipalities: in a special legal order, mayors decide on their own whether or not the budget or other proposals for decisions. I have talked to a lot of mayors and congressmen about the need to change that, since they leave the mayors alone in the decisions. [[15.10]] They may make good decisions, but they also let them down in bad decisions. Why can't you hold an online council meeting that is Five. In accordance with its rules, and would it not be possible for a mayor to self-destruct municipal contracts that would adversely affect local governments? This would have been a positive step forward, but you wouldn't want to keep this whole thing going for anything but to keep the policy going and to mislead people about vaccines and to carry those new health laws through the health system at the level of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Shame! And last of all, in several places it has been said that the grafting of medical personnel is 80-90 percent of a lie! [[With his hands on his phone:]] Here's the e-mail that the second round was canceled for an uncertain time. Once you stand up, whether you're a national chief of medicine or the chancellor's minister, give me the right numbers. 90 percent, 80 percent is far from real. We can be happy if 40 percent of healthcare workers who have applied are vaccinated. So, so much for the emergency and the measures you've taken. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-22-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. For the remaining timeframe, it will be Mr Gergely Arató from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-129	Thank you very much. I think that anyone who has followed up on this debate has been given a clear picture of the difference between the attitude of the government side and the opposition. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right! So far, we agree...]] From the lensian side, we gave calm voice, professional comments [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] ; we have tried to raise proposals and considerations that would help with disease management. Compared to this, the great threesome, Congressman Nacsa, Hollik and Balla, said quite passionate, personal, and political speeches. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you accuse the opposition, for example, that we do not trust Hungarian experts, Hungarian experts. Please check 488/2020. Government Decree No 6/A §8: on this basis, the Chinese vaccine has been authorised and this allows the authorisation of the Chinese vaccine by circumventing the professional opinion of Hungarian professionals. So what I'm asking of you is that we try to stay on the facts. As regards how serious this issue is and how urgent it is now to make this regulation suddenly, it shows that the previous delegation law, as you know, expired on 10 February. It wasn't urgent for you to bring him to Parliament. When we initiated a parliamentary session, they didn't come, but after the end of the last deadline, this bill will be submitted. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's right.]] In order to play the political charade that if the opposition doesn't support it, the end of the world will be tomorrow. If this is such a serious matter, why wasn't it important two weeks ago or three weeks ago or on February 8th just now? Thank you very much.
u2021-02-22-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács is next.
u2021-02-22-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say, I'm not surprised by the opposition's attitude. From the beginning, ever since the political process has been conducted together, the opposition has no other agenda but joint hatred. And I would like to suggest to the opposition that they read Spinosa sometimes, who, when he was wrongly accused of being attacked by his own, said the simple sentence: believe me, hatred never leads to good. Well, in my opinion, in this House, it was an integral part of this policy that they did not do that, if we had made a mistake, they would have attacked the mistakes, but, in general, everything that the government does is considered to be wrong without exception. Believe me, it's crooked, and I'm going to keep going: if you think about it, it's a suicide policy. The vast majority of Hungarians now understand and know that this contagious wave cannot be stopped without the vaccine. Who knew there was gonna be a third wave recently? No one could have known. Who knew today or who knew what the consequences of this third wave would be? If there was something in this country, when it would be absolutely justified for a general cooperation to appear, which would make the vast majority of people understand that only joint action could help, and would not do that without any scientific basis, the different vaccines would be classified differently... If I were a socialist, I would admit that I would trust Pfizer the least. Why? Because he's a capitalist bastard. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] I'm sorry, it's not made by a state institution, and therefore it doesn't deserve to be trusted. Total confidence should obviously be given to the Chinese vaccine, since it is clearly produced under State supervision. But now, aside from the joke, let us be serious: this is what we are talking about, this House, that all delays, every day delay can cost people their lives, and you cannot forget that. You should also know that the fight against this kind of vaccine, which, indeed, as my fellow Members have said, is being done rather cunningly and with rather ulterior motives, in such a way that people are supposed to encourage people to leave, but do not accept this vaccine, and do not accept this vaccine, preferably accept only something that they are not carrying... completely clear behaviour. And I said that this policy is a suicide policy, because when the public, the Hungarian people, realize that there is a political process going on here where people do not count on it, you cannot count on their support. Dear House, I've applied for a few other reasons. I would like to ask the Government to review the decisions taken and included in the government decree, in the sense that there are some of them that will prevail in the long term, such as the work done at home. I believe that the rules of this should start to be drawn up already. We need to prove that it is not a question of day-to-day politicalisation that is typical of the opposition. It is not that we want to tell the truth to the opposition, but that we want to prepare governance in the long term in such a way that it serves the Hungarian people well in the coming years or even decades. The possibility of working at home, I believe, will raise sharply the always existing conflict between work and capital. I think that when we deal with this, we need to make it clear where we stand. It must be made clear that we are not against capital, but we are specifically in favour of work. This will have to be, I think, laid down in law and law, because this system, this institution, will remain; to what extent, we do not know it yet, but we need regulation. There are more of these regulations, which are good, but which are obviously short-term, and which will now have to be prepared for the long term. Dear House, Overall, I think that the next few weeks, or maybe a month or two, will be about being credible here on the government side to the extent that we can remain credible to make the Hungarian people understand without the opposition: we have to go, we have to train, we have to defend ourselves, because there is no other way to survive this crisis. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-22-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I would like to inform you, Mr State Secretary, that since you did not use the time frame that you had at your disposal at the beginning, you now have a 15-minute timeframe. There you go. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2021-02-22-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Where did the final debate start now? The accusation is that the previous mandate was practically not used by the government for the purpose it was referring to. I would like to announce that we have been able to obtain more than 3.5 million vaccines from the Union you favour. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This means that by the end of May we will be able to free more people from the threat of the epidemic. What if it's not a result? What, if we didn't use it for good? But I could say the involvement of government agencies in defense, or that the military can help with health protection. This is all an instrument that would not have been available under normal legal order. Basically, 50 percent wage support, pension increases, health care workers, doctors' wage increases were all for protection. So, when you say here, my fellow Member Rig, that the government has used its potential in the field of health in a sly way, it would also be appropriate to pay attention to these, to the fact that the workers have been, to say the least, managed to put in a better position. Obviously, such a transformation is a lot of trouble, but I beg you, if we don't touch it, the system won't work any more. There was a debate here on anti-vaccination. You can see that the Gyurcsány coalition is really playing a thousand voices to dissuade people. I would argue with my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, in so far as these left-wing parties moved from the backyard of Moscow to the backyard of Brussels, so today they are the main advocates of the winds blowing from there. And the other thing is the choice of vaccine. On Friday, the Prime Minister said in the radio interview that anyone who does not need the vaccine that is currently available will go home, and when they have what they want, they will use it to inoculate it. You want to make a choice that's not realistic, because you choose between a vaccine that doesn't exist and a vaccine that exists, so it's not a real situation. This was also the only worthy amendment before the Judicial Committee to include in the law the right to choose a vaccine. There is the right to choose a vaccine from the existing vaccines, which are not available, unfortunately they cannot be incorporated into the law, or in vain, it is like EU procurement: it exists on paper and in reality it is not. There was also an opinion on executives. There's an executive moratorium on housing, everyone knows that. So let us not deceive people, but protect those whose housing would be compromised because they have debts. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes said that in October, Ferenc Jakab was attacked by a virology specialist. On 21 September, the Prime Minister in Parliament told us about the epidemic that was coming, about 200,000 people who had been sick, about the burden of hospital beds. So it was practically announced on the part of the government what danger we were facing, and it was also said that we would provide double the capacity that the professionals predicted. So the Prime Minister himself denies these words that we would have challenged the claims of professionals. A person who advocates legalisation of cannabis ignores the fact that pain relief has existed and exists in Hungarian medicine. Please, let's not mix things up, because this is a completely different front line than the current epidemic. Obviously, this can be discussed under calm circumstances. So I could go on, I could go on, but my fellow Members have also answered these matters quite well, and in the general debate we have already discussed these issues which are not always relevant. So I'm asking the opposition to think a little bit about this: there's an epidemic, there's an emergency, so please note that this is not the time to push people into uncertainty. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, It follows the debate on the legislative report and the proposal for amendment to the Act amending certain laws on energy and waste management, adopted by the Parliament on 15 December 2020, sent back by the President of the Republic on grounds of non-law. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/13958/14. Letter from the President of the Republic T/13958/15. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. The Legislative Committee's amendment proposed by T/13958/17 and T/13958/18. Also available on the website for everyone. Dear House, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, with a period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 February 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13958/14 amending certain laws on energy and waste management. No. 1 adopted but not announced. The Legislative Committee's report and its amendment proposal are set out in HSZ 79. By 24 votes in favour, 5 against and 5 abstentions. Dear House, It is true that the draft before us has already been discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 10 December 2020 and that Parliament adopted it at its meeting on 10 December 2020; however, due to the well-founded constitutional observations made by the President of the Republic in his preliminary Normanty motion, it was justified to renegotiate the provisions of the returned law declared contrary to the Basic Law and to correct the errors raised. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to summarise in a few words the essential features of the legislative committee's amendment proposal. Amendment to the obligation to transfer waste to the Constitutional Court 5/2021. In view of its decision No 13, it provides that the transfer of waste with a value that can be expressed in money requires compensation, i.e. compensation. In addition, the legal definition of compensation will be laid down. The conclusion of a contract on individual needs for larger original waste-producing entities is transformed from an obligation under the amendment to an option. In the absence of a concession or concession contract, the compensation will be paid by the legal entity designated by the State to the original waste-producing entities, the extent of which will be determined primarily jointly by the parties. If the parties cannot agree, the compensation for waste, its extent and details will be determined by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. The draft before us is in line with the European Union's Circular Economy Directive, adopted in 2018, which provides for an even greater performance for Member States in the field of waste management. In view of this, the new concession model is thinking of a single and efficient regulatory model based on overall social responsibility that minimises environmental pressures, in which it is not possible to manage separately each profitable or lossy waste management area. In the case of waste transfer, the limitation of the choice of waste holders under the law is to protect the fundamental rights of others in the public interest, Articles P and XX of the Fundamental Law on the conservation of natural resources. CHAPTER 1 2 - TOTAL Article 2, the right to health and the right to a healthy environment. Dear House, The amending proposal before us adequately eliminates the shortcomings set out in the President of the Republic's constitutional veto, which is why the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Attila Steiner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, if he would like to speak. [[Attila Steiner: I want it at the end of the debate!]] Yes, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Before I give the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that together you have a 15-minute time frame for speaking in the debate and any closing. So what you're using right now is that much less for the shutter. [[Attila Steiner: I would like to speak at the end of the debate.]] In the end, you'd like to, thank you very much. So, accordingly, you will have a 15-minute window. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana first. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[15.30]]
u2021-02-22-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have stood for the Szombathely and Vas county on several occasions in connection with the Waste Management Act, and regrettably I must say that there is no substantive change here, either in spite of the request of President János Áder or in spite of the decision of the Constitutional Court. Certain amendments are being made, but no substantive changes will be made, Honourable Parliament, so it is still the case that you wish to go through this nationalization during concession procedures, which is spookyly similar to trafikmutyi. We can remember the consequences of this all over the country, and unfortunately we also had to experience it in Vas County, and it is very feared that this is what we will have to face now, in the case of the reorganisation of waste management. Of course, they put this proposal in a nice robe as well, and try to present it and communicate it to voters in this way, such as highlighting the circular economy and various environmental aspects. By the way, I acknowledged in the general debate that there were good and eligible elements of this motion, but, overall, it is about putting the municipalities in a worse position, thus putting Szombathely and Szombathely in a worse position. During last year, I had already consulted József Kopcsándi, a member of the local government in Szombathely, as he also expressed his concerns in this context. I have also submitted written questions, and there was no substantive response to them at the time, and unfortunately, in the general debate, I have also had to see that you have taken communication in a completely different direction in this regard, although there is nothing else to discuss, Honourable Parliament, in this case, as a matter of withdrawal of duties, loss of assets in respect of local governments, and what you can see is that if we look back on similar developments in recent years, it may indeed be the result that the quality of service will fall and on another side, which is also a very negative consequence, that there will be a rise in the number of residents, including those living in Szombathely and its surroundings. Of course, some compensation has been referred to here, and indeed the amending proposal contains elements in this regard, but yet the fear that is expressed in relation to this concession nationalisation, I think, is absolutely real. And I find it shameful that Csaba Hende, as a pro-government Member of Parliament, did not stand up to this on any occasion, for the sake of the people and the people of the region on Saturday, and, unfortunately, I am also sure that he will support this proposal in the vote as well. I will vote against this, and I will not do so this time, because it is visible, and unfortunately it is clear to me that this motion, honourable Parliament, is all about putting businessmen and businesses close to Fidesz in the position. Therefore, I can promise that my colleagues and I will be monitoring these concession procedures with an eyeful, and any irregularities or even any signs of corruption, I will take the necessary steps for the people and the people around Saturday. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the independent benches.]]
u2021-02-22-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-02-22-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed the draft of this bill here in the Parliament in mid-December, and we also said what I am going to underline now, and I stress that again a salad law was introduced, many of which could otherwise be supported by the LMP, and we are thinking here about the EU's policy for a circular economy or the strengthening of consumer protection, the amendment proposals that fall within the scope of the development of the deposit fee system, but our support has been made impossible by hiding parts of this law that have completely and repeatedly disrupted the domestic system of waste management. Unfortunately, this motion has not been agreed with either professional or civil society organisations, and it is in vain that the LMP and the other opposition parties have expressed that there are professional misconceptions here, and that the proposal is even against the law, but you have carried through the adoption of this law only by force. It is no coincidence that the President of the Republic turned to the Constitutional Court to review the case. From the many arguments put forward by the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court has clearly confirmed that compensation and compensation are required for the transfer of valuable waste that can be expressed in money. However, this is only the tip of the iceberg, because the Constitutional Court also issued a separate opinion on its decision, and I would like to highlight the special opinion of the Constitutional Court, which is marked by Marcel Szabó, which is based on the fact that there is another point which raises constitutional issues compared to what the President of the Republic wrote. About two months after the adoption of the contested law, you have submitted a new draft to try to remedy the constitutional problems that the Constitutional Court has rightly condemned, but in fact you have proposed a solution to the problem raised, ignoring the possibility of resolving the whole case. Nor did they pay attention to the fact that, in the current crisis of domestic waste management, when more than HUF 10 billion of tax payer money is to be pumped into the sector that has been built up from EU and municipal sources, which has been largely self-sufficient, so that in many settlements, instead of kukaholding, disaster management does not have to carry out waste disposal tasks, you would bring domestic waste management into a new gamble, while this is also a priority for public health reasons just because of the Covid epidemic. You would pass the whole task on to a company or group of companies which does not have the necessary references and skills for this task. It is true that in this draft, the looked-out and really existing companies will be prepared for more than two years. But I go further: all of this includes cutting down local governments from the domestic waste management system, which has been inefficient and ineffective since 2010, taking away all of their assets and expenses that have been invested and operated for the benefit of the population, and taking away local taxpayers' money. Because of their vulnerable situation, local companies who work for pennies are sent into a line of servants, even those domestic businesses who have been able to stay on their feet so far. If, on the other hand, the new consort becomes unfit for the task, it can jump out of the task with six months' time, despite the billions of calls, which means that we are facing an irresponsible, near Fidesz, money-sucking vending machine that could put the entire country in danger. Dear House, I followed the meeting of the Legislative Committee, especially considering how the proposal of the President of the National Association of Waste Farmers to withdraw this proposal in the interests of the country was completely ignored and rethinked with the stakeholders. In this regard, I also maintain our previous reservations and proposals, which have not yet been repeated here, so that LMP does not support this proposal in its present form. Break up the law in such a way that we can vote with responsibility for the eligible parts, and do not have to reject the whole law because of the unacceptable parts, but forget the non-law and the violations of the common good, and discuss the substantive solution with the stakeholders. If this doesn't work, throw it all in the trash. Thank you for your attention. [[15.40]]
u2021-02-22-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mrs Hajnalka Juhász. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Currently, about four million tonnes of waste are generated in Hungary every year. This is an average of 387 kg of household waste per person per year. This is significantly below the EU average, which represents an average of 502 kilograms, and we have made quite a step forward in the latest Eurostat statement in 2021 in terms of the volume of municipal waste. The Hungarian population achieved nearly 16 percent improvement in municipal waste by achieving less than 1 percent of the EU average. When designing an efficient model for waste management, the legislator was responsible for establishing a sufficiently differentiated system to compensate waste owners at the same time and taking into account mandatory public services, environmental and public health aspects in full so as to comply with their regulatory obligations under EU legislation. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, the amendment provides adequate compensation to the original waste-producing entities for the value of the waste that can be expressed in money, which is paid by the concession company or, if there is no concession contract in force, by the legal entity designated by the State to the original waste-producing entities. In the new concession model, there is also public interest in limiting the choice of waste holders. This restriction can guarantee the transfer of waste to a person who is not only interested in maximising his own profits, but also in meeting the targets of the Member States, i.e. ensuring that public health and environmental protection objectives are met. In the new concession model, the Commission accepts from the State the obligation to carry out the concession activities, to fulfil the Union's targets and to carry out the necessary investments. At the same time, it bears the risk that its activity will depend entirely on the quantity and quality of the waste. The new system is thinking of a single and efficient regulatory model based on overall social responsibility, which minimises the environmental burden, in which it is not possible to manage each profitable or loss-making waste management area separately. Large waste-producing companies have the possibility to conclude contracts with the waste management concession for individual needs in the case of the transfer of industrial waste or to use their waste for their own use in accordance with the law. In the first case, the concession company pays compensation for the value of the waste to the company. The new waste management system treats waste as secondary raw material. The essence of this is that materials so far considered as quasi-loss can be returned to the production process. Of course, it is important to emphasise that prevention is the most appropriate way to manage waste. The best way to achieve this is to reduce the production of waste. This requires manufacturers to take responsibility for the waste generated, i.e. to ensure that waste is kept in circulation throughout the entire range of products, so that companies recover it and use it as raw material as much as possible. The new regulation is based on a single and efficient regulatory model that minimises environmental pressures, contributing most effectively to the development of a sustainable and conscious waste minimisation and recycling, recycling and recycling approach. Therefore, depending on the above, the amendment is supported by KDNP. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-142	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to say a very simple, clear, extended Hungarian sentence: sorry, we made a mistake, we try to do it differently. Run this through their own heads. There is a Hungarian word for correction: when something fails in the form they have tried, they start differently. Your political culture doesn't have any form of understanding that one thing in that form doesn't work, it doesn't work. What it takes, I ask you honestly: what it takes to understand or accept why we have to go through this kind of political defiance and political anger, so that we can still do whatever the Constitutional Court says, who is obviously politically not so, in most of the Constitutional Courts that you have appointed, they are independent people, I know, but still, the President of the Republic, who was your party, also says something that this is no longer the case? And it's not what I'm trying to say in a few sentences, because it's a big problem, but the basic essence of what the world is going to do, and what you're trying to rape again. What does it take to say once in your life that you can't go on this road, we turn back? It's not a sign of weakness, believe me, sometimes it's a sign of wisdom if they can do that, and they can do that. But that's not what they're doing. You guys are pretending like nothing ever happened again. They take one element out of the Constitutional Court's decision, they try to correct it in a sete-suta way or in a medium way, and in fact they do not touch the basic problem in any form. There are things in the world that I'm willing to accept, because from this point of view, I've been in politics a long time, there are things that can be centralized and sometimes need to be centralized; there are things that can be conducted better from the center, but believe me, I truly think that, and there is nothing political about this, there is no left or right-wing issue, waste management is not one of these things. Here yes, I think it is important what customs are, what procedures are, who are the actors who know each other in a given settlement or in a given region. So believe me, it's the whole thing, the way you're touching it, and now you've been trying different forms of society, different solutions for a long, long time, and clearly this story doesn't want to work, there's a loss, transport is slowing down, there's problems everywhere, everyone's dissatisfied, but you're still trying to touch it over and over again. I do not want to get into it; now they have said so many times about the other agenda something about local governments, and it would be worth getting out of it, because they are going very wrong. So this kind of central power that you build in everything is really limited. It would be worth trusting those who are elected locally to do their job, and I consider it like this, once again, everything that has been taken away in recent years, such as public education, such as health care, chimney sweeping, and obviously this shipment of waste is also here. Well, I'm gonna say this once again in this law, because if you can hear me for the first time, I can see that 133 brave people who want to vote are already coming in, so I'm gonna take advantage of this opportunity, so, in this law, there's a new element, because so far, what they usually do is they're gonna involve a specific activity in the state, and then someone's gonna do this concession that they're gonna write up, or some tender or some kind of tender, they're gonna win by an entrepreneur close to you, and they're gonna make huge money. Now, I see you've reached a level in this law. They're privatizing him right now, and you know what's interesting? How will a monster be created against which citizens are defenseless. The state will no longer be responsible for the shipment of waste, but it will be a private company, which, if it becomes a piece, will be a huge company. How will the customer service of that work? How can you really, it's a practical thing for a simple citizen to get there, if his garbage transport doesn't work, then can you make a meaningful move? These things aren't answered today. But you don't care about that. Here is the Constitutional Court, giving you a chance to get out of this and think about it: it is not appropriate to take this matter through in this form. But you're not taking this opportunity. They're bringing in this kind of regulation that government representatives, as I've heard, are very disciplined to defend, but let's understand, in the field of garbage management, there are not only companies. Now I do not want to refer back to what will happen to pioneers who collect paper and waste. Who will negotiate with them if they cannot agree on the price? [[15.50]] I can continue to say, as we say in many laws, that there is no confidence in you that if you set up an authority or an office, that authority will not look at the public interest or at the greater interest, but rather at the local interest. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to join the LMP speaker before me, to put it in style, that this law belongs to what it is about: waste. So throw away this law and try this another time. Trust me, once you try it, you'll see it won't hurt. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2021-02-22-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr György Balla. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[It's constant noise.]] If it wasn't tragic what Congressman Molnar said, it would be a comedian. But I think that in all this time, after such a parliamentary past, [[It's constant, it's loud. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] do not understand what a debate is about. [[The president's ringing again.]] , when the Constitutional Court finds a bill incompatible with the Constitution at one point, after this 30-year practice, that it is necessary to correct it in that one point, it is not necessary to redefine a whole law, but the one point that was unconstitutional, which was established by the Constitutional Court, must be corrected. I would also like to say to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck that this debate does not support your arguments, but denies your arguments. Because you keep talking about how this law is, as it is, unconstitutional, countless points of this law are unconstitutional. Then this law was passed on to the Constitutional Court, and in only one point he said that the solution which is in fact in the law was not compatible with the Fundamental Law. So not in 20, like you said, but in one. I just want to make this clear that the fact that we are here today and that we have to correct the only amendment does not strengthen you, but weakens you. Two, three of the opposition representatives spoke to him. Congressman Molnár said we wanted to touch something that was completely wrong again. Now, I'm not going to sign that it's completely wrong, but the thought of not touching something that's completely wrong is definitely affecting me with the power of novelty. Yes, today's shipments of waste have problems. The supply of waste had a lot of problems even when it was entirely the responsibility of the municipalities and municipal associations. In fact, most of the problems we see now are usually related to municipal associations. But by the way, asking a government to account for the fact that if something's wrong, it's trying to fix it on a new basis, I think it's really funny. It's really funny. Just as, excuse me, Congresswoman Schmuck, it's quite funny that you would say that the consort will not understand what you're doing. There's only one problem, no one knows who's gonna win the concession, no one knows who's gonna be the constable. To say something about someone that we have no idea who they are, this is again, I think that opposition politics is a rather new, not new one, and now I have to say it's an old one. As is the fact that you are saying that you were right, because you believe that the proposal is in many ways constitutionally offensive, and, well, there was a separate opinion in the Constitutional Court. That means most people don't. So if I write a separate opinion for something, it means that most people don't. So I would like to say once again that today's bill is merely about improving the bill that has already been adopted at one point. The government has complied with this by 100%. The proposal is good, useful and can be supported calmly. The most shocking thing about the opposition's behaviour is that this proposal contains all the things they normally talk about on the left, but not the circular farming that puts the practice of recycling waste instead of waste training. It contains this, this bill talks about it, and you vote against it. Congratulations on that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Tibor Nunkovics. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, As I have already said in the debate on the previous proposal, this proposal is bleeding from several wounds. I understand that there has been a small correction here, thanks to János Áder and the Constitutional Court, with which the proposal has actually improved an induripindurit, but in fact in the main points, I think, and we at the People's Party Jobbik think that it is still inadequate to play this role. Why am I saying this? In the beginning, we are talking about an unprecedented intervention, so such a level of nationalisation has not yet taken place in the European Union or, as we know, in any other country in the world. There have been no discussions with interest representatives, which, I think, is essential for such an important sector in such an important sector. All that's happened is that the competent ministry called in the actors and told them that it was ready, that's what you're gonna have to accept, that's the proposal, and that's it, that's it. By doing so, operators will be bled out. We admit that the consort... so we eliminate a market-based sector in which there are many players, so here we are talking about hundreds of players, where there are 30-40 thousand employees. The work of these, if we take it from one day to the next, will depend on a consensual, who, let alone, will improve competition, because, as a matter of fact, through nationalization, he will be in a monopoly position in the market, and he will make all the rules, if we take the view that he will dictate in this area. Here, thanks to the Constitutional Court, there was a minor amendment, with which economic operators will be able to receive compensation, but this compensation is also the result of a negotiation. There's no legal framework for this trial, and if they can, they'll agree, if they can't, and then the official authority will come and intervene. Obviously, this authority will not decide for the benefit of the economic operator, but for the benefit of the consort entrusted by the State. But what's even worse is that they miss out on this compensation, by the way, both private individuals, budgetary institutions and schools, so it's educational institutions. Now we want to set an example for future generations, or we want to raise future generations to environmental awareness and sustainable development by taking the institution of collecting paper out of their hands, for example, because from now on it will be a completely pointless activity, which has also been a good community-building exercise for the last many decades. You refer to circular farming. But this circular farming could otherwise be done by other countries without affecting the market situation and not by creating a concessor, but simply by creating a legal environment in which the players could be guided to the right path. Here, let's be honest, the two-thirds of Hungary can create the right legal environment, there is no need to create a concessor. Moreover, this system does not ensure at all that waste management will reach a higher level in Hungary, say next year or the following year than is currently the case. Obviously, the current system has its flaws, and you know it, and we know it. These errors should be corrected, but not by appointing a consort by the state, who will dictate the pace in a monopolistic situation and actually bleed out the municipalities, bleeding out the companies involved in waste management. [[16.00]] That is why we have said it today, which is why we have asked for a vote to get this proposal off the agenda, and you have not supported it. However, I would ask the pro-government representatives not to support the proposal in the vote, but to give the competent ministry the opportunity to sit down and negotiate with the organisations, the representatives of government, because believe me, they have a very good view and let them know what proposal they will put on the table. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2021-02-22-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Until the remaining timeframe is reached, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-149	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to ask the Secretary of State a quick question. When the debate on this law began, there was still a State Secretary responsible for energy policy and a State Secretary responsible for sustainability. We are now assessing this change by the government's assessment or perception that these policy areas are not important enough, and therefore they are combined, or I see that sustainability for the government is not worth an independent ministry but then [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Wouldn't it be worth a single secretary of state? And if I were to ask, say, the question of nuclear power, nuclear safety or radioactive waste, who is the government responsible for these issues now, in these policy areas? Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Róbert Dudás is coming from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, To tell you the truth, I would have liked it if the debate on the bill on the part of the government started with an expo, and I think that it could have helped a lot of us what has changed, what is it that they want to change, obviously we know and see from the posted materials. However, either at the meeting of the Legislative Committee or during this debate, the statements made that this is now appropriate on the part of the Constitutional Court, I can honestly say that they are not enough for me or even for us. There are two things that are certainly not included in this proposal, and this is in the interest of the profession and of the public. You may laugh at this, Mr Balla, because at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the representatives of the profession said their criticisms and opinions, and you have gone against them in full, I think, better than the waste management professionals. The opinion of the profession would be very important, otherwise not only in this bill, but also in any other bill, and it is in the interest of the public; I will not mention it, although I should obviously mention that it is in the interest of the municipalities. In recent years, in the past year and a half, the municipalities have become extremely stepchildren, and whatever bill there is, they are trying to pull a little more on the belt that can no longer be drawn, always trying to kick the local government a little bit. And then allow me to take a short approach, like the former mayor, to see how waste management and shipments of waste are happening in the settlement among the population! The transformation and centralization that started in the last decade has been completely disrupted by the usual systems, by the way, the usual practices, habits that characterized it, and the well-functioning system that was operated before it by the waste suppliers, the waste managers, was completely upset. Several times, there were three to four to five months of delays in sending cheques sent to compensate for the service, because otherwise the central system has not been set up, they cannot send it, and then they sent a six-month check at the same time. Those poor rural people who are, by the way, pensioners who have a pension of less than 100,000 forints, I don't even go to the point of thinking that if you are at home on a minimum pension of 28 500 forints, you will get six months at the same time, but only four to five months' worth of waste, how will you pay for it? They may be late, by the way, for service providers, for up to six months, if they are one day late to deposit the residents, but there are serious problems. Allow me to highlight a few more points and mention the bill. The high-quality operation of the public service requires not the nationalisation of market areas and the creation of an artificial monopoly, but the restoration of public service financing. The problem of abandoned waste would not be addressed by the concession, as the task of the consort does not cover the provision of tasks with illegally abandoned waste, it would remain a municipal authority. There is no need for nationalisation and concession to achieve a circular economy, otherwise it is completely unprecedented for the European Union in terms of market areas. In the new concession model, the concessionaire assumes from the State the obligation to carry out the concession activities, to fulfil the Union's targets and to carry out the necessary investments, while at the same time bearing the risk that its activity depends entirely on the quantity and quality of the waste. That sounds good, but there's no risk of a consort. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , since it does not receive State aid in the event of loss-making operations. For this and many other points, the Jobbik faction will not be able to support this proposal. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I am now speaking to Mr Attila Steiner, State Secretary, who indicated that he wished to close at the beginning of the debate. There you go. You have the floor. It's a 15-minute time frame.
u2021-02-22-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The law before you has been amended for only two reasons compared to what you have already supported in December 2020. [[Intercoms, among them: Can't hear!]] Can you hear it? [[Intercoms, among them: Yes.]] One of the reasons is that the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, could not fully rule out the likelihood of a possible limitation of ownership in relation to a single provision of the norm aimed at restructuring the waste management systems. I would like to point out that the President of the Republic's motion agreed with the objectives of the proposal voted on: he agreed that the transformation of waste management is justified, that is to say, the direction of increased public engagement should be supported, and only for certain provisions requested an investigation. As a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court, none of the provisions of the law you supported last year have been destroyed. This amendment is supplemented by rules which, in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law and in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, explicitly state that compensation should be granted to the owner of the waste with value, since the new provisions ensure that the concession system does not prejudice the owners of the waste because they have to provide it exclusively to the concessor instead of the option currently provided for the treatment of their waste. The other reason for the amendment is that, unlike the originally planned 1 January 2021, the law can only enter into force later and, therefore, certain provisions need to be clarified in order to ensure the applicability of the legislation. As last year's law has not been amended in any other way, it can still be said that the amendment of the Waste Act could lead to a paradigm shift in order to move to a circular economy. The government's aim is to move Hungary to the circular economy as soon as possible, reduce waste disposal, increase recycling and re-use, and create closed-chain product cycles. There have been a number of points in the debate that we are eliminating and privatising everything. In this regard, I would like to point out that the planned model is not of any interest in the reduction of the private sector, and that the state is planning to select the consort from among the private sector. [[Gergely Harvesto: By name?!]] and will only be able to exercise the privileges of the concession and fulfil the obligations with the assistance of the diverse private sector companies. In other words, everyone will have the opportunity to participate in this task as a sub-contractor in consultation with the concessionator. I would also like to stress that there are no more tasks covered by the concession activity, such as the collection, transport and management of waste not covered by waste recovery and disposal, or waste not covered by the concession activity, can continue to be carried out by private operators. [[16.10]] I would also like to point out that, in the climate and nature conservation action plan, the government has taken a clear position in favour of protecting the created world, defining the direction of action, and this bill represents this commitment. We are convinced that it is not words, but committed action that can help to protect our environmental values, in order to leave our children and grandchildren a viable world to inherit. That is why I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on our sitting today. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. In today's decisions, we also decide to accept proposals requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. [[Several congressmen are talking standing up.]] On the basis of the final vote of the bill, if the Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority, this also extends without any further specific decision to the withdrawal of the provision indicating the fundamentality of the non-approved regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. (Multiple Members talking standing up.) Before we begin the voting procedure, I will ask the staff of the hall service to check that the microphones of those in the horseshoe are changed so that they are in order, and in order to check that the voting machines are operational, we will, as usual, carry out a presence check. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking everyone to take their seats, because now you can complain that the machine doesn't work, and then it's always more complicated. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] 192 Members are present, 7 are absent, the Parliament has a quorum. I'll ask everyone else if they can signal a machine failure, or if the voting machine works for everyone. [[No signal.]] I don't see an application, so the voting machine works. It follows a decision by the President of the Republic on a proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act amending certain laws on energy and waste management adopted by the Parliament on 15 December 2020 on the date of its meeting, and a final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/13958/14. Letter from the President of the Republic T/13958/15. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. T/13958/17 and T/13958/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that it is not possible to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 11, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13958/17. Point 11 requiring a majority of its proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted a qualified majority of the amendment proposal by 131 votes in favour, 47 against and 13 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the legislative committee's amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13958/17. The points of its amendment No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the additional points of the amendment, which require a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 47 against and 13 abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we shall decide on the text of the law which has not been announced, as amended by the agreed points of the legislative committee's amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the Act, which has just been amended, which requires a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the provisions of the Act amending certain laws relating to energy and waste management that require a qualified majority, which has not been announced, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has adopted the provisions of the law, which requires a qualified majority, with 132 votes in favour, 47 against and 13 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the law, which requires a simple majority, which has just been amended. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the provisions of the Act amending certain laws relating to energy and waste management, which has not been published, which require a simple majority, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has adopted the provisions of the law, which requires a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 46 against and 13 abstentions. The next step is the T/14800 on the control of the Crown Virus pandemic. Final vote of bill No 1. I would remind you that, according to our previous decision, the bill was discussed in an urgent hearing by the Parliament. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the DK Group proposed to maintain Amendment 5. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mr Gergely Arató and Mr Zoltán Varga. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 132 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did any amendments to the proposal, we decided on the submitted text of the bill in the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/14800. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 55 against and 1 abstention. We now decide on the provisions of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/14800. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstention. [[16.20]] The parliamentary report by the President of the Curia on the adoption of the report on the operation of the Curia in 2019 on the provision of the legal unit and the control of local government standards H/13952. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/13952. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 145 votes to 9 with 33 abstentions. H/13947 on the adoption of the 2019 report by the President of the National Court of Justice Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the H/13947. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 129 votes in favour, 58 against and two abstentions. [[Continue in 181/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Monday 22 February 2021 181/2. Number Parliamentary Diary H/13930 on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2019. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/13930. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 127 votes in favour, 58 against and 1 abstention. It follows from the publication of the T/14938 on the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Tax Convention Measures to Prevent Erosion and Profit Transfers Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/14938/1. He submitted an adjustment, which is available to all of us on the House's network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/14938. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 188 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows from the 2019 amendment of the Convention on the Unification of Certain Legislation for International Aviation in Montreal, 28 May 1999, published by the International Civil Aviation Organisation on 28 June 2019, Member State Notification No LE 3/38.1-19.50 and the Convention on the Unification of Certain Legislation for International Aviation in Montreal, 28 May 1999, published by the International Civil Aviation Organisation on 11 October 2019 on the publication of the Member State Notification No LE 3/38.1-19/70 issued by the International Civil Aviation Organisation. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1493. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 189 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. We now have the T/14940 to announce the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on cooperation in the field of military aviation. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/14940. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's bill with 186 votes in favour... [[For signal:]] Mr. Vice President, I'd like to add an extra vote. István Hiller, Vice President. So once again: 186 plus 1 vote in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It follows a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Finland, the Government of the People's Republic of Hungary and the... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: A unified resolution system! Interventions from the opposition: Unified resolution! Zoltán Balczó: And the vote was canceled.]] Excuse me. Two cards stuck together. It follows that the T/14941 on the publication of the Agreement amending the Intergovernmental Agreement on the Single Resolution System is to be concluded. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/14941. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 166 votes in favour, with 21 abstentions, without voting against. It follows a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the announcement of the agreement between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of the agreement on the protection of investments T/14942. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/14942. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 187 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the promotion and mutual protection of investments will be published in T/14943. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/14943. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 187 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, I/15078. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 127 votes in favour, 59 against and 1 abstention. [[16.30]] Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, I/15077. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Representative László Varju, representative of DK, I/14750. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 126 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, MEPs Krisztina Hohn and Péter Ungár, representatives of LMP, I/14955. No response to their interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, I/15076. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Congressman János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, I/15063. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, I/15074. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 59 against and 1 abstention. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, I/15072. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 59 against and 1 abstention. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of LMP, I/15073. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! It is up to you to discuss and decide on immunity issues. I would like to inform you that a motion for the waiver of the immunity of Congressman György Simonka has been received by the KSB. 3682/2019/13-I. in charge of the prosecution of the prosecution of a bribery of the Attorney General. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/15158. Parliamentary Member György Simonka presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to President János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-155	Dear Parliament, [[Intercoms, among them: No sound! Lajos Rig: You're not even listening to this! Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2021-02-22-156	His name hasn't come out yet, just now. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said here, the Attorney General has turned to Parliament in his transcript and is proposing the suspension of the immunity of Congressman György Simonka for the prosecution of bribery. In his pleading, the Attorney General returns to the crime on which the Member's immunity has already been suspended by the Parliament, which was essentially about fiscal fraud. The congressman indicated that he wished to attend a meeting of the immunity committee, but it could not happen because he was called elsewhere by another case. [[Demercation and intervention in opposition parties: Another criminal case! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's not that smiley. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] But he turned to the immunity committee with a very thorough submission. He is the one I quote: "Let us not only judge this question on the basis of customary law, but also on the merits of the questions that I have raised. That's what the immunity committee did. Anyone affected by this will obviously be able to see the minutes. In this pleading, he asks many questions which may be exciting in court proceedings, and the court will obviously respond to them, but the immunity committee has been able to remove from itself the substantive examination of these issues, because these are questions which are essentially questions of criminal, subjective or procedural law, and their judgment is not within the competence of the immunity committee, but the jurisdiction of the court. What is it that the committee does in every case, especially when it comes to public prosecutorial procedures? Investigate that the motion was made to the National Assembly by those who were entitled to do so. In this case, only the Attorney General can do so at this stage of criminal proceedings. Obviously, it was easy for us to see that it was the Attorney General. The Attorney General refers to the facts of a criminal law that could give rise to an indictment. The immunity committee was able to determine that. The immunity committee was also able to conclude that this criminal case, which is a bribe in this particular procedure, could be linked to Congressman Simonka, because according to the Attorney General's information, there is testimony, testimony of witnesses, testimony of suspects and physical evidence. That's all the immunity committee has to do with investigating these issues, whether they're public or private, all the other cases, which, I'm telling you, were part of a very thorough submission, are a matter for the court, so we've ruled out their investigation. The immunity committee held itself in this respect to what I used to describe here, the customary right to issue immunity to the congressman in public cases. I'm giving you numbers now because I've been looking into it with my colleagues on the case. Since the change of regime, 83 public cases have been brought before the Parliament, and in 17 cases neither the Member's immunity has been filed by the Parliament, but these 17 cases concerned the first two cycles of the Parliament after the change of regime. So since then, the practice that I think is correct is that the first rule is to issue a public complaint, suspend the immunity of the congressman. [[16.40]] The committee has already voted on this: with 6 unanimous votes, we propose to the Parliament that in this particular case the Member's immunity be suspended by the Parliament. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Congressman György Simonka to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[György Simonka: No.]] He doesn't want to. Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position to suspend the immunity of the congressman from the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Congressman György Simonka. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended Mr Simonka György's immunity by 174 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion for the waiver of the immunity of Mrs Szabó Timea 16.Bpk.1800/2020/4. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He brought a private charge of defamation from the District Court. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/151556. Parliamentary Member Szabó Timea presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to President János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said, Annex II is amended as follows: Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The District Court shall appeal to the Parliament in its transcript, in which it proposes that Congresswoman Timea Szabó's immunity be suspended for defamation. In examining the facts described, we could conclude that on 7 October 2020 Szabó Timea made statements in his Facebook post, which he later said in the Óbuda newspaper on 19 October, which he had practically repeated in the newspaper, which he made in order to undermine honor, according to the reporter. By the way, the indictor is the former mayor of Óbuda. This case was also echoed in the press, a kindergarten, a kindergarten teacher involved in this case. The Cyber Crime Department of the National Detective Office of the Alert Police has prosecuted a kindergarten educator. The debate between the two public figures, so the debate between the congresswoman and the former mayor, is about the fact that in this embarrassing case, the former mayor did as he should have done. That's the position of the former mayor, and the congresswoman says she didn't do what she was supposed to do for political reasons. So that's the essence of their conflict. I've just told you what we're looking at. On this basis, we have been able to conclude that we can follow the established principle of customary law here, as a private prosecution procedure, and the Committee on immunity has decided, by majority vote, not to suspend the immunity of Mrs Szabó in the case in question. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-22-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am now going to ask Congresswoman Timea Szabó, Group Leader, if you would like to speak. [[Szabó Timea: No.]] He doesn't want to. Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position not to suspend the parliamentary immunity of the congresswoman. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of the Parliamentary Congressman Szabó Timea. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Szabó Timea by 10 votes in favour, 156 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that another motion for the waiver of the immunity of Parliamentary MEP Szabó Timea 14.Bpk.2055/2020/3. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He brought a private charge of defamation from the District Court. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/15157. Parliamentary Member Szabó Timea presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will once again give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What I have to tell you is that the committee was consistent here, but it's more embarrassing for all of us, so now you're gonna be able to smile on the other side, if that's what you're in the mood for. [[Noise.]] that it was said here, the Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The District Court refers in its transcript to the Parliament, in which it proposes that Mrs Szabó's immunity be suspended on the ground of defamation. A Facebook entry provides the basis for this, which could have been extracted by the committee among the facts, and the unpleasant thing is that the constructions around Lake Öreg in Tata are involved, and the representative in her speech managed to put HELL ENERGY Magyarország Kft. in a difficult position, the kft., which, as a legal person, has nothing to do with this investment, but did not mention the person who wants to build it. [[It's a lot of noise. Szabó Timea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] So, in this respect, the congresswoman was wrong. But the immunity committee...
u2021-02-22-162	Madam Director, you have the opportunity to answer-- Here you go, Mr. President.
u2021-02-22-163	Here, too, the immunity committee has seen as a guide what it has developed in its practice to consider private cases as, in principle, a distraction from parliamentary work, and we support parliamentary work, even in such cases. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's constant noise.]] Therefore, in this case, the immunity committee, with a majority vote, decided to propose to the Parliament that, despite the failure to do so, we should not suspend the immunity of the congresswoman in this particular case. [[Crying from the pro-government benches: He doesn't deserve it! It's constant noise.]]
u2021-02-22-164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am now going to ask Mr Timea Szabó to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[Szabó Timea says yes.]] There you go. You have the floor. Please make a statement to Szabó Timea, Head of the Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-02-22-165	I didn't hear Máté Kocsis' constructive comment, but I'm sure... [[Máté Kocsis: I'll send it over!]] Okay, he'll text you. Good. I would just like to say one thing, ladies and gentlemen. Feel free to suspend my immunity. I'd be so happy to defend my position. I would just like to say that HELL is the owner of the company that wants to carry out this investment. So the fact that they had nothing to do with it is a little baroque in that regard. I am very happy to defend my position in court, so I urge you to suspend my immunity. Thank you.
u2021-02-22-166	Thank you very much. Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position not to suspend the parliamentary immunity of the congresswoman. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of the MP Szabó Timea. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not suspended the immunity of Szabó Timea by 14 votes in favour, 147 against and 4 abstentions. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[16.50]] Everyone had a chance to talk, and I'd like to make one more decision in any way, so please be patient. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that István Tiba has received a motion to waive his immunity 80.Bpk.1777/2020/5-II. I'm a member of the Debrecen District Court on a private charge of defamation. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/15155. István Tiba presented a proposal for a resolution concerning the immunity of a Member of Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will once again give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The District Court of Debrecen turned to the Parliament in its transcript, proposing the suspension of the immunity of the MP István Tiba for defamation. The current mayor of the indictment Balmazújváros. The congressman's Facebook entry also gave rise to a complaint. In short, but to the point, the congressman said that between Balmazújváros and 14 and 18 he received some HUF 3 billion and HUF 191 million in funding for tender development, whereas the current mayor, as a representative of the Free Cities, talks about HUF 2228 million in a paid advertisement; the difference between the two is HUF 960 million. Congressman István Tiba believed that this amount would be stolen by the current city administration, and therefore with your hands off the register in Balmazújváros. The current mayor felt that he had to tolerate more as a public figure than if he had not made such a statement about a public figure, but he argued that this was already going beyond the limits set by the Constitutional Court and therefore made his complaint. We followed the line of inquiry here, which I told you during my first speech: here too, the committee decided, with a majority decision, that the parliamentary assembly should not suspend the immunity of Member István Tiba as a private accusation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will now ask Mr István Tiba, who wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. It is therefore up to the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of the MP István Tiba. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not suspended the immunity of Member István Tiba by 6 votes in favour, 164 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We've reached the end of the decisions. Now I'm ordering a two-minute technical break, and then we'll get back to work. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] [[Break: 16.53-16.56]] I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Dear House, Fellow Members! MEPs Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask Congressman György Szilágyi to accept the person of the response, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-169	Thank you, Mr. President. We'll wait for the Prime Minister to answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-170	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I respectfully ask Mr László György Lukács to accept the person of the respondents.
u2021-02-22-171	Thank you very much, but no, I'd like to wait for the Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: what is the truth? It's an address. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that because of the Minister's absence, Mr Sándor Farkas has appointed Minister of State to answer. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. It is quite difficult to say what Fidesz was most confronted with in comparison to its earlier promises; of course, it is not difficult to say this because there are so few examples, on the contrary: too many, too many choices. [[17.00]] In any case, I am sure that I would place the estate policy on the podium, so this is the area where you must have faced your earlier promise. They promised us a turn of opposition, that we would build the Hungarian countryside on the network of small family farmers, and they would be the backbone on which to build. Compared to this, the government of the last eleven years has proved that they have turned back and are building a kind of modern feudalism here in our country. Brutal estate concentration is taking place, and the subsidies are obviously going to this narrow circle, not to mention that the state lands have been mostly, at least the most greasy parts of them. But it seems that nothing is enough for you, quite simply this word, that is enough, you do not know. The latest scandal of Antal Rogán, Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, where his newest wife and family were preparing to buy land in Borsod for HUF 1600 million. When the whole thing went off, your reaction was kind of embarrassing, and then when it became untenable, Antal Rogán and the entire government press also spoke. They were screaming lies, saying, please, there's nothing to see here. But then, a few days later, the documents came up, and from then on, this defense became unbearable, and a difficult, forced, pathetic explanation began. So I would ask Mr Secretary of State to try to shed light on this story so that details can be made clear, what is the government's position at all, so that 1600 hectares can be bought by a family close to the government. I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2021-02-22-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State, Mr. Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister. Here you go. [[Sándor Farkas' microphone doesn't work, so he gets a portable microphone.]]
u2021-02-22-175	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, You always come up with a land for farmers! How unfair, how distinctive, what supposed anomalies it contains, how unfair it is for you to tell you that you know very well that the land is for farmers! The program was one of our most successful programs. The land from public property to private property, the land for farmers! It has been programmed, and it is clear to date that these areas have been used in an appropriate way. I would like to say to your specific question: as the Ministry of Agriculture has already indicated in response to previous press searches, I now confirm once again and I know, behind your question, that this was the fact that Minister István Nagy did not meet or speak with Minister Antal Rogán at all in connection with the alleged land purchase case. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] All other assumptions are part of your campaign of hatred based on lies and your left-wing friends, which I must strongly reject, even because you always come up with matters that have neither the reality nor any other implications for virtually attacking the ruling parties. I would like to ask my honourable fellow Member, as the Member who has experience in agriculture, to ask me, and next time, questions that give me the opportunity to ask real, well-founded questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-176	Thank you very much. I watched the time, the time ran out in the beginning, and Secretary Sándor Farkas held the two minutes. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman Zoltán Magyar. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, it lasted two minutes, but many of them cannot be extracted. Just don't deny it, Mr. Secretary, that it was a contract, because these documents were published by the press. Then, of course, we also know that this case has become so unpleasant that it is said that Viktor Orbán himself has banned the Antalak Rogán from buying this land. But speaking of this matter, Mr Secretary of State, we would have been happy to have the answer, for example, that the Hungarian State is finally exercising its pre-emptive right to purchase, and apparently, in the case of a purchase of land so obviously speculating, it will obtain these lands, so that it will then be given to really locally-living, indeed family farmers, let us say, a permanent lease. Or, let's just say, it would have been a good answer to the fact that they started to examine who and what they wanted to buy this land from, at all events, Mr. Secretary of State considered it realistic that someone would go into a financial institution today and receive more than a billion forints of credit for buying land. What is your position on this? Why didn't the Hungarian state move in time when they really did [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Was it a purely speculating purchase of land?
u2021-02-22-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-179	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I'm sure you're well aware of the rules under which land can be bought under the Land Traffic Act. In the case in question, the competent government office also acted in accordance with this procedure, i.e. the contract received from the notary, stating that, on the basis of its content and formalities, it did not comply with the provisions of the Land Traffic Act, on this basis the Government Office took a decision refusing approval, which it also delivered to the legal representative by post. A judicial review may be initiated by the Contracting Parties at the competent court within 30 days of the date of notification of the refusal, and the earth traffic procedure at the competent government office has been completed by the service of the decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Szabó, Member of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Why is it necessary to change the model of higher education institutions if EU funds are available to universities in state reserve to increase competitiveness and develop institutions? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear Mr. Messenger, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda appointed Minister of State, Deputy Minister. I respectfully ask you: do you accept the person of the responder? [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Mr Notary, for accepting the response, so it is next, Mr Sándor Szabó, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In January, it suddenly became very important for the government to reform domestic higher education in terms of rural universities as well, which basically meant that in the future a foundation of 5-7 lifelong board membership would operate the universities of Pécs, Szeged and Debrecen, including state wealth, which would be valid for the future. In the time of Christmas, of course, the answers from your competent ministry were, in fact, that the change of maintenance model was not at all on the agenda, since there was once a dog sale in Buda, and then there was a dog sale. It is more than suspicious that this is happening when we actually know that HUF 1500-2000 billion is coming to Hungarian higher education, primarily from the EU catch-up fund, and the argument that the public procurement procedure is not actually carried out or can be carried out much simpler in the form of a foundation is very revealing, and that EU funds can be used more easily. But yet, such a quick, sudden, uncoordinated way of conversion raises a number of questions. Whose interest is that? What is the real purpose of the university model change? Do Hungarian citizens, including the 162 thousand citizens of Szeged, have reason to worry that this transformation actually serves the power interests of Fidesz, not the common good, but the new economic gain? By the way, the Senate meeting in Szeged was very scandalous, where it was decided that a number of irregularities occurred. [[17.10]] It was not possible to know exactly what they had voted on, then a number of people had resigned after the Senate meeting, and a number of people had asked to repeat the vote. I ask Mr Secretary of State that if we know that this is a great deal of money, this 1500 billion can be used for the future functioning of universities, for improvements and for increasing competitiveness, then why is there a need for a change of model. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-02-22-182	Thank you very much. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In short, it can be summarized why a change of model is needed: the government is counting on Hungarian higher education institutions as central players in economic development and innovation, and we want these institutions to be even more successful, even more effective, even more competitive in international comparison. We want these institutions to give young Hungarians knowledge and skills that can make them successful in the future. Honourable Member, that is what we want. And we have also made it clear several times that the government has already initiated the change of model at the latest in the autumn session in the institutions where we thought it was absolutely necessary. Honourable Congressman, After that, the institutions themselves indicated that several institutions themselves had indicated that they would like to participate in this model change process. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] He would also like to take advantage of the possibility that the property needed for education will be transferred to his own property; it should also be possible for him to operate more freely and autonomously (Gergely Arató intervenes). ; be more flexible [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the organisation of life in higher education institutions. Honourable Congressman, It is clear and clear what the universities tell us: the Senate voted 13 yeses, zeroes and zeroes at the University of Dunaújváros; 65 yeses, zeroes and 3 abstentions at the University of Debrecen; 41 yeses, zeroes and 1 abstentions at the University of Semmelweis; 29 yeses, 16 genders and 7 abstentions at the University of Szeged. Honourable Congressman, Let it be clear: the Senates of higher education institutions have decided, and they want a change of model. My request, honourable Member, is to support the Senate of universities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-22-184	Thank you very much. Mr Sándor Szabó, Parliamentary notary, has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I see the rector of Pécs, Szeged, Debrecen, so they wake up after the new year, and, sitting with the Senate, they quickly figure out that, by the way, this month, January, the change of model has to happen, because otherwise, the Senate has to decide, and you have no influence on it. You don't really mean that, do you? That's one thing. The other: a year and a half ago, there was a change of model at Corvinus University, and now there are experiences. What happened? Loss of trust; dismissals of professors; termination of civil servant relationships; loss of autonomy [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Again? Have they lost their autonomy again? Third or fourth time...]] ; changes in the composition of the Senate, disinheriting its powers; university faculty ceased and consolidated them. There are fights due to differentiated wages, and most importantly, student interest has decreased by 20 percent. Is this what you call a successful model change? Well, then, I guess we're not asking for any of this, so I suggest you send a message to the board of trustees so they don't get too organized. Thank you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Threat! He's threatening professors! István Szilárd Németh: Wow! That's tough.]]
u2021-02-22-186	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It seems that Ferenc Gyurcsány has clearly given you the order to threaten university professors [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is the university going to be an alien?]] ; the Senate must be threatened; the duly appointed leaders of the board of trustees should be threatened. Honourable Congressman, My request to you is to stop this threat. You do not want to make a decision over the head of the university Senate that you, as a Member of Parliament, can express your opinion, but Parliament will discuss the bill that will be about the change of model. On behalf of the university, I ask you not to make a statement. They spoke on behalf of the university, who are entitled to do so: the Senate of the University. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] The Senate of the University has made it very clear what you want. My request is that you respect it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-22-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-02-22-189	I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-02-22-190	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: Why are they not complying with the law? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Rétvári has appointed Bencé to respond. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating that you accept the person you are responding to. Mr László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-191	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. We're talking about the same subject for more than one time, but we're not getting anywhere, but I'm gonna do it again. It is a multi-annual story that the Constitutional Court has declared your law on the regulation of invalid pensions to be unconstitutional, because it is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. This was the law that put hundreds of thousands of disabled pensioners in a position to be forced to undergo humiliating reviews and, on the other hand, to deprive them of their legitimate benefits or to reduce these benefits. The Constitutional Court has given you, at the time of your decision, a time limit until you have to correct this error, as long as the anti-constitutional law is to be corrected or, perhaps, to damage those who have been wrongly harmed. This deadline, with all due respect, was March 2019, so it is almost a two-year anniversary of this. Nothing happened, although it wasn't yesterday, it wasn't the day before yesterday, it wasn't last year. So let's get on with it. You put hundreds of thousands of people in a worse position than before with an unconstitutional law. This has been stated by the Constitutional Court, of which you have already appointed each member, and this deadline, which was set by the Constitutional Court, has not been held yet, and is not being held now. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Dear Secretary of State, There are two possible cases: either you do what the Constitutional Court says, or you do something unconstitutional, or you are unfit to govern, because you cannot solve in two years how you solve the problem that you have created yourself. I ask you, Secretary of State, which of the two is true: do you make a decision, a decision of the Constitutional Court, or are you unfit to do so? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2021-02-22-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you are, Secretary of State, the floor is yours as Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are attacking legislation that has contributed to a radical increase in employment for people with disabilities so that they can live not on aid but on wages. This law, which you have just criticized, has also contributed to the rise from 18 percent to 44 percent of the number of people with changed working skills who can live on wages and wages. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] as regards your use of the word, it may be because you are not a lawyer, so you can easily say the words "constitutional and similar": the Constitutional Court has not said that the right to property has been violated; it has not said that it has an obligation to compensate the government; it has not said that it has an obligation to pay interest to the government; it has not said that this amendment is contrary to the Fundamental Law. He said that there is an international treaty on the basis of which there is an obligation to submit legislation to the government. He said that, but he didn't say any more, so even though we didn't talk for the first time, it seems like my pedagogical skills have a problem. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] 'Cause I still haven't been able to explain it to you, or maybe it's your ability to understand the text that's the problem, maybe it's the more likely [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So that the Constitutional Court has not made any decision of the kind that you have spoken of here, honourable Member. But if you look at the budget figures, in which you see that last year's HUF 45,6 billion, this year's HUF 48.6 billion will be spent on the fact that last year, 375, 394 accredited employers last year and 32 700 people this year can work, you would see that in this system we can provide more and more people with an ever higher income. This was opposed by your policy before 2010, which kept these people in the world of aid in the very long term, which is less of a human being. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-22-194	Thank you very much. I rang the bell because I thought that part of it was personal, and I wanted to stop it. So in return, I give the floor to Congressman László Sebian-Petrovsk. [[17.20]]
u2021-02-22-195	If I understand correctly, Mr Secretary of State's reply, it should be welcomed by hundreds of thousands of disabled pensioners who are in worse shape today than before this law, that some of them may have been better off since then, because they have received a bigger increase. This is outrageous in itself, Mr. Secretary. Even more than that, your boss Viktor Orbán said more when I asked him the same question last May. Look back, it is in the parliamentary diary, he said that this is a complicated question, but they are working on the answer. At least we got this far. It's been almost a year since then. In almost a year, hundreds of thousands of people, especially now because of the effects of the epidemic, live in even worse living conditions, have even greater problems. Should we answer them, Mr. Secretary, that some of them have benefited in recent years because the government has raised more? Do you want him to buy, like, pills? Is this how you treat your family? This answer alone is outrageous, not an answer, and, of course, it in itself upsets the crowd who is affected by it. I'm telling you, we're talking about hundreds of thousands of people. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-22-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-197	Thank you very much. There is relatively little time left to respond because I have to fill the time frame by correcting you. There are, of course, hundreds of thousands of people. It's not like anyone's in a worse position. After all, what was this review about, honourable Member? The fact that everyone who is not able to work is entitled to benefits in accordance with their real health status is a kind of help, and if someone has been found to have deteriorated in, say, five years or ten years, they have received a higher benefit if they have improved their health, and we have been able to increase their income by rehab or other training or work. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: 180,000 were worse!]] From this, it is not the conclusion you make, honourable Member, that anyone's financial situation here would have deteriorated. Everyone has either not changed in relation to their physical condition, or, if they have improved, they have been able to work and therefore have improved, or if their health has deteriorated, and their benefits have increased. So everyone was able to come out of this. Your Minister and your Secretary of State have said earlier that the state of the state's social benefits is unsustainable. You'd better look around the Gyurcsány government, honourable Member, if you're looking for such sentences. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I ask my fellow Members to be patient with each other, and preferably not to yell at each other under what they have to say, since it has also waited for what you have to say. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Minister the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-02-22-199	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-02-22-200	I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer you at the hour of the second immediate question. Thank you for staying standing, because you're on your way. Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Minister? Due to Mr. Minister's absence, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. [[For signal:]] Mr. Fraction Manager indicates that he accepts the identity of the responder. László Lóránt Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-201	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, You have just received a question from Mr Szabó here about the change of model in the case of university outsourcing, and you have practically not answered a single question, so I suggest that we start this question again. What you lie about changing models is the outsourcing of universities, university wealth, university property, university decision-making and political direction. The aim is quite clear, and this has already been said: ensuring that the EU funds for research and development are allocated to the next development period. You want to privatize the largest rural universities, eliminate university autonomy, and ignore centuries-old traditions. It is a lie that you want to develop, that you would take the development of universities and higher education seriously. Why haven't they done this since 2010? Why hasn't his teachers, researchers and workers' wages in the higher education sector been ignominious to this day? Why did they pursue such a policy that the number of students fell to an astonishing degree? We're talking about three major rural universities. In the case of the three universities alone, the number of students decreased by 30,000 in ten years. So if they wanted to improve, they could have. My specific questions, Mr. Secretary. What does it have to do with the development, the expansion of resources, the organisation of universities into foundations, foundations whose statutes allow the board to take all decisions? What does the development have to do with you naming uninvitable curators, and you can see that there are long examples of specific politicians, ministers, ministers of state, Members of Parliament being appointed in a very small number? What model change is it to privatise the university into fidesz foundations, but also to make taxpayers pay for the funding of higher education? Is it true, Mr. Secretary, that the three major universities in Pécs, Szeged and Debrecen have already formulated a significant downsizing before the change of model? Is this news true? I ask for your unpolitical response. The citizens of Pécs, Debrecen and Szeged rightly expect you not to give party politics but a fair, clear answer to questions. Thank you.
u2021-02-22-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. As I said, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-22-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that it is a little unfair, because if I know that you are asking an immediate question in this matter, then I will tell Mr Szabó what mistakes we have had to correct in the last few years after left-wing governance. But not just to repeat myself, so allow me to draw attention to what you know perfectly well, by the way. We've taken over higher education in a terrible state from your left-wing allies, the people you call a politician in education that you're trying to get back into power. You, honourable Member, are in favour of an education policy where you want to introduce tuition fees to students. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Your left-wing allies wanted all university students in Hungary to pay tuition fees. Honourable Congressman, Let us not forget that this failed left-wing education policy also owed the higher education institutions tens of billions forints. They created something called a PPP scheme that was only suitable for external actors, only they could achieve extra profit on it. From this we had to free the system of Hungarian higher education, from which we had to free Hungarian universities and colleges, and we have replaced 19 unfavorable PPP constructions with a value of HUF 39 billion since 2010. Honourable Congressman, We've done a lot of work in the last decade. Hungarian higher education is much better than when your left-wing allies governed. There is still much work to be done, in which these institutions can be more successful, more effective, more competitive after a model change. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-205	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State hasn't answered a single question to me. Currently, a university assistant with a doctorate degree has a net monthly salary of approximately 185 thousand forints. Is that fair to you? Who is responsible for this situation? I believe that since 2010, they have had plenty of opportunities to settle humiliatingly low salaries. You did mention that the Senate voted to start a model change. We do not know about Debrecen at every senate meeting, because the senators said that there was a need for guarantees in this process, guarantees that the Senate could delegate a significant majority of the membership of the Foundation Boards and ensure recall. This has not been achieved with the change of model so far. When will resources be provided, and what additional resources, in terms of what quantity? The 15 percent wage increase is completely inadequate. It is very important to know what the fate of medical faculties and related clinics will be in the case of the three universities concerned. Mr. Secretary. Szeged, Pécs, Debrecen's fate is linked to these universities, both from an economic and employment point of view. I would very much ask you not to repeat party politics, to finally give fair answers to the questions rightly raised. Thank you.
u2021-02-22-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[17 .30]]
u2021-02-22-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think you're the ones who make party politics when you seem to be in the left-wing benches, imagining you as Senate members of universities, saying sentences that you know are not true. Mr President, may I also point out that we will still have the opportunity to debate these issues, as these legislative proposals for institutions that are initiating a change of model will be presented to Parliament. And thirdly, honourable Member, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that the change of model allows wages to improve in higher education. We are also interested in improving wages in higher education, we believe that this is an important task and that the change of model can contribute to this. It is no coincidence that significant wage increases can also be expected in model-shifting institutions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány and Timea Szabó, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is going on? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, gave him the right to reply. I respectfully ask Mr Sándor Burány to accept the person of the response or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-209	Thank you, Mr President, but we will wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-02-22-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister must give an answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear House, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that because of the Minister's absence, you have appointed Secretary of State Rétvári to answer. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The thing is, at last they had a good proposal for a raise in medical wages and the abolition of the gratuity money, which we also supported, since it settled a debt of many decades. But you managed to ruin it, because you put in this completely unnecessary new employee status, which is more trouble than good. As a result, the situation is now that, in the middle of the epidemic, in less than a week's time, the employment of health workers will change, but there is more uncertainty than certainty. According to the Independent Health Union and the Hungarian Doctors' Union, there are a lot of problems with the new contracts. On the one hand, there are healthcare workers who still have not received their new contract, employment contract, faulty or not clear about many employment contracts, according to which they will receive their wages. At present, the fear that they will receive less than what is due, or that the on-call fee will not exceed, but less than the regular hourly rate, is also injustice. It is no coincidence that, according to research by the Independent Health Union, 25 percent of workers do not want to work under the new rules. This would result in a further shortage of workers, which would jeopardise the safety of patient care. Dear Secretary of State, Please answer the following questions. How many professionals have indicated that they will not sign the new contract, how many employees have signed it? How can it be that someone has not yet received their contract? Can you guarantee that no one will have less salary than before? Will the on-call fee be increased compared to the original draft? Or would you consider pushing this completely pointless and harmful thing away in view of the epidemic situation? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-02-22-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-22-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You speak on behalf of the left, honourable Member, which has been the only actor in Hungarian history that has reduced the pay of doctors, voted here in Parliament. [[Car Cake Olivio and Sándor Burány intervene.]] You are running on a list with them, campaigning with them and preparing for government in 2022, who have never taken a month's wages from Hungarian doctors and Hungarian nurses in a way, just to clarify who is asking these questions, honourable Member. In order to make the transition as flexible as possible, everyone should have more time to think about their situation, so the government decided that although the wage increase was already valid as of 1 January, and that everyone was already paid an increased wage in January at the beginning of February, regardless of which the government allowed another two months to change the relationship, it would push it out in time to give everyone more time to think about it. There is already a new kind of procedure for health care, which has changed during the epidemic. There are city hospitals, there are county hospitals above them, which also coordinate their operation, and county hospitals and national institutions are coordinated by the National Hospital Directorate General. This is how the change of relationship is now taking place. The National Hospital Directorate-General has sent out a long and detailed briefing so that both county hospitals and city hospitals can inform doctors about who works in the hospital and who can decide exactly what they choose. We are talking about an increase in wages, honourable Member, which the left has never, ever stepped off in Hungary, and even acted in the opposite way, because it has reduced wages for doctors. A novice doctor can earn no less than HUF 481,000 today, a doctor who has worked for 20 years can earn no less than HUF 1 million, towards the end of a career, and a doctor with 40 years of experience cannot earn less than HUF 1 million 666,000 this year. This is what we defend against the epidemic, because such an increase in medical wages, we trust, will also help to protect the health of as many people as possible in the epidemic situation. I'll continue from here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-22-215	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I couldn't answer any of the questions, but if I were you, I'd be more modest. Probably because your boss doesn't work at all. So the Minister for Health is not here anyway. Maybe that's what we should be dealing with, what about the status of health professionals and doctors, new employment contracts, but we don't see that either, but we just see that they're posting pre-recorded PR videos. It's quite amazing that the Minister of Health doesn't work in this situation in an epidemiological situation. And, Mr. Secretary of State, it does not give evidence of organisation that, just three days ago, new detailed rules were published in these treaties. Is that what you call government? You think this is a prepared government plan that you're working on right now? And you think it's acceptable for health workers in the middle of the epidemic to focus on hiding the Internet, consulting with labour workers, negotiating with trade unions, what they're gonna do with their salary, what they're gonna do with their contract of employment, that's all right, Mr. Secretary of State?
u2021-02-22-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In pre-recorded PR videos, I think that your boss, Gergely Christmas, can be approached by very few people, you govern on Facebook, and you believe that it will work in the long run, but life doesn't justify that in Budapest. Honourable Congressman, The government adopted a proposal, a pay table that was proposed by the Hungarian Medical Chamber. The Chamber presented its proposal, and the government said that yes, it would do so, considering that it required hundreds of billions of dollars of extra funding from the budget. But while the left, when he was on the government, was reducing the pay of doctors in times of crisis, on the other hand, this government, the right-wing government, is increasing, not by 10% and 20%, but by doubling the pay of doctors, and you are attacking it, honourable Member. It's not an easy task, but it looks like you're willing to do it. When this program ends two years from now, in January 2023, a starting doctor's wages will be at least 687,000 forints, a doctor working 20 years will earn nearly 1.5 million forints, and a doctor working 41 years will earn HUF 2 million and 380 thousand forints, honourable Member. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is the decent wage that was achieved under a right-wing government for Hungarian doctors. They deserve it. We hope that more Hungarians will be able to maintain their health during and after the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister, without a wallet for families, an immediate question:. Kritize and then pick up the CSOK with this left-wing logic? It's an address. Madam Member, because of the absence of Minister, Mr Róbert Zsigó has appointed Minister of State to reply. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The benefit of the families introduced by the Fidesz-KDNP government in 2015 and the measures of the Family Protection Action Plan are aimed at encouraging children more than ever, supporting the start-up and home creation of young people, recognising the efforts of families and families. [[17.40]] We are committed to supporting home creation and childbearing, which we cannot better justify than the fact that the range of benefits available for CSOK has continued to expand from this year onwards, despite the coronal virus epidemic. The Fidesz-KDNP government, unlike left-wing governments, is not dealing with the crisis by hurting Hungarian families; unlike the left-wing coalition, who reduced the family tax allowance in 2008-2009 for three children and several children from HUF 10 thousand per child to HUF 4,000 per month, shortening the legal period by one year, reducing the upper age limit of the family allowance from 23 to 20. During the Gyurcsány government period, the price of energy was increased 15 times: electricity doubled, gas tripled, and I mentioned only a few of the austerity measures. Left-wing politicians continue their destructive activities even in opposition, following their conduct under their government. They're attacking our family support measures. In their speeches, they question their effectiveness, painting the wrong picture that only the rich can use them. Ladies and gentlemen, The grapes are sour? Ladies and gentlemen, In Parliament's debates on home creation, you have always spoken out against the effectiveness of family policy measures. Despite this, Bertalan Tóth, president of the MSZP, bought a new home with HUF 10 million of housing support. That is, after the shame of the missed action, the attack on the newly submitted family policy proposals [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] After that, however, the Socialist Party's faction leader will use the support. In view of what has been said, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that the negative campaign on the left hinders the achievement of family policy objectives. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-220	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as we have heard, will be given by Secretary of State Róbert Zsigó. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In 2010, the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, a very difficult period for Hungarian people, Hungarian families, ended. In 2010, the Hungarian people were at a low point in family formation and childbearing, which is no wonder [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] because the left had abolished the former home creation system, thus pushing most of the families into foreign currency loans. During that period, they only took me away from families and kept on being restrictive. The left, at the head of the MSZP, has been violently attacking the family home creation discount for many years. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Shame! Z. Kárpát, Dániel: He doesn't even take her on vacation!]] which has helped more than 159 thousand families since its introduction in 2015, with a total value of HUF 505 billion. But let's see what the MSZP MEPs have been saying about this. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said, I quote: The CSOK is simply unattainable or carries a huge risk. The fake news producer Lajos Korózs was able to say that the CSOK is a life alien, free from all kinds of realities. And Bertalan Tóth himself, about whom your question is also about, said here in Parliament in 2018, and I quote, the notion that if anyone has money and wants to buy an apartment is absolutely amazing, let's help them with this facility called CSOK. That's what Bertalan Tóth said. I would like to add, Madam President, that, under the regulations in force, family home-building benefits can be claimed by all Hungarian citizens who meet the legal requirements, but what I do not consider fair is that there are left-wing Members here in Parliament who smack these measures and then take them in their daily lives. Of course, by referring to your question, it would be better for family support to be free of party political disputes. Until that happens, I can safely say that Fidesz-KDNP and the national government can count on families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: We are criticizing the family home creation program, yet everyone is recording it.]]
u2021-02-22-222	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-02-22-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I think that the results in the area of family policy speak for themselves. You don't have to explain that to anyone. In Hungary, hundreds of thousands of families and even millions of people benefit from certain benefits regardless of party affiliation, as you said. We are particularly pleased that the president and group leader of the MSZP, Bertalan Tóth, made use of this constitutional and legal opportunity, but everyone can see now in black and white, all Hungarian families and all Hungarian people that left-wing politicians drink wine and preach water in this as well. In other words, they think differently and act differently, they say that family policy measures are not worth taking into account, it is not worth dealing with, they minimize, dissuade these measures, and they themselves slylyly take these subsidies. I thank you with all due respect for the activity and the dedicated work with which the Hungarian government and the newly erected ministry consistently represent the Hungarian families. I respectfully accept your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-224	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, Speaking of home creation, it is also worth telling you that from 1 January this year the biggest home creation programme of all time has been launched in Hungary. In the framework of the economic re-launch action plan, the VAT on new-built real estate fell from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. If someone uses this with a CSOK, they can pay back this 5% VAT. But to give another example: from 1 January, the state will take over the costs of renovating their existing home from families with at least one child to a maximum of HUF 3 million, and those who do not have the strength to do so will also be able to take advantage of the renovation loan, which is up to HUF 6 million, with a maximum ten-year term and a maximum interest rate of 3 per cent. Moreover, this home creation action plan is not only good for families, but also for businesses, as it helps to preserve jobs, create new ones and help the economy to restart. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[To Máté Kocsis behind István Németh Szilárd and Péter Szijjártó:]] With all due respect, Mr. Máté Kocsis, head of the faction, I'd like to tell you to move at least one chair, because you're in the wrong seat. [[Máté Kocsis: Really! Defiance.]] Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: "How long will the State Department hold its mouth? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Mr Minister, I would like to draw attention to a problem and, preferably, without policy, which affects quite a lot of Hungarian people, and we are even talking about a cross-border problem. And this is nothing but pollution of the Tisza. This phenomenon has existed for many years, otherwise it has not only affected the Tisza, we remember the foaming Raba, which has been raging the moods again these days. We are still waiting for the result, but in connection with the Tisza, the fact that the Tisza and its tributaries bring back the illegal waste from Romania, Ukraine, during the flood, has been a recurring phenomenon for a number of years, and now this has been coupled with heavy metal pollution, which, although the Romanian authorities believe, has already been diluted so much, by the time the Hungarian border reached that it is not a threat to the environment, and I do doubt this matter, and I have a lot of questions about it. Obviously, this is an area in which, I think, we too will provide all the help we need to deliver the appropriate action. However, we are talking about international treaties that regulate this, and we are now standing in the position that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian taxpayers, has already cost HUF 2 billion for this year's pollution, experienced only in the last few months, which appeared in the Tisza. Here, the flood protection and water authorities' experts were really out of control, as they had to clear the river with a high water level, and they fished down tens of tons of waste and nearly a hundred tons of waste from the river, and then came this heavy metal pollution. I'd like to ask you when this is gonna end. So what steps the State Department intends to take to ensure that this trend, which has been going on for years, ends once and for all, and that Hungarian people do not have to pay for what is caused by people living in other countries. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[17.50]]
u2021-02-22-228	Thank you very much. Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-02-22-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that our judgment of value coincides. So it is not fair to pay the price of an offence or indiscipline in another country by the citizens of another country, and it is especially wrong for nature to pay the price of their own indiscipline or violation. We live in the Carpathian Basin, Hungary is a country of rivers, and a large part of the rivers in our territory come from other countries to Hungary, so we are dependent on each other, and many rivers, leaving the territory of Hungary, enter the territory of other countries. I think that we can say that we here in Hungary, with strict respect for and control of all legislation, ensure that rivers leaving Hungary do not cause problems in neighbouring countries, and I think that we have a legitimate expectation of neighbouring countries to do the same. Unfortunately, it has to be seen that in recent years there have been a number of cases in Ukraine and Romania that highlight regulatory errors, shortcomings or failure to comply with the rules or are not complied with by the authorities there. We have therefore personally contacted the authorities of both countries in recent years, and the President of the Republic has also written to the President of Ukraine and to the President of Romania, and we are constantly raising these problems at our level, at ministerial level and at ministerial level. We have offered our neighbours that, if they cannot do it on their own, we will be happy to help, either by proposing to provide this type of support to neighbouring countries or with our own instruments, whether it is a financial or expert tool, to help them prevent this type of problems in neighbouring countries. I would therefore like to assure the Member, Mr President, and all my fellow Members that we keep this issue on the agenda constantly and with emphasis. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-230	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-22-231	In itself, the answer sounded good, but the problem is that we can listen to it here in Parliament every year, and there is actually no significant change. I think that, obviously, diplomacy and this is something that the Minister understands much better than I do, I must be honest with you, because you are the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I am a Member and I have a different field, well, so diplomacy is a sensitive area of action, and we must not take hasty action. But these phenomena have been happening here for years, and it really has to end because the people on the Tisza coast, the people around the Tisza and its tributaries, are the ones who are most exposed to these pollutions. So my question is that you may be going to the European Court of Justice to pay for the damage done to the other party, and perhaps to encourage them not to do so again. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Minister Péter Szijjártó has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-02-22-233	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, We will examine whether it makes sense in this case to appeal to the European Court of Justice with the hope that, if appropriate, even for us, such a procedure can be brought to an effective end. I will inform the Member of this, what the legal opinions here show. From the point of view, perhaps it is better if you allow me, I would like to extend this image, which was kind enough to show us that there is a new government in Romania, in which the DAHR Barna Tánczos has received the environmental wallet. I checked with him in person last Thursday, given that similar problems occurred on Szamos last week. The Minister has told me the substance of the problem, there are practically mining issues and regulatory issues relating to mining activities, on which the Minister promised to act as decisively as possible in order to prevent Hungary from suffering this type of environmental damage from Romania in the future. Ukraine from this point of view, I'm sorry for the expression, maybe it's a tougher nut, so there's our relationship. [[The president's gonna jog his glass.]] overall, they are not positive now, but I can continue to promise you that we will keep this issue on the agenda, not diplomatically, but hard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-234	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member István Simicskó, a representative of the KDNP, the leader of the group, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question: It's an address. In response to the Minister's absence, Mr Szilárd Németh, Deputy Minister, was entitled to answer. I respectfully ask... [[Dr. István Simicskó nodds.]] I don't have to ask, because the head of the faction indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. István Simicskó, Member of the Group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-235	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We all see that our world is in a unique situation that fundamentally rewrites our lives. We are living in a time of pandemic emergency, a huge test of strength for all, including individuals, for people, nations and states. Protecting citizens from all dangers is an important task, an important mission. It is basically a state task to do so, and it is clear that it is a huge test for everyone, for all states, to organise protection, to save and protect the lives of our citizens. Of course, this test of strength depends primarily on the health system, on our doctors, nurses, but because it is about the protection of the country and the protection of citizens, we can see that effort, also on the part of the Hungarian Defence Department, under the direction of the Ministry of Defence, to make every effort to ensure that the health of Hungarian citizens can be protected. We have seen the tasks carried out so far by the Hungarian Defence Office: disinfection of nursing homes, nursing homes, guaranteeing hygiene, the presence of special chemical protection forces, maintaining public order and public security, while also contributing to the protection of our borders. So it is a huge task, and we see that Hungarian citizens clearly see who they can count on: they can count on the Hungarian government, they can count on the state bodies and they can count on the Hungarian soldiers. This is important, because we know that the protection of the country, the protection of our citizens, as Kossuth said, is a daily service. Dear Secretary of State, My question is what other ways the Hungarian Defence Office will try to do its part in Hungary's defence, in order to preserve and protect the health of Hungarian citizens. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2021-02-22-236	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. As I said, we hear the answer from Minister of State Németh, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Team Leader! We are in an easy position because I believe that there is a legal dialogue between us, because in recent times you have been a minister, and I, as chairman of the commission, have also started the work that has served within Parliament to have a country's defence, an army that is capable of carrying out the defence and defence tasks that you have mentioned. Indeed, in recent times, if we look at the governance that has been going on since 2010, it is not only our intention to develop this army, but also in reality, on the basis of our actions. Of course, in the period as Hungary grew stronger and stronger, the last period, the .Zrínyi 2026, and the program of defence and force development, Zrínyi 2026, became the main factor in this. But I could mention the floods in Duna, Tisza, the red mud disaster, of course, the special weather conditions, such as the winter on 15 March 2013, which took place incredibly fast, or the Minister may be extremely familiar with the crisis caused by mass immigration in 2015, which he had to overcome by building a fence. Well, the Hungarian Defence Forces has always been at the disposal of the Hungarian people with their full ability, number, training and new technical tools, which we have also used here in the shadow of the coronal virus or in the fight against the coronal virus epidemic in various areas that you mentioned. From patrol to border protection, through the system of hospital commanders, Hungarians could all experience this, and they can always count on the Hungarian army. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-22-238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the matter of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-239	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Allow me to thank you, and please forward our thanks to the Hungarian Defence Forces from here to Parliament, because we can really count on them, we can count on them in the past, and it is important for them to feel that we are helping their work with a budget and, of course, with a political attitude. In the future, we will continue to give you all the support you need to do this protective, protective work. [[18.00]] Let me draw your attention to one more thing, a historical look back in a few seconds. During the First World War, there were many epidemics, almost if the Spanish flu had come before, thanks to the good Lord, although many died then, but thanks to God, the war was over, and the importance of vaccination, the importance of vaccination, has been raised there. I believe that it is worth learning from history, so it is important that the vaccination also progresses properly on the basis of the vaccination plan, but it is very important that we continue to give all the support, state and government support to state bodies protecting the safety of Hungary and the health of Hungarian people, including the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Once again, thank you very much for your reply and congratulations to our soldiers. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-22-241	Mr. Team Leader! Thank you for your recognition, and I will interpret it for the Hungarian Defence Office. I would also like to confirm that it is not only the physical presence that we experience in hospitals, along the border, on the streets, on the Corridors, in institutions where the defence, with its unique ability, has done more than 1,300 social, health institutions and educational institutions, but also a very important intellectual product, if I may say, will appear here: military thinking, the application of the military procedure, discipline, camaraderie and the added value of the full and full implementation of the oath for Hungarian soldiers. They also set an example for people that in such a situation as the Crown Virus pandemic, in this very difficult emergency, which is legally proclaimed wealth in the country, what skills and qualities are needed in order to fully cope [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And together, we can overcome this threat. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-242	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the foreign minister an immediate question: å How is that? It's an address. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, please.
u2021-02-22-243	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs an interesting question, since a few weeks ago we read that the Minister of Foreign Affairs became the new Minister for Vaccines, so this area was also removed from EMMI, and now three ministries are doing his work instead of EMMI, one of which is the Ministry of Defence, the other is the Ministry of Interior, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing the work of EMMI to an increasing extent, so I would ask, as surprising as it is, but still the Minister, how the Hungarian electorate could get some transparency, clear information about how many of which vaccine the Hungarian government ordered, for example, if the European Union has not ordered all the quotas available to Hungary, why it has not ordered it. In the past, we have heard constantly that financial constraints cannot be limited or there are no such limits, that if it is about health, this is a very correct approach, although perhaps they overachieved it with a few hundred billion forints in respirators. So in Hungarian, I'd like to ask you when you can finally see which vaccine the Ministry of Foreign Affairs acquires what, when, with what schedule. That's one of my questions. The second is that, if I remember correctly, the European Union has opened a quota for six vaccines to the Member States of the European Union and Norway. I would ask that from these vaccines, which are available to Hungary in proportion to the population, the Hungarian government has committed all available vaccine volumes, i.e. available as quotas for Hungary, and if not, why not. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-02-22-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-02-22-245	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. We are currently defending ourselves against the world epidemic, and the lives, health and jobs of the Hungarian people are at stake. Obviously, the vaccine is the only real solution to the global epidemic, so many vaccines should be obtained from safe vaccines and quickly. In the framework of the centralised procurement procedure of the European Union, the Hungarian Government committed all the quantities that proved necessary to enable all Hungarians to be vaccinated, including 6,593,710 of Pfizer-BioNTech's vaccine, 1 million,744,000 of Moderna's vaccine, 6 million,540,000 of AstraZeneca's vaccine, 4 million,360,000 of Janssen's vaccine, and 500 thousand of the CureVac vaccine. To date, a total of 4.45 percent of the committed volume, i.e. 879 115 doses of vaccine, has been received. As it is clear from the fact that the purchase in centralized Brussels is slower and less than the quantity ordered, and this quantity comes more slowly than the European Union had predicted, we have decided to purchase the vaccine from other sources, which is considered safe and effective by Hungarian authorities with the right to do so. Therefore, we have purchased 2 million doses of vaccine from Russia, and I would like to inform you that at these moments, we have arrived at the border between Slovakia and Hungary at 100,000 doses from Russia and we have purchased 5 million doses from China, a total of 7 million from Russian and Chinese sources. This means that it is suitable for three and a half million people to be vaccinated. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We bought a vaccine from the East, so we have such a competitive advantage compared to a country of our own magnitude. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-246	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Attila Mesterházy is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-02-22-247	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Minister, thank you very much for the numbers; I trust that these are the real numbers in the sense that they are the factual numbers that exist today. However, you did not answer one thing, so I would ask the Minister to comment on this, and the second half of my question was precisely that what you listed, roughly 19 million vaccines, now simplifying the EU numbers without Chinese and Russian vaccines, if I added them up quickly here on my paper, I would ask the Minister, and I asked him that we had all our quotas committed, because according to the figures, the European Union is saying that it ordered a dose of over 2 billion, that if we look at this population ratio, I would have a slightly higher number coming out for me. So, in English, did we book all of them? This is only interesting for me, because everyone says that we will also have to give people a booster vaccine, so in Hungarian, we will be faced with this problem not only this year, but also in the coming years, and it may be easier to prepare for this, so that we will not face these difficulties again, but, if appropriate, we can take these vaccines off the shelf. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This is why it is worth bringing the maximum, the one hundred percent, which the European Union's joint procurement will provide to Hungary. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-02-22-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Péter Szijjártó is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-02-22-249	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, We have committed all the quantities necessary for the central procurement of the European Union to inoculate the entire Hungarian population, so there is no shortage here, and the Member can be quite sure, and that if these quantities had been contracted or delivered, there would be no problem at all. But the fact is that we see that companies operating and producing in the European Union have transported more vaccines outside the European Union than to the Member States of the European Union, of course, in proportion to the quantities. That is why it was necessary to look early for other sources of supply and, together with the Chinese and Russian treaties, to guarantee the government's objective of re-launching the economy as soon as possible, and to know as soon as possible that people who are most exposed to the risk of a coronal virus epidemic are protected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-22-250	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the hour of immediate questioning, which brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. [[18.10]] Now, we're going to have the post-op comments. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction, applied for a post-meeting speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-251	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As always, I am talking about the problems of my narrower country, Pécs-Baranya, before the Parliament. Almost exactly a year ago Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced that illegal landfills would be abolished and that the perpetrators would be punished. We can now say, so in February 2021, that the government also failed in this area, and that the representative of the region, Péter Hoppál, is also a Member of Parliament. In December 2019, he caused a huge national scandal by the illegal dumping of tons of waste from a truck on the border between Komló and Manfa in Baranya County. At that time, the unsub was caught, the truck was found, of course the report was filed immediately, and the company from which the waste was dumped was known, and even the authorities knew the owner of the dump site. So we can say that practically all the information was immediately available to the authorities. In comparison, it is February 2021, so 14 months have passed, and there is nothing they could do to transport illegal waste and to account for the unsubs and perpetrators. So we can say that the government failed, that it was completely inadequate to carry out the task that was promised clearly. There are quite amazing conditions in the area, the wind is free to carry garbage, causing huge problems for people living in the area. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The question is why the government is incompetent. Is the legal environment bad? Then why didn't they solve it? Why didn't they tighten the laws? Why wasn't it designed so that the authorities could act on their merits? If the laws are good or the authorities do not have sufficient capacity, we can again speak of the failure of the government to replace these official capacities. So, once again, we can say that it is the serious responsibility of the government, or, by the way, the competent Member of Parliament, that this scandalous situation has not been dealt with in such a short period of time. The question is what other information the authorities would need to act on, how long it takes to solve such an outrageous situation and to free this area, this area, from a shocking pile of waste. I would like to refer to one more question: For many years on the border between Pécs and Cserkút, there has been a huge, illegal used tyre dump, again illegal and again illegal, along the national press. We drew the attention of the authorities to this already in 2019, we reported it quite accurately, but again I will not surprise you by saying that in February 2021, this illegal tyre dump could not be eradicated by the authorities. Then I contacted the Ministry of Innovation and Technology by letter, indicating the problem, and then, in February 2020, a year ago, I received a letter from State Secretary Tamás Schanda in which he said that, as set out in the climate and nature conservation action plan, the elimination of illegal landfills will begin on 1 July 2020 and the establishment of a waste management authority will be responsible for monitoring the sector, searching and punishing landfills, and forcing property owners to transport waste. Once again, the Secretary of State says the creation of a clean, sustainable Hungary, so we act as strictly as possible against environmental damage. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, I can tell you that again in this case, the government spoke, they could not act, they were completely incompetent to comply with their clearly formulated promises, no one was held accountable, the rubber dump is still at the border of Pécs and Cherkút, my complaint was unfortunately rejected, the authorities were powerless, they could not solve the task. So we can tell you that the government used big words, talked about cleaning up the country, eliminating illegal landfills, but basically they couldn't do anything. I can therefore say that, in order to eliminate illegal landfills and to ensure a healthy environment, we also need a change of government. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-22-252	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The Member who has asked to speak after the next agenda is Anita Kőrösi, a better representative: the voice of the countryside! The word is yours, in a five-minute time frame.
u2021-02-22-253	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When we say that we need a complex rural development strategy, we are not talking about the air: we need housing, income, jobs, access to service sectors, and another important pillar for the development of the community. It is a common practice in the democracies of the European Union that tender money, which is intended for civil society organisations, is decided locally, otherwise it is eligible. In Hungary, however, as we are used to in the NER system of national cooperation, this system of applications is hacked, because there is nothing more to be said about using this EU resource at home than to go through the pockets of the fidesz oligarchs. This must be stopped, because it can be seen that this tender system itself, which can be found in the soft part of the TOP applications, is called the CLLD contest in Hungary. The goal is noble, since a local association must be set up, where local NGOs are organised, local businesses are invited as founding members, and local authorities also play a role as founders. So the goal is noble, but the home implementation is so Fidesz-style, and Siófok is one of the school examples. In 2019 there was an unbridled proliferation of this CLLD competition, which has continued ever since. What happened to Siófok in this competition? The well-informed Fideszes formed an association, but they carefully paid attention to inviting friendly NGOs to this association called Siófok Tomorrow, inviting friendly businesses, and even elected the leader of the Fidesz faction from the local government to this association. Thus, this fantastic umbrella organization was formed, which, by the way, dispossessed over the award of up to HUF 100 million annually. Why is that important? Because the person who knows this information is obviously preferred. And that's just the beginning of it all, because the jury was chosen from among themselves, and the associations that applied for it are related to themselves and their circles. This civil application system does not qualify as community development, because it is not due to the fact that in 2019, right in the middle of the municipal elections, they are stuffing themselves. At that time, even in 2018, but since then, there has been a so-called Civil Round Table in Siófok, where representatives of civil society organisations operating and active in the city appear. When I was a deputy mayor, I brought this case, the CLLD contest, to civil society organisations, and they listened with open eyes to what it was, because they didn't hear about it. So you can see that this is such a smoky idea in closed rooms, but it is good, because millions of forints migrated to Fidesz NGOs and businesses. There would be nothing wrong if, for example, Cape Siófok could have benefited from this and they knew where sources of community building and EU funds would migrate. Well, it doesn't take much fantasy to get to where they migrated and what they needed them for in 2019. So when we talk about a rural development strategy, the support of civil society organisations, to decide on this on the ground, is an extremely important and noble goal to be supported, but at least the way and how it raises questions. And since this was the case in Siófok, it is likely to be a fidesz phenomenon, since we have already learned in other cases that there are no two Fidesz. This is what a complex rural development strategy together with community building needs, and to do so, you must give the right support, and the most important thing is that you do not have to steal the funds from the European Union, because the Hungarian people have their place, the Hungarian civil society organisations who really do for the community. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-22-254	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. After the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[18.20]]
u2021-02-22-255	Mr President, Dear House, There is an epidemic emergency, and we can see from the MNB's and analysis companies' statements that households' loans and other debts increased by around HUF 1200 billion by the end of last year. This is the result of a brutal, massive amount of debt, mainly due to over 700 billion dollars in debt due to consumption and other loans. At the same time, we can also see that personal loans could not be paid by citizens, in an understandable way, in a much greater proportion than before the moratorium, because very many people have lost their incomes, and there have been a terrible lack of compensation. We also see that enforcement bans are ongoing in the meantime, so many families have to face eviction after the extraordinary situation. In the meantime, I may not have to stress it, it would be particularly important to compensate for the loss of income from families, because although workers' salaries are mostly lost in a crisis situation, children and successors are often also the victims of this process, and I say that children should not go to bed hungry in Hungary because of such a situation. In the meantime, certain types of family support have been frozen for decades, with 40 percent of the much - mentioned family allowance being evaporated because of inflation over the last ten years. I myself believe in a work-based society. Not in the way Fidesz seduces it, as Fidesz contributes to humiliatingly low wage levels, essentially eviscerating Hungarian workers in several sectors. However, I also believe that in the midst of an epidemiological crisis, as I mentioned, we should not let children go to bed hungry. If anyone, I am also familiar with the abuse of family allowances from the field, so I do not want to increase the bonus unconditionally, but I would also double the amount of this on the family card construction, on a device that is a child protection device, a plastic card that reminds of a SZÉP card, to pay and purchase basic foods, children's articles, thirdly products and services necessary for the spiritual development of the child. This system should then also be followed by inflation, so that child protection devices do not repeatedly evaporate, simply because any government freezes them. My approach is therefore essentially child protection orientation, so I would like the family card to be used to buy basic food, child-rearing articles, to purchase gambling products and services, and not to purchase recreational products, alcohol or cigarettes. It can therefore be seen that, from a child protection approach, it is necessary to double the amount of a frozen family support system to follow inflation and even the current family allowance, but it would be appropriate to pay it on a family card, guaranteeing that these amounts will be used specifically and exclusively for the benefit of children. As a Hungarian lifeguard, I try not only to endure evictions, but I would like to represent the interests of all Hungarian children, which is why I demand that this government make frozen family support arrangements to follow inflation, keep or increase their value year after year, and I stress once again that no child should go to bed hungry in Hungary. Everyone must create the opportunity and climate of prosperity in the homeland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and the independent.]]
u2021-02-22-256	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-22-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I am not looking for a responsible person, but a solution to this slogan and with this approach and attitude I have brought to the walls of Parliament several topics concerning the area of Mátra and Mátra. I deal with this region because I was born there, and I've lived there ever since. I believe that only if you really come from, live there, live there, live there, live there, live there, you can represent an area in an appropriate, dedicated and honest way. A few weeks ago, the deputy mayor of Gyöngyös approached me with a letter addressed not only to me, but also to the Ministry of the Interior, in which he discussed several topics. One is the issue of public safety in the town of Gyöngyös and the other is the transport of Mátra, in the winter months around Kékestő and Mátraháza, and it is safe to say that it is a matter of traffic chaos. I wanted to tell you that I took the time to do it right away, but it wasn't too much trouble, by the way. I also turned to the Ministry of Interior in a letter in which I did not ask them for an answer in writing, but asked that, in a personal consultation, we could discuss what is needed in Gyöngyös in order to ensure proper public safety and what is needed in Mátra for proper transport. Last week, the Secretary of State welcomed me at the Ministry of the Interior, with whom we managed to discuss these issues. First, let me briefly analyse the issue of pearl security. Gyöngyös has been established years ago and the city police institution is under constant development, with an increasing number of people involved in maintaining public safety at an appropriate level. Same as the vigilantes. It is these two groups that, in helping the police work, together with the police, are doing their best to ensure that people's sense of subjective security and overall safety are at the right level. At the same time, it should also be said that the public safety indicators of the city of Gyöngyös can be identified as criminal indicators of a county-righted city. But there's something to be done about that. These people are doing everything in their power to the police, but let us not forget that there is not all the authority and opportunity in the hands of the city police and the vigilante to take action, because there are things that the police have licenses for, the police have privileges. They will help you with your work, and they will continue to help you in the future, and in recent years they have been able to show on numerous occasions that, whether it be thefts, thefts, illegal littering, the detection of wanted persons, until the police arrive... many such examples could be taken. So their work is outstanding. By the way, the work of the police is also outstanding, but it should not be overlooked that their number is below the minimum, so we need a headcount at the Gyöngyös Police Department. We also talked to Mr State Secretary about the fact that there are over a hundred outdoor cameras in the city of Gyöngyös, but not every single piece of it is connected to the police. And there is a part of the city that, unfortunately, is involved in littering, in violation of curfew restrictions, and in a number of things that make other people's lives miserable, so it is necessary not only to connect these cameras, but also to expand them. I have been promised everything, whether in connection with the increase in the number of employees, the more serious control of these offenders and the more serious presence of police and city police and vigilante, Mr. Secretary of State has promised everything. Just as we need to work this out together, we need the permission and effective support of the Pearlians, the population, the police department, the Heves County Police Department and, of course, the National Police Headquarters. In short, the transport of Mátra is still very important. We also need a more serious police presence in order not to create traffic chaos, because this affects not only the people living in Mátra, but also those passing through Mátra, which occurred there in December and January after the snows. The final and long-term solution will be a whole new concept, a bypass road that will relieve the burden of the road that leads through Mátraháza. Until then, the promise from the Ministry of Interior is to help the police. We hope that you will. If there is no change within a short period of time, I will return to the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and the independent.]]
u2021-02-22-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next comment is Mr Ádám Steinmetz, who said: "To be retarded" does not mean to be a loser. We look forward to your statement after the agenda.
u2021-02-22-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, How many of you have thought about why we barely see people with disabilities on the streets? [[18.30]] In Western Europe or the United States, however, we can meet them much more often, even though there are no fewer disabled people at home, but they cannot or do not dare to participate in everyday life as their fellow Western European or American friends. In our country, it is still not part of education, the socialisation process, so that we can naturally live together, empathize with our disabled countrymen. I consider it a historic step, therefore, that in 2017 the National Assembly declared 22 February to be the day of the Hungarian Parasports. In 1970 the first Hungarian Parasports Association and organization, Olivér Halassy's Sport Club, was founded on this very day. And who Oliver Halassy was? He was an example of many of us, who had an amazing success as a swimmer and a water polo player, who had to amputate his feet and win European championships and Olympic championships as a result of an accident at a young age. I always admire those fantastic sportsmen who, living with their disability, set an example on sports grounds, including Dóra Pásztory, Zsolt Vereczkei, and Gyula Gurisatti's success amazed me. Ladies and gentlemen, It is our job to create a legal environment, a set of conditions, a special sports infrastructure so that our disabled countrymen who want to move can regularly play sports. Our task is also to honor parasportsists, which is a positive message for all our disabled citizens. So let us talk about parasports and let it become natural in the system of public education. As the Hungarian Parasports Day proclaims, being disabled does not mean being a loser. As an Olympic champion, I know that hard work can really win. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-22-260	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Steinmetz. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech on the economic policy of the Government and its consequences. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-22-261	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Viktor Orbán stated in his speech in Parliament that the Hungarian economy before the epidemic was one of Europe's most stable, fast growing economies, rising incomes, declining poverty and enormous investment attractiveness. Well, let's see how we're doing on incomes in the 11th year of the Fidesz administration. The standard of living is measured in an international comparison in actual individual consumption per capita. In the European Union, Hungary is only ahead of Croatia and Bulgaria, and this is from the point of view of income in a fragmented society, since the lowest-tenth households own only 3 percent of the total income and the lower 30 percent have 14 percent. Decreasing poverty? According to GKI's study, there are 2 million citizens living in Hungary at or below the minimum level of living. Huge ability to invest? This is true, because this is the basis of the economic policy in Orbán, the supply of cheap and vulnerable labour to large, predominantly multinational companies, if necessary, by installing the labour force that keeps wages down from Ukraine. In Saudi Arabia, Viktor Orbán made this very clear when he encouraged Saudi Arabian investors to come to Hungary to invest, because the Hungarian workforce is surprisingly cheap, and the labour code is flexible. Yeah, well, that was made even more flexible by the fidesz majority at the time with the proper so-called slave law. Orbán also said that the essence of crisis management was to protect jobs:. You know our perception, if there is work, everything is. This was the task of the economic defense action plan. Well, yes, but in the same speech, he tells us what he wants to measure:. The effectiveness of our economy protection can be measured by the fact that according to Eurostat forecasts, only 5.2 percent of the total Hungarian national product will be reduced in 2020. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yes, orbán economic policy can protect GDP in a way that it can, but it cannot preserve quality jobs, because it doesn't want to. The Prime Minister has an offer for this:. Anyone who falls short of the duration of unemployment benefit will still have unlimited public work available to those who do not have a job. Now we honor those who work as public workers. The government appreciates them with it. to give them a net of 57 thousand or 73 thousand forints, depending on their qualifications, in full-time employment. While Viktor Orbán himself signed the declaration on the European Union's social law, the European pillar in Gothenburg in November 2017, and he also agreed and acknowledged: . Employees have the right to a fair wage offering a decent living, and therefore an adequate minimum wage must be provided. And what the Prime Minister has added is that I think that we will win the year 2021-22, and that the investment will remain above 27 per cent of the national total product. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm Yeah, in the Orbán Empire, you have to sail, you have to live, you don't have to invest, you don't have to live. After all, investment is needed to feed the feudal chain and to gain support from large international companies, while emphasising that our economic policy instruments should have been focused on preserving human capital. We reboot the economy, the posters proclaim the government's promise. And Jobbik must ensure that, following the electoral victory of today's opposition, a new economic and social policy is implemented that aims at prosperity and freedom for all. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-22-262	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Balczó. László Horváth, a representative of Fidesz, has applied for a post-meeting speech. Congressman, we're listening.
u2021-02-22-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we agree that it is always a big challenge for Members to work when it is necessary to coordinate in a constituency and to balance economic and community interests. This is not a place where you have either "supplies" or "supplies" or "supplies," but "supplies" or "supplies" or "supplies" or "supplies" or "supplies," and the economy is not in itself, as many community goals can be helped by a well-functioning economy. In particular, the quarrying that we have to talk about along Tarna will also create a number of jobs, and since it provides raw materials for the construction industry and the construction industry, without raw materials, many thousands or tens of thousands of jobs in the construction sector would be meaningless without mining stone. At the same time, it is not possible that the inhabitants of the area and the inhabitants of the area have clearly and for many years only been known to be losers on this kind of space, but can only be placed on the side of the losers. In the immediate vicinity of the Tarna settlements in Heves county, there are two quarrys in Recscan and Kisnan. For nearly 20 years, the stone extracted from the mines has been transported by trucks through 12 settlements, and these 40-ton trucks along the narrow main road along the length of the residential area. Thousands of trucks a year are damaging the quality of life, causing damage to the health of people living here, destroying the property and ruining the roads. The houses lying right next to the road are constantly cracking, and their static state is deteriorating. It is impossible to escape constant noise and dust pollution, and it also deters tourists and guests arriving here, and may be deterred by huge traffic, and obviously the risk of accidents is also significant. The roads built 50-60 years ago simply can't take the load anymore, and people are getting more desperate, let's add, in a completely understandable way. [[18.40]] The only solution to the problem is to put the stone transport on the rail, which can and can be done, as the railway track between Kál-Kápolna-Recsk took place during the end of the 1990s, during the first Orbán government, during a major renovation, a refurbishing of load capacity, specifically so that the stone can be transported from the quarrys by rail. Unfortunately, this line has been closed by the Gyurcsány government, and the re-opening of the line has not been successful since then. However, we know that rail transport in recent years can be an increasingly economical alternative to road transport. On the basis of the annual production of the Kishana quarry, it turns out that 400-500 thousand tons of stone extracted per year can be transported by 20,000 trucks, and since empty vehicles go back to where they came from, we can already talk about 40,000 trucks a year. According to the production and transport data obtained from the quarry, almost one third of the truck traffic through the municipalities along Tarna only passes through the municipalities mentioned above in order to move the cargo to wagons on the loading dock of the railway station in Kali. For several years we have been continuously and persistently coordinating with the leaders of the affected settlements, who represent the injured more than 20,000 people with the authorities, the miners and the representatives of the MÁV, so that the lives of those living along Tarna are not discouraged or threatened by this situation. We have a solution, we already have plans, and we already have agreements to build a new quarry in the area of the abandoned railway station at the border of the city of Verpelét, and all the conditions are now available, and only the source is missing. I appeal respectfully to the government to help and provide resources for this investment in the interests of more than 20,000 people living along Tarna, and otherwise for a better functioning economy. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-02-22-264	Thank you very much, Congressman László Horváth. Erik Fülöp, who is present for the next day's speech, is independent:. The important issue of the consultation on animal protection. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-22-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members,
u2021-02-22-266	Your mike. Is it on? Try it.
u2021-02-22-267	[[He's adjusting his microphone.]] Can you hear it?
u2021-02-22-268	Yeah, that's good. Thank you.
u2021-02-22-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I think that everyone in this House knows that the most important thing in this House is to save people's lives and restore our economy in the middle of the coronal virus pandemic, on the threshold of the third wave. However, I think that there are a lot of important issues on which we, Members, and the government have to address. One of them is animal welfare. I have stressed many times in this beautiful House that we should bring in decades of backwardness together, free of policy in the field of animal protection, completely independent of politics. For us animalists, it took us a few years of persistent struggle to put animal protection at the centre of attention. Of course, I think that because of our persistent animal conservation work, this huge civil society, this animal-friendly Hungarian social environment, could move mountains without any policy. As a success of our own animal protection community, I appreciate that a few months ago the government appointed Péter Ovádi as Minister for Animal Protection, and of course as a huge success, I appreciate that the government is finally dealing with animal protection, and I would like to stress that it also calls for the opinion of the Hungarian society, the animal protection community, by launching an online national consultation. In this national consultation, we can express our views, inter alia, on the need for national neutering, for example, on the promotion of civil society organisations, or on the possibility of banning circus animals, or, for example, on the tightening of penalties for animal torture crimes. I think it is a talkable number that in about two weeks, 200,000 people have completed this consultation and we have expressed our views. I, too, have tried to take a position on this among the first. I am now also encouraging everyone in this room and everywhere to express their views and, of course, to support animal protection by filling in this national consultation. [[Gergely Harvesto: You know this is bullshit!]] However, while a number of joyful issues have been raised in this consultation, I think I should also draw the attention of the government and Parliament to a very large deficiency; that is to say, the issue of animal police has been left out of this consultation. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's right!]] I also stressed many times that in Hungary animal protection in ruins can be built along four pillars, and one of the most important elements of this is the establishment of animal police. It is also a great number that there is a civil organization in Hungary that demands the animal police, and an animal police force for Hungary! They are a civil society organisation in all kinds of online spaces trying to raise their voice, and thanks to their persistent work, more than 30,000 people have signed the online petition in which I would like to establish this organisation specifically. This would also be very important in Hungary today, because, on the one hand, many cases of animal abuse and animal cruelty could be explored by animal police, which could actually improve Hungarian society. On the other hand, this organization could have an extremely effective preventive effect, since we know and know a number of international studies that have clearly shown that animal torturers are likely to turn to our fellow human beings, to the defenseless, and to commit various violent crimes. So we can say that anyone who starts small with animal cruelty will hurt people later. That is why I would ask the Hungarian Government and the Parliament to support any initiative that supports the establishment of an independent organisation of the animal police, as well as in the United States, which represents a looser, almost civilian, field guard organization, or the organization of the animal police that was set up in Romania next to us last year, which falls within the competence of the police, the Ministry of the Interior. I trust that the words of Minister Péter Ovádi, which I heard in the media a few days ago, and according to which in Hungary we will exercise animal protection to the forefront of Europe in five years, will be heard by all Hungarian citizens, and we will be able to support it politically. I ask everyone not to stop halfway, to put the Hungarian animal protection in order, to create the Hungarian animal police, and, of course, to demand further imprisonment for the animal torturers. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-02-22-270	Thank you very much, Congressman Philip Erik. Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech. When will there be order in Kőbánya-Kispest? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-22-271	Dear House, The condition of the Kőbánya-Kispest railway station has long been one of the stains of the capital and one of the things that worries you, depresses citizens living in Kőbánya and Kispest and the thousands of people who land every day pass through this railway station. The fact is that the government promised to tidy up the country already in 2010, but nothing happened in Kőbánya-Kispest after 11 years. Not only is it two weeks, but it wasn't enough time for us to finally get settled at the quarry station in Kispest. Neighbors in the area, travelers often complain that they do not feel safe in and around the station building, violent begging, the raging of small groups is common, but even there are various kinds of crimes, robberies, thefts. Another major problem is the general state of the railway station built in the 1980s. This railway station is not worthy of the capital of a European country, unfortunately it has completely worn out and deteriorated over the past decades. [[18.50]] The condition of the iron structures is inadequate, the passenger comfort is inadequate, but when someone comes in and sees it in rainy weather, he can see that the rain is pouring into the station building at times. It is quite surreal, as one goes back half a century after a few steps from the modern environment reported by the KÖKI shopping mall. A year ago, the MÁV wrote that it promised that the general renovation and repair of the station would begin. A year has passed, but ever since then, the people of Kőbánya and Kispest have been waiting for something to happen, or at least some information about when the renovation starts, when this station building can be renewed, when the right conditions will be there. In view of the numerous requests from the public in this case, I asked the two competent ministries with a written question. I asked the Minister of the Interior when he would finally clean up Kőbánya-Kispest station, what he would do to make the travelers feel safe. And I asked the Minister for National Property when the renovation of this station, how the planning is progressing, the necessary resources were available, and I asked, of course, when, of course, when this renovated, renewed, modern station could be taken over by the travelling public, when the people of Kőbánya, the people of Kispest and everyone whose journey affects this very important transfer point could travel under the right conditions. What do you think they said? I'll tell you. The Minister of State of the Ministry of Interior has informed me that the order of public areas is regular and that the police, on the basis of the assessment of the situation in criminal matters and public security, immediately respond to certain changes affecting public policy in the area. Now, that's true, how they'd react to the changes, because the conditions here have been unacceptable for years, there's no change, there's no response from the police. The Secretary of State of the Minister for National Property was even tighter. On the one hand, he boasted that some minor renovations were made in 2019, including the restroom, which, by the way, needed a lot of space, and a piece of platform was blown off. But when, by the way, the general renovation takes place, when does it even begin, that the money is available, he didn't say anything about it. We only learned that there is a railway development strategy around Budapest, and how good that will be. I must say that this is unacceptable. When a Member does not answer a substantive question, they ignore not only the authority of Parliament, but also the voters who sent us here. When the representatives of the government do not answer a question, they do not come in to respond to a post- Agenda comment, they ignore voters, and this is unacceptable. Therefore, I say and send a message, and of course I will write to them, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior and the Secretary of State for National Property, so that they do not write meaningless answers from behind a desk, come with me to Kőbánya-Kispest, look around and tell the travellers to their eyes [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That everything's okay, and they don't want to do anything. They may then be willing to take action to ensure that there are appropriate conditions at Kőbánya-Kispest train station.
u2021-02-22-272	After the agenda, MEP László Varju, representative of DK, asked for a speech:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-22-273	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I think it is important that I regularly report to you about my constituency, the 11th constituency of Budapest, Újpest and Angyalföld, the most significant events that take place there, in part the consequences of the decisions that are made here with the decision of the majority in favour of the government, and in part that they may learn anything from this. Let's start at the beginning. Before one of the most important or important decisions, let me give you a little historical reflection. On February 17, 1920, an order was carried out to silence him. As a result of this superior command, Béla Somogyi and Béla Bacsó, journalist of Népszava, died, and their bodies were dumped in the Danube at Újpest. A hundred years later, it was invented by the Media Authority in 2020, and on February 17, 2021, it was executed to silence and assassinate the Clubradio. It's a despicable plot to put an end to the remaining freedom of speech. It is a domestic and international protest that demands a change from the government and from all those involved in this preparation of the decision. By the way, this morning, coming from the border of Újpest, the Klubrádió did not speak; it was the statue where we remembered not so long ago. However, we, who are here, are not willing to accept this, and more and more democrats want to support and help this in a variety of ways. We object to closing the club radio. We can give you news in other ways, by the way. News came in the sense that the municipality, the municipality of Újpest, could accept its budget this year. We had to adopt a balance budget, which is about the fact that basically painful decisions had to be taken, because the government's austerity measures have led to the items, many items that affect people, families, and they fall out, and in this sense they will no longer be provided to the citizens of Újpest in the future. For this reason, I believe that the efforts made by the body of representatives and the management of the municipality in order to enable this decision to be made are responsible and primarily for the families of Újpest. The decision of the Constitutional Court, which states that the government cannot take away the tax revenues of the municipalities without compensation, would mean that the basic tasks, the duties to be performed, would be put at risk. Therefore, this may mean that, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, settlements above 25 thousand, including Újpest and Angyalföld, are entitled to compensation from which the government continues to abstain and does not want to make this decision. I trust that they will not decide out of anger and not on a party basis, and that a reasonable decision will be made to improve the hopeless situation of the municipalities today, and the decisions that will follow and help the families of Újpest. The situation of hosts throughout the country and in Újpesten is a general problem. Újpest restaurants and fitness centers have expressed the fact that if they do not receive support, they are essentially living their final days. I spoke personally to those involved in Újpest who said that they had already lived up to their reserves, that they had a few more weeks to function. It further adds that if they do not receive the few wage subsidies they have promised, they will be put in an impossible position. To sum up, I can say that the crisis is also affecting Újpest, but I trust that Tibor Déri and the body of representatives he led will do everything in their power to ensure that they do everything in their power to fulfil the mandatory tasks. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I therefore hope that whether the Constitutional Court's decision or our joint petition leads to results, the situation of the municipalities will be improved. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-02-22-274	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. Anett Bősz, representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title Elvira Major, Érd Industrial Park and the general public of Tarnok. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[19.00]]
u2021-02-22-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about Elvira Major in Érd and the socio-economic challenges surrounding him. Elvira Major is Europe's largest stone fruit gene bank. Not only is it a natural value, but if our country's orchards were damaged for any reason, we would call on Elvira Major. It would be very bad if there were an industrial park in its immediate vicinity, although Érd really needs investors. Another challenge is that the area of the currently designated industrial park would interfere with the tranquility of the residential area of Tarnok. I therefore have a proposal on how we can resolve the situation and harmonise the objectives of the three interest groups. The previous city administration made a big mistake in Érden when Elvira-major designated an industrial park area in its neighbourhood and classified these lands as industrial investment areas. He ignored both professionalism and environmental aspects and the interests of the Tarnok population, and the result is that Érd, although extremely thirsty for investors and local industrialisation tax revenue, unfortunately found himself in a position to offer a less valuable area to investors. András T. Mészáros thus threw several years of the city's life out the window, but with very little attention, I think that this mistake can be restored, and that if we harmonise the objectives of the abovementioned interest groups, then we can have a valuable industrial park area, the tranquility of the Tarnok residents solved and protect the Elvira major. What would that take? I would like to say a very small detour about the wonders of the global granary established in the Spitzberga in 2008. What we want to protect in the Elvira major? Well, exactly what they keep in the Spitzbergers. The coronal virus has taught us that in one moment we can lose what is perhaps the most important thing for us, not only our health, our economic potential, and indeed we are threatened by losing our natural values in one moment. Gene banks, such as Elvira Major, which, as I have already said, is the largest in Europe among stone fruit, can really mean life for us, and not just for the Carpathian Basin, but perhaps for European partners. Unfortunately, the current management has inherited this finished situation that industrial parks can be set up next to the major, but there are a number of areas that are much, much more suitable for this, and I think that, in the event of some openness, we can remedy and correct this. That is why I initiated a consultation at the Ministry of Agriculture that NIPÜF Zrt. the areas purchased by it could be replaced in some way by land that is more valuable to investors, such as those located on roads M6 and 6. This would protect the Elvira Major and protect the Reich. And may I point out that, after speaking to the mayor of Tárnok, I have also learned that even the residents of Tárnok are not united, because if there were to be a wall of noise, I would say theoretically, next to this industrial park, which, as I say, would be in a very bad place, it would certainly happen that the noise barrier of the railway and the noise barrier of the industrial park would be jammed, and in this way, as the Tarnok population said, there would be noise ping-pong over certain residents. So I think that's not why people move to the suburbs, and that's not why they stay away from the noise of the capital or anything. It is therefore very important that the current challenges that Covid has unleashed both in economic and social terms and in the field of health should not be added to the fact that two cities are fighting just because we are looking for investors. And by the way, we are looking for investors, because we all need to have not only the local industrialisation tax revenue, but also the right jobs created locally. Therefore, there are no aspects to confirm the decision of the previous city administration. I trust that the Ministry of Agriculture, as the minister here in this Chamber has been very open to an immediate question, will be open to this harmonisation of targets, and if we succeed, I believe that the natural environment, as well as the economic interest, and the inhabitants of Tarnok, will be open to this harmonisation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Your interests will be served. Thank you for listening.
u2021-02-22-276	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:, Have you gone mad on the government side or are you trying to hide corruption that has never been seen before? It's an address. You have the floor in five minutes.
u2021-02-22-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to admit, as Debrecen, I'm worried about Louis Kósa. The representatives of the government here in this House, even today, say that Lajos Kósa is a victim. But my friend Pityu said that victims like this usually end up in prison or in the psychiatric ward, and not in the government. We don't know, but I'm sure the newspapers and the media have been making a lot of noise from Lajos Kósa's scandals for months. A country is looking forward to the continuation of some bad soap opera, the next day, when another surreal, crazy story of the Kosa family comes out. 'Cause let's face it, Jenő Hidden couldn't write a better story about how a housewife from the bells would waltz in the vice president of the Fidesz, president of the Defense Commission, with some incredible crazy billionaire story. The role of Lajos Kósa's mother, who, as we know now, does not know anything about any transaction, contract and, above all, the signing of documents to a notary. It is shocking that the second most important politician in the governing party travels to Switzerland several times, discussing billions that do not exist there; that the former minister believes, without any doubt or suspicion, that the woman in the bell household is France, and I will even go on: a significant proportion of one of Europe's most important banks will be donated there. Well, let's face it, this is all about some kind of crazy comedy, rather than the responsible attitude of the president of the Defense Committee. Yet the facts prove this, as otherwise, and I'll tell you a secret that Lajos Kósa was named by his former deputy mayor years ago. Mister 20 percent, and this predator name in Debrecen is still the politician's. In fact, I would go further: the kofas in the market say that this is not true for a long time, because it is not 20 percent Lajos Kósa, but Mister 30, because the forint has been inflected since then. But it is a equally steep story about this scandal around the young married Chancellor's Minister, when it turns out that a billion-dollar lot of land is bought by people who have no money for it, at least not in terms of their known living situation. Then, after the transaction is made public, it turns out that the business is likely to fall into a jam, just like the billionaire state bank loan. After all, the simple but interested reader of the foggy and inaccessible stories can tell, please, that here, as in Kósa's case, huge sums of money and billionaires appear, linked to the name of the ruling pro-government politicians, so that the money of the notorious pro-government politicians, according to the form of paper, is certainly not possible. And then the cynical question is, is everyone on the government side really crazy, or is there something else going on? That it's such a big problem, otherwise there's such a shortage of cadres around the government's house that it doesn't matter who else you wouldn't trust with your dog, especially not a country? Is this the standard, the government, the Fidesz standard, for the current government political elite to sit up without any suspicion of the billions of frauds of Gizi Flying women in the bell household? Do you travel abroad with them and sign uncovered gift contracts, even to your own mother, or are you putting her in a very embarrassing situation that almost looks like a forgery of authentic documents? Is that it? But are they really the ones who can be entrusted with the leadership of the most important Defence and Police Committee or ministerial chairs and their leadership? Or it's just appearances, because there's no such thing as acute insanity, the fact that leading government members shouldn't even be released to the market, because the red one here, where's the red one? In a game, will they lose their pants because it's actually a well-prepared but poorly executed money laundering exercise that was made public before the day? That the huge billions of dollars in stories known to everyone actually exist, just wandering from someone else's pocket? That they wanted some sale, gift contract, and some, a few years of patience so far, hidden, ebony-acquired black money from corruption, and they wanted to clean it up? [[19.10]] Is this real? Is that what's behind the crazy stories? We don't know yet, but we'll know soon enough. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-22-278	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. László Varga, representative of the MSZP, also applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-02-22-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It would be very good if at least some of the pro-government Members were here to follow the line of speeches after the agenda, because I think that my opposition colleagues before me have also drawn our attention to very important social problems. I know that we are not talking about the most important genre of Parliament in the case of post- Agenda contributions, but it would certainly be good to get answers from government representatives on important issues, real and professional answers, because we are talking about important social issues. I would like to raise one of these at this late hour, since the European Court of Justice has recently condemned Hungary for air pollution. I have raised this issue here several times over the last five years in Parliament, and the government has been hurtful about most of my concerns. In that judgment of 3 February, the European Court of Justice held that Hungary had infringed EU law, that PMT pollution had regularly and permanently exceeded the EU threshold, and that the Government had not taken appropriate measures to ensure that the excess threshold would last as long as possible. Some research shows that about 13 thousand people die prematurely each year in Hungary due to particulate contamination. This is a huge number, and according to more research, pollution increases the chances of infection with the coronal virus and exacerbates the course of the disease. As a citizen living in Miskolc, and as a man in public life for a long time, as a Member of Parliament, I can't let this be a matter in which we don't move quickly, the government doesn't make a definite move. It is therefore very clear that the problem is acute and very serious. The European Commission spokesperson called this judgment a wake-up call, saying that this judgment should be seen as a wake-up call. As Miskolci, as a Borsodi, I repeat that the valley of Sajó is the most affected area in Hungary in this respect. The names of Putnok, Kazincbarcika, Sajószentpéter and Miskolc are often mentioned in the news as regards serious air pollution data. In Miskolc, wheat space is where there is such a measuring station, and often the worst data is produced by this measuring station, and it is also clear that more than 80 percent of the population is responsible for air pollution. There are many problems with transport, indeed, and the state of cars. Obviously, there is a need for improvement in Community transport in this regard, but the decisive thing is fire. I have also said many times that if we put the poverty map on air pollution maps, it is very clear that poor people often have to heat with almost anything they can. So this problem cannot be put off any longer, the solution to that problem. Since 2010, programmes have slowed down or stopped substantially, both in terms of energy rationalisation, especially in respect of family homes. There are no boiler exchange programs in substance. I think that certain residential properties in Hungary need to be definitely converted to electric heating, heating techniques, especially in the most polluted areas, which solve these problems. The firewood is also expensive, where it is still needed, and we have repeatedly suggested lower VAT rates. No wonder, then, that the problems of air pollution have only deepened in recent years. The researchers at the University of Miskolc have developed a smog scheme. I have also raised the question on several occasions that these innovations should be supported by the government. We didn't get any meaningful answers. I think there is an historic turning point after such a European court ruling. The resources of the European Union's recovery fund and the resources of the next seven-year development cycle should be used in the region to eliminate this air pollution problem, so that our fellow Hungarians living in Sajó Valley can live a quality and healthy life. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-02-22-280	Thank you very much, Congressman. János Bencsik, an independent representative, applied for a post-municipal speech:. Outsourcing higher education combines robbery privatization with a communist planning economy. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-22-281	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to read you a quote. There is no department in this bloody country where the people who can prepare a spiritual change of government would be sitting today. There's no card. There's no radio, there's no TV. None. If anyone wants to understand what's going on in this country over the last ten years, then you should know that the following lines are owned by Viktor Orbán, current Prime Minister, who declared these after the two-thirds majority of left-wing government in 1994. Since then, there's a newspaper, there's a radio, there's a TV channel, and there's gonna be universities soon. In 2010, Fidesz took over a poorly-functioning underfunded higher education that was full of parallels, anomalies and last century operational reflexes. In ten years, they managed to get to the point where the malfunctions remained, but in return they removed even more public funds from higher education, increased political pressure, eliminated scholarship trainings, and practically emptied the student representation powers by crushing the spirit of the universe, deprived young people of the opportunity to finally have a meaningful say in their own training system. Now, after ten years of slow bleeding, the government saw the time to occupy the universities. In addition, under the title of the change of model, in which hardcore SZDSZ tradition rekindled thousands of billion-dollar state assets are transferred to private foundations filled with pro-government politicians and NER businessmen, which, like the Pope's election, end in lifetime appointments only in the event of voluntary resignation or death. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, there are not many left in this room, and you may remember how left-wing governments sold the strategic energy sector, a significant part of it, before 2010. Please tell me how what you're doing is different. Or do you not think, for example, that higher education is also a sector of national strategic importance? I'm asking you very much not to use cynical, knife-opening style as a reference to the fact that, well, the university leadership itself has requested these changes. The Senate voluntarily and singing all these decisions, real estate, educational status, their own intellectual freedom of education and research, because you told them that if they said no, they could easily say good-bye to the HUF 1500-2000 billion rain that the Prime Minister recently announced. Sausages and whips, gingerbread and electric shockers, they're your methods. But what else could we expect from politicians who did the fight against communism themselves socialized in the Kádár system, and who eventually fought so much against communism that they shaped it in their own image, and finally decided that it was more comfortable for them to live up to it than to fight it. [[19.20]] I would very much like to ask you to give me an answer to the question of what kind of foundational operation is where all the costs are in the hands of the state, but every decision is in the hands of political commissaries who don't put a penny in this joint, and no one even chooses them, and they can't be held accountable for their decisions at a later stage, people who dispossess over state and EU funds, but who are not subject to public procurement law, for example. Ladies and gentlemen, Outsourcing higher education, let us say, is nothing more than robbery privatisation, and this is in stark contrast to the ideals of civil Hungary, which is represented by the Civil Reply, which raises conscious citizens, which gives them a say in the operation of their own institution, which makes them interested in improving themselves, contributing to the functioning of this institution, which guarantees the right and the possibility of research and freedom, and which considers these students as partners and also raises them to your critical attitude. We in the Civic Reply movement work for such higher education and such Hungary. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-02-22-282	Thank you, Congressman János Bencsik. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Good evening. Have a good night. Meeting day's closed.
