u2021-11-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 16th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Loyal Dezső notaries will be here to help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin today with speeches before the agenda. Mr Sándor Burány applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title of the Dialogue Group on Current Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-30-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Unfortunately, it is clear that the Fidesz government is interested in two things, one in itself and the other in revenge. It's you trying to drain all the country's resources so that the Oligarchs around Fidesz can make as much money as possible. And he is interested in revenge when he punishes those voters, the settlements and cities of voters where most of them did not vote for the governing parties. We also know about Fidesz that he's always ready to give it to you when he doesn't give it to you. Not only does it give it its own, but it does not give it its own money in the sense that it does not benefit from the public budget, but it does benefit, for example, from the municipalities. For example, when the government decided to relieve the burden on businesses so that they could have more money to raise wages, it did not slightly replace these facilitations from the pockets of the municipalities. So he halved the local business tax, which meant a very serious loss of revenue, especially for large cities. We are talking about a hundred billion items, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, Fidesz has also made sure that he is always thinking about himself, so that his people do not suffer ill at the same time. After all, Fidesz also envisages the municipal system as a kind of feudal system, where the vassals who behave well always receive a brief leash from the central sources; and the independent politicians and cities who do not ask for it are given a short leash. After all, while the government took a hundred billion-dollar item out of the pockets of large cities, it made sure that only four opposition-led municipalities were compensated, all the rest of the compensation money was paid to the vassals already mentioned. Thus, according to the decision, it was arranged in a resolution where the government compensates, where it did not receive a billion dollars in money, Székesfehérvár, Nyíregyháza, Zalaegerszeg, Győr, Kaposvár, Veszprém, Sopron, Debrecen, Kecskemét, Szekszárd, Nagykanizsa and Békéscsaba. [[Károly Kontrat: Budapest!]] But there are only four cities in this list where opposition leadership comes from the will of the electorate. The formula is therefore clear: the government wants the municipalities to adjust. But the municipal system, this House, is not why we created it. We have created it so that locally elected leaders of local citizens can decide on the resources that serve local development. You are implementing an opposite system these days, in these weeks; although you leave the citizens the opportunity to decide on their own city management, but they are reducing the possibilities of their own city management, they are not allowing these cities to decide what resources they can start to develop, because these resources are largely taken away from them so that they can give them to their friends. For those government leaders who behave well in the eyes of the government, and for all government leaders who do not unconditionally support Viktor Orbán's government, they are grounded. Dear House, We have to break up with this system. We need local authorities where not only citizens decide locally, but also elected municipalities are given a meaningful choice, they are not punished, they are not to be held on a tight leash, they can plan revenue and expenditure in the long run, and they cannot be changed every month, as they please. That's why next spring we need to change not just a government, but also a system, create such a new system, restore exactly that old system [[Németh Szilárd István: Yes! The old system must be restored. The council presidents will be here. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Mónika Lamperth!]] In which the local government really meant what that word meant. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-30-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-11-30-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's see what kind of system you want to bring back in the local government. If you'll allow me, I was mayor between 2002 and 2010, so I've seen what the system was like when you were in government and how you were in government. The system was the following: as many tasks as possible for the municipalities, which the State then does not finance. The main example of this was the legal increase in the wages of public service workers working in the municipalities at the expense of a great csinnadratta, and then a single forint was not given to the municipalities, but they said that the municipalities themselves had to produce it, and they had to farm it themselves. They did not finance educational tasks, they did not finance health tasks, they did not finance administrative tasks, they did not finance the Office's costs. What was the result? The result was that the municipalities were forced to take out loans and loans, and by the time we arrived at the 2010 election, we were essentially in a local government bankruptcy situation, and we were standing in front of it. There were municipalities who were already bankrupt, and many municipalities were one step away from becoming completely insolvent. I have one more comment, and this is the currency loan system. Not only was the population driven into foreign currency loans that seemed favourable at the time, but also the municipalities were forced to take credit to carry out their duties. That was your system. The Fidesz government came and took over the entire loan portfolio of the municipal system during the first cycle of 2010-2014. That meant 1,400 billion forints at the time. The municipalities had a clean slate. One task was done, the state took over tasks in the field of education and health, took over the task of county authorities, who were essentially in full bankruptcy, could not really carry out their duties, and then the municipal system became operational again; it became operational, and more and more development and programmes started. [[9.10]] This was primarily supported by EU funds, such as the regional development operational programme, which meant HUF 1200 billion to the municipal system. By the way, I would like to point out that in your time of development, the municipalities had to be given considerable power, which they were able to provide on credit. The operational programme for territorial development lacks self-esteem. In the same way, for the modern city programme, which still represents a county-righted city, it is a continuous program with a huge potential for development, and the city that can live with it is moving forward nicely. Next came the small settlements in the countryside, which received additional benefits from the Hungarian village program, which started in 2019. Today, 250 billion forints a year are allocated to the smaller settlements, the villages, from this program. And here again, I note that it does not require self-esteem, so their development can be implemented by the municipalities without borrowing. Now it is your turn to say that the municipalities, like all other citizens of Hungary, their businesses, their institutions, the state, the institution of the state, must contribute to the cost of defence. That's what the municipalities did. The reduction in the percentage of business tax is largely compensated by the State. The fact that you in some cities, such as the capital, are offended that this might not happen is because your local tax revenues are so significant that they start with a significant advantage. That's the local government situation today. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-4	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Krisztina Hohn, Member of the LMP Group, spoke with a title on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, You must have noticed that I always try to bring here topics like others that I think are worth more attention and which represent the specific interests of some particular social group. This is what I'm doing now, as I tried to draw your attention to the social firewood last time, to the fact that winter is coming, and for those who live from public employment or some form of relief, it's not going to be much for firewood, because the reduction in the costs of the firewood didn't affect the price of the firewood, since it mainly concerned utility bills. That is why it is important to draw attention to it again... although, unfortunately, Tamás Schanda spoke about my commie friends the other day, rather than telling me what the government was planning, I would have preferred that. Although that's an answer, of course. I do not want to joke about this in any way, and it was just a remark on my part that, if possible, I would now like to have a substantive answer to my question as to when the regulation will be in place, how much the wages of the public workers will be, and when. Mr Orbán said at the end of September that now we will have to raise the wages of the public workers. Gergely Gulyás confirmed this on 28 October, saying that he would follow the rise in the minimum wage at some level, as 50 percent of the minimum wage will be the public wage. Allow me to have a very short look back. On 1 January 2014, the net ordinary public employment wage was HUF 50 632, representing 76 percent of the minimum wage. From 2017 to 2020, 54,217, which was only 50,8 percent. Now, in 21, 56,525, which is a very small increase. I know the goal is to encourage people in public employment to work on the labour market and to give money to work. Logical, and I have no problem with that, but the problem is that we have to look at who is in public employment and what health or mental status they are in, because they may not be fit to be in the labour market in their current state, and I know from experience that they are in some of them, unfortunately. If so, they must work in public employment because they may not be able to work on the labour market, or the doctor may find them unfit to work on the labour market. This 50 percent wage, compared to the minimum wage, is extremely small, it cannot be earned. That'll be about 65 thousand forints. Those who have been in this public employment for years and who have been living on this salary have long since had any reserves, have long since been able to touch any extra money. When they buy the firewood, which is between 24 and 30 thousand forints in cubic metres, it certainly raises the question of what they are heating in winter, because if someone buys their firewood from 65 thousand forints, he spends half of his salary on this, and a cubic meter of wood, let's be honest, it is not enough to heat a small house. In the countryside, the most common thing about rural areas is that they heat with firewood or coal, the gas is less typical, because it may not even be able to install gas heating in its house, because it doesn't have that kind of money. So it is very important to consider that this HUF 65 thousand is extremely small; that 17 600 people work in public employment in Borsod County, and more than 18 thousand in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. Even now, there are many people who work for the public, according to September's monthly data, over 86 thousand. So my question is when this regulation will be born. Maybe you don't override your own decision to be not just 50 percent, but, say, 70? When does this change or help the poor not to freeze in their own houses? That's what I'm interested in, and thank you, I don't want to hear about my commie friends right now. Thank you.
u2021-11-30-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat, Minister of State, wishes to reply. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government launched the social firewood programme in 2011, for which it provides a larger amount of resources each year. The size of this is HUF 5 billion in 2021. I would like to inform the honourable Member, 2351 municipalities have submitted valid aid applications, and this is expected to help 180-190 thousand families this year as well. The municipalities benefiting from the aid for 2021 shall allocate the purchased firewood and coal to those in need by 15 February 2022. Local aspects are possible in the allocation process. We trust that this will also help all families to ensure the warmth of home. Otherwise, the government will continue and ensure this programme. As far as public employment is concerned, honourable Member, we have said this on several occasions before, perhaps in the last parliamentary session it was also mentioned that the government's clear goal, and we have been proclaiming this since 2010, and we are also implementing it to give people work instead of aid, is that it is worth working in Hungary. For this reason, the government wants wages to increase as much as possible, which we can primarily promote through tax reductions. We supported over 1 million 660,000 workers with measures in the economic protection action. Domestic unemployment is one of the lowest in the European Union. In recent years, public employment has made a significant contribution to replacing the aid-based society with a work-based society in Hungary. It was important that people felt that it was worthwhile to get up, to go to work, to work, to contribute to achieving the goals of a community; and to achieve them, the public workers also made a significant contribution to their performance. I would like to draw attention to one more aspect: Public employment not only provides a livelihood for the public workers, but also contributes to improving public safety in Hungary. Today we can say that Hungary is one of the safest countries in the European Union, but also in the world, and this is also supported by the system of public employment. [[9.20]] The sources of public employment will also be provided by the government in 2022. I would like to reassure the congresswoman that we are guaranteeing 120 billion forints. The data you said about 86,000 people are currently participating in the public employment program is correct. We hope that more and more people will find their jobs in the market, but those who do not find them will also have the opportunity to make a living, as we continue the public employment programme. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in 2019 the economic recovery programme of the beneficiary municipalities started in 50 settlements and the long-term programme of the catching up settlements in 31 settlements. Both programmes will continue in 2021. Taking all this into account, the remaining public employment budget provides funding for the annual average of 105,000 public workers. But once again, we hope that the share of public workers will continue to decline, as the economy is growing and the performance of the economy is also helped by the increasing number of people living on the market and fewer and fewer people using the possibility of public employment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Public Employment Programme therefore provides temporary employment opportunities by providing the necessary resources, thereby providing livelihoods for all those who have lost their jobs because of the economic crisis and are unable to return to the labour market in a short period of time. We trust that this programme will also contribute to ensuring the livelihood of families, to making individuals feel important and to contributing to the achievement of Community goals and to the support of their families. We trust that the conditions that you have been involved in your comments before the agenda will contribute even more to the success of the public employment programme and that we can work to ensure people's livelihoods instead of aid. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-8	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Oláh, DK Group, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, 134 days ago, we don't know who ordered the purchase of Pegasus software. We don't know who ordered the secret surveillance of civilians, politicians. It's not because of you, it's because of you. It's out of your mind. You'll be quiet, and you won't answer the questions. Four days ago today, it was discovered that László Fat was briefing national security services. For four days, however, we have not known that László Kövér's cape regularly reports from national security services, and that they have been ordered to monitor specific politicians and civilians. We are beginning to understand why László Fat decided to buy snipers and grenade launchers in this House. It seems that Fidesz fellow Members have been caught in fear, afraid of the more than 2 million people who vote for the opposition. That's what you do, and there are a lot of other things to talk about. We would love for László Kövér to go to the metropolitan districts and listen to the problems, because the municipalities are in trouble, the whole country is in trouble. The most painful thing right now is the withdrawal of the trade tax, but you're sitting quietly in the pro-government seats, because you're happy because the Tao is worth 40 billion, and you've got 40 billion on the Felcsút football team, so you think everything's okay. But I suggest you get out of your leather seats and talk to people. You hate Budapest, you hate Budapest, you hate Fidesz and Viktor Orbán. They can't digest their nasty defeat in the previous municipal elections. What else would be the reason why 11.8 billion were taken away in motor vehicle taxes, 38 billion excess solidarity contributions, 2.3 billion taxes on waterworks, 80 billion withdrawal of business tax and 5.1 billion waste tax withdrawals? Wouldn't it have been so much easier if you'd given the 40 billion to the Slippery instead of giving it to the municipalities? The Orbán government does not realize that by taking these funds away from the capital city, the districts, they are not harming Tamás Soproni or Péter Niedermüller in my district, but taking money from the residents there. Because of the abstract money, there is less resources for renovating apartments and condos in the districts, greening, supporting social roads, renovation of small roads. These roads, playgrounds, and aids would not only have been given to the opposition residents, but also to the pro-government people. You're punishing your own voters. The question is, where are the members of the Fidesz Parliament in Budapest, the representatives of the local government. They're either hiding or they're afraid to run for election 2022. They hide and throw in new people, because they could not explain to the people of Budapest why they assisted in bleding and robbing Budapest. According to the Democratic Coalition, there is a reason for the representatives of parliament and local government in Budapest for being ashamed and hiding. After next spring's government change, the new Democratic government will have one of its important tasks in the new... [[German Szilárd István: What?]] Are you interested? I'm telling you. Based on the new government programme, municipalities are considered to be compensated and partners. You keep secrets during the epidemic, you don't give information to the authorities. When they say they take money everywhere, they take money from everyone, it's okay. But why don't you release the necessary data during the plague, Your Honour? They can't answer why they won't help people in quarantine by releasing these data. Enough with the collective guilt! Fidesz understand that Budapest does not want you, Viktor Orbán does not want you. And of course I know they'll come with Gyula Gansperger. With all due respect, I'm asking you not to give the Fidesz Gansperger Gyula an example. I know, I understand he was an accountant for the Fidesz and the Orbán family, maybe he still is. So if you'll answer, please talk about what Fidesz accountant Gyula Gansperger did. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-11-30-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is quite amazing to listen to you, you are in such a state of denial that it seems that in your mind, former socialist prime minister Gordon Bajnai is also a real estate agent of Fidesz. It's not that, Bajnai Gordon is your real estate agent. And yet it is your business that is negotiating the sale of City Hall. If Mayor Gergely Christmas knows about this, the problem is that it's unacceptable if he doesn't know about it, and that's the problem, and that's unacceptable. I would like to ask you to restrain your sharks, who may have been able to circle freely around the Town Hall before 2010, or all of Hungary, but we will not let that happen. This isn't the world anymore, it can't be done. So we're not gonna let you do the same thing you did before 2010, try to steal it, of course, you called it privatisation, which is concrete. So what I'd like to ask you to do is, if you have any influence on that site, you'd rather use that influence in the direction that they're recaptured and try not to let you in, but push it out of the Town Hall area. And by the way, you mentioned municipal issues. If you'll allow me, it's a few things more than a nuance of what you've told me, but I'm trying to correct your accusations with facts. My colleague, State Secretary, spoke in a previous speech about the system that was in place between 2002 and 2010, and let us not mention that you mentioned the system before 90 as a positive example. At that time, it was a system of withdrawal of HUF 1400 billion from the municipalities, of the 8,000 tasks and powers, that the municipalities should have provided 3,500, and that more than a thousand billion forints were withdrawn from the system at the same time. After 2010, we turned this around, broke up with the left-wing policy, and did not give tasks and withdraw money, but took over tasks, helped and took over debts from the municipalities. [[9.30]] More than two thousand municipalities have received debt consolidation of more than 1350 billion, and the established administrative tasks have decreased by nearly 40 percent. By the way, what you claim to have less support for the municipalities is quite simply not true, the Finance Act regulates this in quite detail. Under the 2021 Act, without loan sources, municipalities can manage more than HUF 3280 billion in budget revenue, including more than HUF 915 billion in state aid. This amounts to HUF 179 billion, or 24 percent more than it was in 2020. Similarly, not only the subsidies but also the local government's own revenues increased, which in 2010 was only HUF 443 billion, we are now at around HUF 1000 billion in business tax revenues and other tax revenues. Budapest's situation is stable at the moment, despite all the other complaints by Gergely Christmas. At the end of October 2021, the municipality had HUF 87 billion in cash, HUF 46 billion in sovereign debt, and even under-planned revenues, more revenue coming to Budapest than you expected. In 2020, the support for operation was HUF 88 billion for Budapest, which came from the State and the same amount increased to HUF 111 billion in 2021. We have implemented HUF 2300 billion of development, within the framework of the Budapest Healthy Programme we provide HUF 50 billion, we have committed to the tram extension of Buda, to the development of the Kelenföld node, partly to the development of the lower quay in Pest, the renovation of metro line 3 of 220 billion is entirely through public funding, and we also support the renewal of Lánchíd and Blaha Lujza tér. This is the case, contrary to what you claim. I would like to ask you not to be concerned with this world before 2010, how to carry state and national wealth out of the municipalities, but to govern. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-30-12	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group, spoke on the topic of current issues. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would like to talk about two matters that cannot be left unanswered. One is that László Kövér, the president of the Hungarian Parliament, was the political opponent of Fidesz, who instigated the secret services. There is a record of one of the main public-law dignitaries calling the opposition a national security risk, and he insinuated the secret services to help the Fidesz stay in power with all their might. This means that László Kövér is the opposition and democracy is an undesirable phenomenon in Hungary. That's a statement that László Fat should resign for. The other issue that we need to talk about is that the government of Fidesz has blown up poverty on Hungary. In shops and gas stations, our money is worth less and less every day because of the deterioration of the forint. Let's say that Fidesz, who is about to fail, punishes the Hungarian people with poor Christmases, and everyone feels it in their own pockets. We are now at the point that three quarters of Hungarians live below the EU poverty line, and this outrage was caused by the government of Fidesz. Most of the pensioners are shorthanded. The rate of poverty of pensioners has increased more than three times compared to 2010, while the indicator of the depth of their poverty has almost quadrupled. It's because Fidesz hasn't given pensioners the pension they deserve in 12 years. For 12 years, Fidesz has only included average inflation in the pension increase, not the increase in salaries. As a result, pensions are becoming more and more dependent on wages, because pensioners in shops have to pay the same price as those on pay. Do you know of the pensioners who do the most without? Women. I'm not saying it, I'm saying it's KSH that women over 65 live in poverty four times more than in 2010. It's because women make less money than men, and they have less pension. Retirement women receive an average of HUF 18,000 less benefit than their fellow men. This injustice will accompany Hungarian women for the rest of their lives. Fidesz not only makes the whole country's Christmas poor, but also pensioners, including the whole life and health of retired women, Mr. Secretary of State. We know the Fidesz is preparing to fail. The good news is, we're preparing for a change of government. According to the MSZP, a sure living is due to everyone, so in spring 2022 we will initiate a pension increase to include not only an increase in inflation, but also an increase in salaries, which will increase the pension of all pensioners. We also want every woman to get the same salary for the same job as men, because after a life of work, no one can spare. We will also encourage women's retirement pensions and retirement age to be flexible. If we come to government, it remains unchanged that women who have acquired a period of entitlement of at least 40 years may continue to retire before the age of general age, and we even recommend that women who choose to retire before age be entitled to a widow's pension, because this is not the case now. It is also proposed that the public sector should also have optionally a flexible retirement date, and that doctors, teachers and others working in certain public relations should also be able to work in addition to the payment of their pensions. You can see that the MSZP is preparing concrete measures to assist pensioners in the fall of Fidesz. A sure living is not a donation, but a fundamental right that everyone deserves, even in old age. That's why we work, and that's why Fidesz has to go down. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2021-11-30-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is a series of untruths that you have said, honourable Member, and since you know it, your own speech is a confession that nothing you have said is true. You admitted that by not saying a single number when you were talking about different proportions and different processes. You said that according to the European Union data, there is poverty and the like, and you have not said a single number compared to that which would have supported this. Allow me very simply to deny what you have said, with numbers, namely Eurostat, the EU's numbers. How did the proportion of people living in severe material deprivation in the European Union and in Hungary, honourable Member? Let's watch a decade between 2010 and 2020. You said that, here in Hungary, I believe, poverty has increased fourfold or similar numbers among the elderly. Well, in 2010 the proportion of people living in severe material deprivation in the EU was 8.9 percent, and in a decade it fell to 5.5 percent, about one third, while in Hungary it was not 8.9 percent, as the EU average, but 23.4 percent, at the end of your governance in Hungary. You have led Hungary here by taking away a month's pension from the elderly, by taking away from teachers, doctors, nurses, policemen, all public sector workers their one-month salary by raising the cost of the overhead 15 times and continuing the line, you have brought the proportion of people living in severe material deprivation in Hungary to 23,4 percent, according to the statistics of the Union, honourable Member. This included record unemployment and very low employment. This fell by two thirds under our governance, as Eurostat has shown, to 8.3 percent and from 8.9 to 5.5 in the EU. So there's a one-third drop, and we've had a two-thirds drop in the last few years. Then what are you talking about, honourable Member? In your day, these were extremely high numbers, overwhelmingly high numbers, and now they're much smaller. [[9.40]] But let's look at the elderly, for example, you mentioned the elderly separately: in their case, this fell from 16.6% to 6.6 percent, according to Eurostat statements. The reason you didn't give me any numbers, Congresswoman, is because if you had to quote any numbers, it would have turned out that what you say, what you say, is not true. What you said about poverty is not true; nor is it true what you said before about László Kövér because he said sentences that the Speaker did not say, honourable Member. This shows that your policy means poverty, deprivation for people. They said that women in old age should also be able to benefit from pension opportunities as much as possible. Then why didn't the Women vote for 40 in Parliament? This was the opportunity to vote on the Women's 40. Was he voted? You have not voted for it, Congresswoman, because when it comes to deciding, you do not stand up for the elderly. Or did they vote in favour of the child's home care fee, by raising the social benefits to the minimum wage level for those who are in a very difficult situation at home who care for their sick child? You didn't vote for that either, honourable Member. Did your politics bring women's employment to a record high level in Hungary, or our policy? The reason you didn't give me numbers is because in your time, women's employment was low, and now, in 2021 and in 20, in previous years, we have been able to bring women's employment to a record high level. This means that when they get a pension in old age, they get a much higher pension, and women can retire much better than 40. By having family benefits, some people don't even have to pay personal income tax here in Hungary for the rest of their lives, and some people don't have to pay or pay less, as long as the child is raised, so that there is less social risk for the mothers who have children in Hungary as well. When it comes to action, you have never acted for the poor. Since they have been in government, your policy on poverty is quite simply about obtaining votes; those people are not creating meaningful help or jobs, they are taxing the work. Therefore, people are encouraged to work in a grey or black workplace, and they are sending these people into the world of aid to keep them politically dependent, and this is how you are trying to find or obtain votes from them, honourable Member. That's what you're actually dealing with in your time of government. Those who are in a difficult situation and earn minimum wage cannot count on you either, because you have raised the minimum wage in a snail's tempo, and we have raised the minimum wage, the minimum income of the least earners, that it will now be higher than the average wage at your time from 1 January. This is the difference that the low earners or the needy can see between a left-wing government and a right-wing government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-30-16	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Why does the Government organise migration? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-17	Mr President, Dear House, We just heard another Rétvári saying that this government is trying to make itself look like a kind of right-wing force. Well, now prove yourself in the next few minutes. After all, if you come to Hungary, you cannot take the work of Hungarians. And if we look at labour market trends, we can see exactly that the Government of Hungary does not really help many Hungarian citizens of working age who are not yet working in the primary labour market to acquire qualifications and to get a job in the primary labour market; even in the case of intention, it is not obvious that a long debate on vocational training could be held, but we can see that there are hundreds of thousands of inactive Hungarians in Hungary and jobseekers who are not given the opportunity they deserve. On the other hand, while fighting to make it look like he stands up to migration, the Government of Hungary practically organizes it by bringing in hundreds of thousands of workers to Hungary and, instead of providing our own reproductions, or by attracting Hungarian workers who have been displaced abroad in a mass, imagines Hungary's future based on imports of labour, typically based on third country labour. If we were dealing with a government that thinks in a nation and defends our own interests, as unfortunately we do not, this thought experiment would not have come up. At the same time, in 2016, the National Federation of Employers and Industrialists came up with the fact that around 250 thousand foreign migrant workers may need to be imported, and in addition to the ongoing anti-immigrant campaign, the government seems to have supported this. Obviously, there is a control, because politics wants labour and, where appropriate, it is your economic partner, but the companies involved would, as far as possible, settle this workforce forever, because it is in their interest to have the same qualified workers available in the long term and in a predictable manner. But this contradiction didn't bother you to start organizing these processes. Before the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, there were more than 200,000 foreigners in Hungary. It is certainly worth differentiation who has come to work here, with the intention of settling, who is to work, and who is obviously to move to countries with a higher level of payment, but the process has clearly shown a career, in addition to the fact that it is possible to hold a professional debate on numbers. In 2018 and recently, more than 55,000 residence permits have been issued, most of them for work, and the sweaty explanation the government produces on this issue is quite amazing. They try to cover themselves with the fact that among the workers arriving here are our Hungarian brothers, Hungarians from Transylvania, Hungarians from Transcarpathia, and Hungarians from Transcarpathia. At this point, if a Hungarian worker from any point in the Carpathian Basin wanted to come to work, we would not have any problems in this world, although it would be even closer to our hearts if there was a decent wage job, perspective and opportunity available in the home country, which would guarantee his or her prosperity in the homeland, because then Hungarians might not be as short as they are in decline for the entire Carpathian Basin. We also see that the government has set up a fully conscious strategy at the same time for the organised resettlement of third-world workers. From 2017 onwards, it facilitated organised imports of workers in areas called deficit trades. Here he was typically focused on Ukrainian and Serbian workers, not necessarily Hungarian workers. In terms of shortages, despite my request, I have never received an impact assessment of why you believe there is a shortage, a shortage, an inactive Hungarian citizen who may be able to deal with these problems through his fair re-training. No, you are multi-enterprises, and you have appointed the alleged deficit areas to announce your strategic partners, from which you can then bring in foreign workers very, very easily and in a very large crowd, and base themselves on this. On the other hand, we can see that more than 143 000 job seekers have been entitled to cash benefits in the last month, and 40 percent of job seekers have not received any cash benefits, so we have hundreds of thousands of countrymen who are looking for jobs, who may require decent re-training, and they do not get all of this. On the other hand, you are organizing immigration from Indonesia and exotic regions, now with an even more recent legislative amendment proposal, and we must say that this is completely contrary to the rhetoric of recent years. We therefore call on you to stop the organised resettlement of workers from third countries [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to develop a meaningful programme for displaced persons [[The president's ringing again.]] for Hungarian workers and, most importantly, for all of them, ensure the possibility of prosperity in the homeland...
u2021-11-30-18	Congressman!
u2021-11-30-19	Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-11-30-20	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-11-30-21	[[The sound system isn't working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The opinion or claim by the opposition that the government would not help Hungarians to find work is an exaggeration. Let's look at the facts. When this government took office, unemployment was 12 percent in Hungary. This fell below 4 percent during the epidemic period, and now we have managed to get back to this level... [[Intercoms, among them: No sound! They put a portable microphone in front of the speaker.]]
u2021-11-30-22	I'll count the time, Mr. Secretary. Be kind, go ahead.
u2021-11-30-23	Okay, I'll tell you one more time. So the statement by the opposition parties that the government would have done nothing in order for the Hungarians to find work is new. When this government took office, unemployment was 12 percent, it fell below 4 percent, and it was able to reach this level again, despite the difficulties of the epidemic. This required a tax reduction and enforcement of the principle that Hungarians should live from work instead of aid. The fact is, honourable Member, that since the change of regime, not as many people have worked in Hungary as they do now. In fact, 4.6 million people work and if you look at the number of registered job seekers, [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] , then the summer value of 2020 is 130,000 below this value. And I would also like to tell you that during the epidemic, for example in 2020, we spent 4,000 billion of the HUF 5000 billion mobilised to protect and strengthen the economy. [[9.50]] What I see is that you are not trying for the first time to combine illegal immigration with working for foreigners. I understand this attempt, this has already been tried in 2017 and 18, but the fact remains that the two cannot be washed together, because immigrants, immigrants arriving in Europe, will remain and the migrant workers will return home at the end of their work. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Say you! That's how it starts.]] The numbers you're talking about include workers from all over the country, but they include Japanese companies, for example, engineers, managers, they're more than 500 people. And if you look at the statistics, you will see that foreign citizens legally residing in Hungary are fewer today than in 2010. You are therefore trying to match foreign citizens residing in Hungary who comply with the law with illegal immigrants crossing the green border and using force in many cases. This is wrong. While we are here, let us talk about other aspects of immigration, mass migration, which has a serious and immediate impact on Europe's economy, societies and culture. Just to show the magnitudes, only this year, at the Hungarian border alone 109 thousand illegal border crossings and border crossings were captured by the Hungarian authorities, and this is not a one-time story, because it is estimated that 30,000 people from Afghanistan are moving from Afghanistan to the Balkan countries every day, and now Europe is under three migratory pressures: at the Polish borders, at our borders and at the borders of the southern countries. We are not only talking about combating migration, but we are also acting with a physical border closure and legal protection, because there are many people who, taking advantage of EU rules with holes, are playing to the fact that when they arrive in Europe, they will be distributed among the individual Member States. And look at the declarations, Congressman, say, the German Government programme, which clearly states that they want greater burden sharing between individual Member States. They want to prevent greater burden sharing and even preventing us from turning immigrants back from our borders. I do not know that you are personally convinced of the fight against migration, but nevertheless it is quite clear that the group where you are, the left, will continue to support immigration. Why am I saying this? We already know that DK will be the determining force on the left. And what does the president of DK say? That Hungary would benefit specifically if it accepted immigrants. That's the point. He was protesting against the same border lock. And what does your new Prime Minister candidate say? Technically, the same thing. Péter Márki-Zay says that large numbers of immigration have a positive impact on the economic development of the region. So you're coming and you're going to make this speech while your own Prime Minister candidate [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] it's a completely different point of view. He also says that he is a supporter of integration, the aim is to make Hungarian society more inclusive, and that those who arrive here enjoy themselves will not harm anyone anyway. Before that, you could have asked the police and soldiers on the border. Mr President, if you were a little serious about the fight against migration, you would not have joined the left that protested against the border seal, opposed the one who voted in favour of the quota, then denied this whole thing back home, and generally viewed immigration as a positive one, no matter what the reason for it, and your candidate, Péter Márki-Zay, does not stand out, but strengthens these voices. Because of our position, we've been called stupid, and now they're feeding us fertilizer. We'll keep that in mind, but it's coming off us, because the only thing that matters is that if anyone counts on the security of this country, they can only count on the government and the government. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-24	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr András Aradszki, Member of the KDNP Group, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-30-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the first week of Advent, when we prepare for the birth of the Saviour in spirit, it is hard for one to speak before a noticeable agenda. The events of the past months, the promises of the single left and the candidate of the left-wing prime minister in the 1st district of the county of Pest fill the sober-thinking citizens with concern and fear. They ask, is it true that they will eliminate the benefits of the reduction of the rent, double or triple the price of gas, electricity and canal; it is true that migrants are allowed in without restrictions, it is true that they will lose support for families, increase taxes on individuals. On the basis of the statements that have come to light in recent months, I cannot say that the fear of issues is not justified, because the left would need the money to pay for the foreign networks, the domestic billionaires who would like to see them in power. They want to take this money away from the Hungarian people, just like they did when they were in power. Dear House, In settlements where, thanks to the electoral will, the left came into power, the phenomena that we experienced in the Gyurcsány era, which was replaced in 2010, and left behind, have already been the result of the bankruptcy of the country. It's enough to think about the recently found metropolitan mugs, the people involved, and you can see that the Gyurcsány era has returned in the capital. But the same can be seen in Érden. After the local elections in 2019, the settlements led by the left were among the first things to take control of the local media and ensure good pay for their tried old propagandaists. This example is typical of Érd, where an editor-in-chief was imported from the People's Word in the person of Péter Kövesdi, who had previously become famous for not giving news, but for doing something that had no truth. In fact, at a committee hearing, he presented himself as a party worker. The party cadre with the money of the Érdeks for a salary of,, million, organised a network for the left-wing municipal press to share content, through which the residents of the city are burdened with party propaganda from the locals' tax forints. Last time, for example, in several articles, they described how harmful the reduction of the rent would be, and it would be good for the government to allow for an increase in water and sewer charges. But there were also LGBTQ-sensitizing issues, which have never been done before. However, there has been a level of pre-election. Now the issue of municipally reserved media behaviour can even raise the issue of illicit party financing. In August, local parties were contacted by letter from the Media Centre in Érd. They offered to give the candidates on the left, so-called primary, a 70 percent discount from the ad list prices. It's illegal party funding. In the local press, all left-wing candidates made use of the offered advertising and other paid opportunities. The left-wing party leader even appointed a campaign coordinator, who was responsible for ensuring the candidate's positive appearance in the local press. For a symbolic amount, they served the candidates on the left with multiple-page interviews, studio interviews, special events for the candidates. In this short period of a few weeks, we expect the left-wing candidates to receive an unauthorized grant of millions of HUF from the tax forints of the Érdians. In its communication issued in September this year, the State Audit Office stated that the so-called pre-election is not a choice and that the campaign period set by law is not equal to the pre-election campaign. The parties are obliged to comply fully with the requirements of the party law, the accounting law, even during the pre-election. In order to prevent illicit party financing, the SAO strongly drew the attention of the parties concerned to compliance with the party law in all cases. That's not how it happened in Érden. It was a serious violation of the law that could be done in the primary. From what you've said, the left can do anything for power and money. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Schanda wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is clear from what you have said that the left can't even choose their candidates in a straight and fair way. More and more, when the left feels his death, he begins a mad fake news production and a ruthless campaign of lies. [[10.00]] We remember well that one of the most regrettable examples of this, and perhaps I can also say that it was the most disgusting example when you, honourable Member, were fighting for your life in the fight against the Crown Virus, and the left-wing media, which represented itself as an independent, objective press, asked you, in a shameful and disgusting way, why you did not express yourself in matters of political action. That's the style they bring. We have also had a meeting with Mrs Anett Bősz on the left when she asked for the city's road development on the government, and it turned out that she should rather look around her own house, because her husband's local government is blocking the development by shutting down the work done by the previous government leadership, and has not done anything necessary to continue the development. This is therefore the responsibility of the current mayor of the left. We can see that this is a real Gyurcsányist pace. As the Member said, the left would indeed also eliminate the reduction of the rent. It is no coincidence that Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, is attacking the reduction of the rent and does not want to stop the increase in energy prices. It considers those who want to maintain the reduction of the costs and oppose migration to be dark-fed mushrooms fed with manure. The only reason we're not commenting on this more strongly here is because the C.E.O.'s rigor doesn't allow us to say all the sentences he deserves to say that. Péter Márki-Zay, I quote the form of the reduction of the rent that Viktor Orbán has invented, he does not want to maintain. Cynically, he says that people would rather use less water, gas and electricity, buy smaller cars. He says, yes, you must feel the increase in the energy price. It can also be seen from this that this man supports Brussels' energy price raising plans and constantly demands market price regulation, which would mean that energy costs would rise again in Hungary, including Érden, of course, to the sky again. Péter Márki-Zay also said that he did not support any kind of social component in the petrol price. This means that it does not support or even oppose the official price introduced by the national civilian government and that we help Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. So Péter Márki-Zay would also follow the policy of Gyurcsány in the regulation of the energy price. He's a left-wing politician, just like all the others. And what we know is that on the left, they would raise taxes, introduce new ones, and raise the overhead costs again. All the left wants to do is turn back the wheel of time. But in the same way, Péter Márki-Zay plays on the issue of migration from the score of the left. He says that he wants us to move forward in Hungary, where there are already many people born abroad, in integration. Or he says things that are important for us to be an inclusive, loving society, where these people will become Hungarian at the latest in a generation or two. So he does not see the greatest danger in the mass of migrants, while throughout Europe we see that this method, which Peter Márki-Zay is talking about, does not work, is not successful anywhere. We continue to think that migrants must be stopped, Hungary must be protected, and Europe's external borders must be constantly protected. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-30-28	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Győrffy, Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Fidesz Group, asked to speak before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2021-11-30-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked to speak today on an outrageous subject that has a drastic impact on all domestic farmers and consumers, and this is the evisceration and cornering of domestic agriculture by László Bige and his accomplices. Fertilisers are an input material in agriculture that determines crop results and, in this context, also the price of food. If the price of fertilizer is used to trick people at their convenience, the increase is likely to hit consumers. In recent years, fertilizer prices have increased fourfold. Previously, the fertilizer cost about 80,000 forints per hectare, currently in the order of 250 thousand. If farmers defend themselves against this by using less than justified food, it is not difficult to figure out that the crop will be smaller, less and more expensive. Due to the increase in natural gas, world market prices are already high, and the Hungarian agriculture is also hit by cartels. The extent of the damage to Hungarian citizens and domestic farmers affected by cartels is hardly possible to assess. Fertilizer cartels rocked the entire Hungarian agriculture and the food industry. As is known, the Hungarian Competition Authority imposed a record-size fine of HUF 14.1 billion for cartelisation. According to the GVH's investigation, several domestic operators have for many years obstructed price competition and imports. So did László Bige, who speculated with fertilizer prices, for many years profited impertinently on Hungarian farmers. He must have made billions of forints by severely restricting competition in the fertilizer market. The effects of the infringement could continue to spread to the food market, damaging all Hungarian consumers. In fact, László Bige even threatened farmers that they would only be able to buy for one day, and then he would take the fertilizer abroad. So far, he has played it out, and now he is blackmailing Hungarian farmers, farmers who have constantly ensured the safe supply of food to the Hungarian population during the coronal virus epidemic. But, please, that wasn't enough. László Bige explicitly justifies the increase in the price of fertilizer by increasing the price of gas. Compared to this, although the price of natural gas has been fluctuating in recent weeks, it was definitely lower than at the October summit. Now, compared to that, last week he wanted to push another price increase down the farmers' throats, which also makes it very clear that he is trying to abuse his position as a result of his dominant position in the market. Now, where's all the money that comes from unfair machinations? László Bige, please don't make a big secret of this, and I quote from him: I will give as much money to Péter Márki-Zay as you ask. This is a declaration of strength, by the way, to the Márki-Zay Péter who, as mayor, sent a message to all Hungarian farmers by introducing land taxes. László Bige believes that he can do everything he can to help the left to power, and thus ensure that the political back wind can survive his profitable tricks. Do Hungarian farmers and Hungarian consumers deserve this arrogance? For years, the fertilizer king would give illegal gains from farmers to left-wing politicians. It's not hard to guess, in exchange for helping him with his illegal business. The Chamber of Agriculture and Magos welcome the decision of the GVH, which revealed and punished the fertiliser cartel. I trust that the authorities will continue to act strictly in the future in the event of such violations, and will also act decisively to prevent them. All Hungarians with good feelings regard the Hungarian countryside as the country's base, a valuable resource, and therefore it is not permissible to profit indecently on farmers. My firm position is that in the Hungarian agriculture, we must control the completely outdated fertilizer prices. The major obstacle to all this is that an interest group produces about 60% of the fertilizer used in Hungary and, as has been proven, consistently plays out farmers. This, please, cannot go on like this, we must guarantee the supply of fertilizers to Hungarian farmers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[10.10]]
u2021-11-30-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr. Fazekas... excuse me, Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas wishes to answer. I ask for your understanding, Mr Deputy Minister, but I am also under the influence of President Győrffy himself. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Fellow Members! We must state that for us the Hungarian countryside is the country's base, its precious resource, the backbone of our country. In the government and the Agricultural Ministry, we have always believed in the power of farmers who maintain the countryside. This is why I find it particularly outrageous that László Bige has caused significant damage to both his competitors and to Hungarian customers through his infringement of the Fertiliser King László Bige's behaviour. It has damaged the domestic economy, which is completely unacceptable. It is unacceptable for anyone to harm them, make their work difficult and impossible, and it is intolerable for anyone to profit from them, as it is putting not only farmers, but also the countryside, in a harsh position, but also the entire Hungarian society. László Bige, the Nitrogénművek Zrt. The owner of Hungary has struck a serious blow to Hungarian agriculture, taking advantage of their market situation, artificially increasing the price of fertilizer in addition to the current, already high world market prices. Compared to previous years, fertiliser prices have increased fourfold. While an intensive crop farmer has previously calculated a cost of 50-60-70,000 forints per hectare, now this cost, the cost of fertilizer, exceeds 250 thousand forints. In doing so, not only has he committed market irregularities, but he has also committed an unforgivable ethical misdemeanor, which has harmed all Hungarian customers to gain extra profit. As fertilizer is of major importance in agriculture for field nutrient supply, the effects of the infringement could continue to spread to the food market by increasing the costs of producers, thus damaging all Hungarian consumers. Because of unfair and unethical cartels, for many years I can confirm from practice that in recent years there has been a continuous increase in prices, which had no cause, no understandable explanation, and because of this unfair and unethical cartel, Hungarian farmers have not only paid more for fertilizer for many years, but for all Hungarian people for bread, fruit, milk, vegetables, and basic food. So both farmers and consumers took money out of their pockets for a single purpose, for their own gain. The Ministry of Agriculture welcomes the decision of the Economic Competition Authority and its efforts to eliminate infringements. The penalties imposed are proportionate and do not jeopardise the security of domestic fertiliser supply, while preventing the recurrence of similar events. A record amount of punishment is also an economic retribution, but we can't ignore moral accountability. The left-wing billionaire László Bige has even made a threat to farmers that this year Hungarian farmers can only buy fertilizer on one day, which remains and is sold to foreign customers. Until May, it will not sell any more fertilizer inland, endangering the livelihoods of thousands of families living and working in agriculture. In doing so, László Bige denounced the solidarity between the players of the Hungarian economy and openly threatened the Hungarian farmers. Under no circumstances will we allow this blackmail. The Agricultural Ministry stands firm to ensure that farmers and Hungarian families are not harmed by anyone for their own profit growth, which is in the public interest. I am proud of what we have achieved together with the farmers, and I believe that our achievements and our faith in the future cannot be taken away from us by anyone, nor by László Bige or any other dishonest entrepreneur. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-32	I thank Mr Sándor Farkas for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal to order a national referendum follows in an exceptional procedure. Submission by the Judicial Committee H/17733. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform you that there is a total time frame of 25 minutes for the opening speech, for its further speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2021-11-30-33	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 July 2021, the Government of Hungary, pursuant to Article 8 (1) of the Fundamental Law, on the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. Act 5. For the purposes of certification under §2 of the Act, he submitted five proposed questions for a national referendum to the National Election Committee. The National Election Committee 14/2021. NCB Resolution No 15, 16, 17, 18/2021. With its NCB Resolution No.31, it certified the five national referendum initiatives. In the review procedure against the decisions of the National Election Committee, the Curia shall be appointed by the Committee in accordance with Article 14/2021. Decision NVB No 15, 17 and 18/2021 NCB Resolution No 16/2021 was upheld, while NCB Resolution No 16/2021 was confirmed. NCB Resolution No 1 has been amended. On the illegal decisions of the Curia, Nstv. 11. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the President of the National Election Committee informed the President of the Parliament. That's Nstv. 27. § (1) of the Parliament's decision to order a referendum contains the question put to the referendum and provides for the budget of the referendum. Thus, the proposal contains the four questions put to the referendum, which the Parliament will examine and decide on by a single vote. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Parliament decides on the referendum itself, but the date of the referendum will, of course, remain the seat of the President of the Republic under the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is also important to see that the BSS, the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros Triumvirate, has launched another attack and attacks on our country in recent months, precisely because of the Child Protection Act. The Hungarian Child Protection Act stings their eyes because it does not allow sexual propaganda in kindergartens, schools, televisions or advertising. They complain that what is now stable in the West is not possible here, i.e. they complain that LGBTQ activists cannot go to kindergartens and schools and engage in sexual education there. Not only do they resent it, but they are already threatening it. They're threatening us because they want to introduce the gender. That is why infringement proceedings have been launched against us. We are now, by the way, about the fact that the European Commission is drawing up new communication guidelines, which include banning the term "Christmas" and the use of traditional Christian names. This is total decadence, not only a moral decline, but decay itself. [[10.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The founding fathers of the European Union, Schuman, De Gasperi and Adenauer, said that Europe would be either Christian or not. This last turn seems to be taking place. It is a historical fact that, while Hungary was re-organized by the Easter Fundamental Law of 2011, half of the world, calling itself more advanced, turned the scene of the European spirit into a ruin field, violently distorting national and Christian values. This has resulted in the main ideology of today's world, which calls itself advanced, becoming anti - nationalism and anti - Christianism. Sadly, but the fact that Paul Valéry's words now find only closed ears in the West, the quote reads: "Europe is where Eucleides and Archimedes, Aristotle and Plato, Traianus and Vergilius, Moses and Saint Paul have meaning and influence. All this falls on closed ears because the West has given up everything and has begun to live by a different moral order. This means, in particular, that the West has been through a genuine debauchery by means of the extension of the, and it is now in the process of denying not only its own roots, but also explicitly destroying it. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, the future belongs to those who are able to give meaning and hope to today's generations. It was also a quote: Gaudium et spes 31.3. That is why we must act against the Wraith fires of social development. That is why we must stand up for our children, and therefore we cannot tolerate liberal oppression. Remember, when the pressure on our nation is so strong, only the common will can protect our country. This is why a referendum is needed on the following issues: Are you in favour of having an occupation of sexual orientation in a public education facility for underage children without the consent of the parent? Do you support the promotion of gender conversion treatments for underage children? Do you support the introduction of sexual media content affecting the development of underage children without limitation? Do you support the display of media content for underage children showing non-change? Ladies and Gentlemen, However, there is also a need for a referendum on the following issue: do you support the availability of non-transmutation treatments for underage children? However, the Kuria did not allow this question, because, in the opinion of András Kovács, the judicial council, if the majority of the Hungarian population were to answer no to this question, the right of minors to use certain treatments, in particular the non-transmutation of minors, would be removed, and the fundamental human right of minors would be violated. And I think the right of minors is violated by the Curia forbidding this issue. This is how the government assessed it and filed a complaint against the Curia's decision with the Constitutional Court. We now expect a just decision from the Constitutional Court, and we hope that this fifth question will be brought before the Parliament and, therefore, for a national referendum. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember: Brussels wants to intervene in the lives of Hungarian families in an unprecedented way, while the government is giving parents the right to decide how to raise their children. So we have to stand up for our families, stand up for our values. With a successful referendum, we need to show what Hungary considers valuable. Western Europe must take note of this, because without it, long-term coexistence cannot be imagined. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-30-34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to inform the President that he has a total of 14 minutes for his further comments in the debate and for his closing statement at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán wishes to speak. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Deputy Minister that he can express his position in the debate within a total period of 15 minutes. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-11-30-35	Thank you very much for the word and the information. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary considers the support of families and the protection of children to be of great importance. In this spirit, we have been governing continuously since 2010. There are several approaches to supporting families and protecting children, and the dangers to families and children are unfortunately multifaceted in today's world. On family support, if you will allow it, one sentence: Hungary spends the most in the European Union to support families. In 2022, in proportion to GDP, so in proportion to our economic performance, this amount will be 6.2 percent, which we spent on supporting families, the highest amount taking into account all European countries. However, we must not only turn to families with support, but also protect family values and protect our children from threats. As the Member said in his speech, we are living in a world where you are basically biological, natural, if you like, questioning God-given laws. These are what people try to override, in an uncertain world, they try to strengthen uncertainty in our children and not to use methods of education in which the importance of biological sex, traditional family roles and national thought is sufficiently and with sufficient weight. These phenomena in the Western world must also be dealt with by means of law and by means of constitutionality. Hungary's Fundamental Law also states that in this context it states that marriage is between a man and a woman, the father is a man, the mother is a woman, protects the biological sex and provides the appropriate education for all children. At the same time, it appears that we can set a number of examples from the United States of America, Western countries or even Brussels that the LGBTQ lobbie has also started very violently active propaganda on the sexual education of minors, and encourage our children in Western countries to perform sexual sex conversion surgeries in kindergartens, elementary schools, and to question gender identity in general. [[10.30]] We think that's acceptable. This is a very serious battle based on civilizational values, in which the Government of Hungary believes that we cannot remain silent. I just got back from the United States of America a few weeks ago, and my experience there shows that this is the most important election topic in the United States of America right now. Simple parents, mothers, fathers, teachers stand up and start civilian movements to stop what happens in American schools without their consent, against their will. The liberal-progressive forces there captured the state, the state educational institutions, and use their power to continue this LGBTQ and genderpropaganda in schools without parental consent. We think it's going in a direction that's not acceptable, that's unfortunate. We have to stick to our Jewish-Christian civilization foundations, and if there are such great identity struggles, unfortunately there are the XXI. We must go ahead in these identity struggles, we must listen to the will of the Hungarian people. And I would like to underline this once again, I think that this is the most important thing, that if we look through the Western European countries, we look through the overseas countries, the United States of America, then the social changes that have occurred there, the phenomena that are alarming to us, which we hear in the media reports every day, have happened without asking the people there. So there has not been a democratic Western country that has asked its own citizens to agree with these developments, and agrees that the state is going in these directions. In this sense, unfortunately, the situation is very similar to the issue of illegal migration, where social processes took place for decades, the image of Western European countries and Western European cities has changed so that they have never, on one occasion, been able to express their views within a democratic framework. Hungary proposes the opposite route. We think that if there are such civilisational struggles, there are such identity struggles, and they are also about our families, our children, our future, then we must participate in these struggles and give the Hungarians the right to decide. Hungarian people can determine whether they want to participate in these social experiments or not. Therefore, just as they were able to express their will in a referendum in the fight against illegal migration, the Government of Hungary proposed and proposed that they be able to express their will in a referendum on the question of genderpropaganda. Of course, the result of the referendum will also be binding on the government within a constitutional framework. But we're committed, making our position clear. We think we should say no to these phenomena. We have to say no to LGBTQ propaganda in our schools, which happens without parental consent, through media and NGOs networks, and we will encourage everyone to do so during the referendum campaign. Thank you very much to all constitutional bodies involved in the preparation of the referendum, both in advance and in hindsight. Thank you very much to the Parliament for your support, and I would like to ask you to contribute to ordering a national referendum. If you'll allow me, I'd like to add one more thing to your attention at the end of the resolution. According to the data provided by the operating bodies, the cost of conducting a national referendum is more than HUF 12.5 billion, regardless of the number of questions put to the vote. If the national referendum takes place on the day of the general election of Members of Parliament, then the amount required to conduct the elections of Members of Parliament will only increase by HUF 5.5 billion. Consequently, if we hold the general election of Members of Parliament and the referendum on one day, we can save significant budgetary resources, but, as the Member said in his speech, the government is not in a decisive position in this regard, so let us leave ourselves to the wise decision of the Parliament and the other constitutional bodies and ask for their support. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-30-36	Thank you very much, Mr Vice Minister, for your speech. I would like to inform you that you have a timeframe of 6 minutes for your further speech during the debate. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, Mr President, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2021-11-30-37	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 29 November 2021, H/17733. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by the Committee on the basis of an exceptional procedure, with 20 votes in favour, 2 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, H/17733. Decision No /2 I have received an amendment from Mr János Bencsik, an independent Member. János Bencsik, who tabled the amendment, did not participate in the debate of the amendment before the Legislative Committee. The amendment was not supported by the Judicial Committee proposing a decision, nor by the Government, nor by any supporting representatives in the Commission's detailed debate. On this basis, the Legislative Committee did not support the amendment, but the summary report was adopted by a large majority, thus bringing it to the plenary session of the honourable Parliament for a general debate. Thank you very much for your attention. Please support him. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-30-38	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have a 30-30-minute time frame for the independent representative. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-11-30-39	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Unical, which means asking voters directly in Hungary. This is unique throughout the EU; as Deputy Minister said, in the developed West, in democracies and in democratic states, this has not been the case so far. In Hungary, the direct questioning of voters has been done several times. It was, wasn't it, a series of national consultations, and now it's a referendum. Well, what if it's not democracy? Because Brussels is saying that it is a democracy deficit here in Hungary, while Brussels has the habit of making decisions over people's heads, and most of the time, despite people. So what if it is not a democracy that we are discussing here in Parliament: a referendum? Why is a referendum needed? [[10.40]] For example, people who do not vote for Fidesz or KDNP will be given the opportunity, so opposition voters will be given the opportunity to state their position in the defence of their children next spring, and they will be able to participate in this referendum, which we will probably ask four questions. Do you support the holding of sexual orientation sessions for underage children in a public education facility without the consent of the parent? Do you support the promotion of gender conversion treatments for underage children? Do you support the presentation of sexual media content affecting the development of underage children without limitation? Question number four: do you support the display of media content for underage children showing non-change? So far, we know that these will be the four questions, which we will have the opportunity to ask. The rest will depend on that, which is the fifth question that my fellow Member Imre Vejkey said. One thing we can stay on is that the fifth question cannot be denied the assumption of the first four questions in this election or in a referendum. In our opinion, opposition representatives do not want to expose our children to this LGBTQ propaganda, and we believe that opposition representatives will also consider it, especially those who have children, and will ask this question to support their children without their knowledge, without their consent, to receive such propaganda. I have put this question here because I see that today we will not have the opportunity to ask the views of opposition representatives, as I see it. [[János Bencsik raises his hand.]] Yes, my independent fellow Member is waving; he is not a member of the opposition in this debate, but an independent Member, opposition fellow Members, may protest with their absence; well, I hope this is not about supporting the LGBTQ propaganda. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, We don't want the parents behind their backs, the kindergartens, schools to be sensitive. By the way, every LGBTQ sensation has a common point, and I don't know if you've noticed, and that's the common point of doing it behind parents' backs, parents aren't informed about it. That's a pretty serious question. If we talk about this subject, let me also say that Brussels' behaviour is extremely deceitful. They are well aware that the subject of this Child Protection Act and then this referendum is also a matter of national competence, because education and the education of our children are a national competence, so when they attack us, Hungary, through infringement proceedings, they say not the provisions of the Child Protection Act, but they launch infringement proceedings against us in an economic area, they say that we are hindering the free movement of goods by this law. Wow, the most subtle term is that they're hypocrites and deceitful... I think it's important to tell Brussels here, in this debate, and the LGBTQ propaganda aggressively distributed to those who spread it away from our children. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who thinks this is a bagatell case, which is very far from Hungary, geographically speaking it is very far away, not knocking on our border, but knocking on the door of Hungary, as one of the leading countries of the European Union has recently put LGBTQ propaganda in a government programme, the distribution and financing of gender, the financing of which not all German citizens are likely to be able to express their opinions, but it will be paid from their taxes, funded by genderpropaganda and LGBTQpropaganda, so it is already in the neighbourhood, so we need to be reasonable. You don't have to go to America for this. Ladies and gentlemen, So why do we need this law today and this referendum? The societies of the developed world are helplessly looking at the process, which, based on a plan developed in detail by certain international networks, is trying to hide behind the basic ideas of freedom and identity, slowly and slowly make reasonable people accept that the time for sound thinking is over. I would just like to say here that I was happy to hear a few sentences from the Deputy Minister that citizens in America are waking up, and that they are beginning to find out what is going on with them, and they are trying to do something about it in civil society organisations. That's where we want them to make it, and let's do it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much international media attack or the continuing indignity of the loud minority, in the event of an attack on our borders, as we have done so, we are willing to fight to the end, but we are at the moment constantly besieging the boundaries of our principles and values, which we will not stand by and watch. Even though the leaders of other European countries are burying their heads in the sand and trusting that the disastrous consequences will be lost, as they did during the migration wave in 2016, they are likely to trust the arrival of a security plan created by a higher authority; well, it will be painful for them to realize that they have failed to act in time and that the damage will be great at that time. So today, normality is under constant attack, which we can't prove better than that in the Norwegian post office Christmas commercial Santa Claus was portrayed, well, weirdly, in the context of a kissing scene with a man. I'm asking where this process will end. So at what point will Europe say that it is necessary and timely to intervene to protect our values? I think it was an open provocation. They provoke normal people, and anyone who dares to form a counter-opinion can expect an immediate, vile and global attack. And here's where I tell you, with this Santa business, they're targeting the children. We adults can mostly think responsibly, but when they try to sensitize our children, they do not yet have a defence system, a defense mechanism, especially when their parents do not even know what is going on in a kindergarten or school. Ladies and gentlemen, This is where our world is in 2021 that due to the need to comply with the international PC, we should tolerate silent silence from all kinds of dirty, social normality attacks. For this reason, as has been the case so far, we invite the Hungarian people to support the Hungarian legislative process within the framework of a referendum on a matter of major importance to us, on the issue of establishing the position necessary for the protection of our children. Let us create a set of rules based on the opinion of the real social majority, not on the tumbling of the loud, unintelligent minority. By adopting the proposal before us, the National Assembly may order a referendum on the issues already presented by the rapporteur to protect minor children, which, in our view, may resolve this situation in a satisfactory manner. As has already been the case, we must now give the Hungarian people the right to make a decision, and we must not bow our heads. You know, honourable opposition representatives who are not here, this is what they call democracy, and this must be said again. Honourable opposition representatives who are not present, we hope that you will agree that parents' rights and parents' rights are the responsibility of raising children, especially on sexual matters and on the issue of values. [[10.50]] And here I feel it is important to say once again what my colleague Imre Vejkey and Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán said: stand up for ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2021-11-30-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First thing I need to ask you is, where's the opposition? Where are the representatives of Jobbik, the Gyurcsány Party, the Socialists, the LMP and the Dialogue? Where is the other time about the protection of children so loud, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind? Where are the independent representatives? Where is the opposition, my fellow Members? If someone doesn't see it in the broadcast, the opposition benches, cowardly and sneaky, are completely empty. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, where are the opposition and where are the opposition representatives at a time when in many countries of the European Union it is possible for children to have sex replacement surgery. In Scotland, for example, children of 4 years of age can be made aware of gender change and children of up to 3 years of age in Northern Ireland. Where are the opposition representatives when in Britain at least one sex-change operation is performed daily on a minor child? This summer, Drag Queens in Scotland held a sensitivity camp for boys between 11 and 18 years of age promoting non-change. Where is the opposition when, under the current rules of the British social security system, a British teenager can begin the process of sex conversion from the age of 12 even if none of his parents have agreed to do so? Where are they when there are trans-washers and dressing rooms for children throughout Europe and North America in schools and sports events? Where are they, for example, when the LGBTQ lobby for children in Sweden has increased the number of candidates for non-transmutation surgery by 1500 percent in recent years? We know exactly where they are: they lay low and wait for it, if they were not given, God, they would be able to carry out Brussels' instructions, as Péter Márki-Zay said to the BBC, first thing they would do would be to abolish the Child Protection Act. That is why they are not here, my fellow Members, because they want these propaganda, these ideologies, to get into Hungarian kindergartens, to get into Hungarian schools, to get into the minds of Hungarian children. They're not here because they're waiting for their foreign supporters. They are not here because they know precisely that Brussels' huge attack on us and Hungary after the adoption of the Child Protection Act is not a coincidence, it is a deliberate attack. We see in the case of the newly formed German government, as regards social policy, that they would make sex replacement surgery acceptable from the age of 14 and without parental consent. They're not here because that's what their international allies expect. We need this law, and we need this referendum because we are under huge attack and the future of our children is at stake; because the European Commission demands in a 54-page document that we change the Hungarian child protection rules and the child protection law. This in itself is a harsh intervention into Hungary's sovereignty, because both family law and the laws on children's rights fall within the national competence under the Statute of the European Union, and the Hungarian Parliament, which is democratically elected by the Hungarian people, has the right to decide on this. However, Brussels, ignoring its own rules, attacked Hungary because of the Child Protection Act. They put us under enormous pressure, blackmailing us, threatening us, opening infringement proceedings, and delaying the payment of the money we owe for the Child Protection Act. In this situation, there are two ways: either we give in to Brussels and we cowardly give up on the right issue of child protection, as we believe, or we have to fight to protect our own children. I do not recommend the first version for Hungarian society. The second, however, in order to fight and fight, in order to protect our own children, we need the authority of Hungarian voters to defend and represent our position firmly with the support of millions of Hungarians. I think it should not be stressed that the stakes are huge, because we are talking about the safety and future of our children. Brussels now demands that we allow sexual propaganda into our schools and kindergartens. Brussels wants to take away the right of Hungarian parents to decide on the sexual education of their own children, instead it would entrust the sexual education of children to LGBTQ activists and NGOs. We believe that LGBTQ activists, NGOs, have nothing to do with schools, teenage children and even smaller children, and we believe that parents have the exclusive right to decide on the sexual education and education of their underage children. I think it is outrageous that Brussels wants to turn a bedroom question into a child's room question. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we can see exactly why opposition representatives are not here; why the opposition's joint candidate for Prime Minister, Péter Márki-Zay, said that at the first opportunity, he would abolish the child protection law previously adopted by the Hungarian Parliament, and we can see exactly what the interests are, what the huge forces are when they move, what the huge lobby is that is blackmailing, threatening and putting pressure on us. I propose to ourselves that we not only support this law, not just to have a referendum, but to do so with all our strength, with all our billings, and take every opportunity to protect Hungarian children. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As the key speakers of our opposition fellow Members do not attend the Chamber, they do not participate in the debate, so I close the speech by the lead speaker, and we are at the end of that. The first independent Member to speak will now be given the floor. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik. Here you go.
u2021-11-30-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that my fellow opposition Members are not in the Chamber right now and do not share their views and views on this important issue, if they have an opinion worth sharing. On the one hand, as a father of three, I will also share my private opinion and, of course, as President of the Civil Response movement, my political position with you. I think that what is going on here is a political hack campaign, which has not been experienced in Hungary for a very long time, and that is a rather expensive political hack campaign: only the launch of the referendum will amount to HUF 5.5 billion without the campaign's costs. I would like to make it very clear at the beginning, and I do not agree with most of my opposition fellow Members that the problem is real. I don't think this problem could be solved with a slap in the hand. Indeed, the genderlobbi has wild drivings that represent this type of social engineering, the reorganization of the organic tissues of society in a rather aggressive way, and it must also be stated that in the globalised world, not only goods, persons and services flow freely, but also stupidity. So let us be clear at the very beginning that the problem is real, and in the recent example in Germany, we can see that it is not even a matter of a distance away from us, but of a phenomenon that knocks on the doors of the Eastern European countries. Despite this, or at the same time, I think that the kind of campaign you've just started is both hypocritical and discredited. I'm saying this for three different reasons. The first is that you are completely insensitive, my honourable pro-government colleagues, to all the other real problems that concern our children, which should be addressed and which should be addressed in order to protect children. For example, there is the Covid epidemic, which has caused an unprecedented, worrying trend among schoolchildren and older children: anxiety, depression, suicidal tendencies, hundreds of thousands of children in the last year and a half have had to study in a completely unsustainable situation, live a social life. [[11.00]] But I go further: they do not deal sufficiently with school abuse, school harassment, in particular, they do not deal with modern forms of this, such as cyberbullying or online forms of child sexual harassment that are located outside the school walls. Perhaps a referendum could be held on this as well. The other reason why I claim that this is a discredited and hypocritical campaign is that yesterday, you would have had the opportunity to vote that all of these points, each item declared for the referendum, should not be put into law in six months' time, but in a few weeks' time. I have tabled an amendment which would have meant that all the points in which the government requests the support of the people should already be voted in the autumn legislative term. You would have had the opportunity to support this, it would have been possible to save a referendum, and it would have been possible for the Parliament to decide on these issues instead of a referendum. But you voted against it yesterday. The Legislative Committee did not allow the Parliament to decide on these issues in plenary, because it is not about protecting children that is important to you, but about political gain. We could have saved people a lot of money, saved them a political scam. My fellow Member, Gabriella Selmeczi, said that there was a need for swift, immediate action, but you have now achieved, with this step, that in six months' time there may be something in this matter, rather than the Parliament has already accepted all the motions that appear at the points of this referendum. Thirdly and finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely false to refer to the referendum, the will of the people, because you have ignored this on numerous occasions in the last 12 years. There have been many such divisive cases, and it is not like the present case, since 99.9 percent of Hungarians have no intention of transferring their children and have no intention of listening to lectures about this. There is a clear social support for the issues that you are asking people about. But over the past 12 years, there have been countless points where social support has not been so clear. Should I list them? Nationalisation of private pension funds, the liquidation of housing savings banks, the taking of cafeteria, the slavery law, the grip of the katás entrepreneurs, the HUF 1600 billion loan that has just been taken on. But they didn't ask people how to spend it either. Then they didn't ask him about the 13th month pension, they didn't ask him about Paks II, they didn't ask him about Budapest-Belgrád, and I might add, they didn't ask people about a series of important matters about what they really thought. Nine times, the Fundamental Law has been amended by forgetting eight times what people think. So, please, don't refer to people's opinions, especially in such a clear case. Besides, you have always had a reason: the two-thirds mandate. How many times have we been rubbed in the last few years that the government is acting because they have two-thirds authority to do the people's will, and that's what they've been assigned to the electorate? I do not remember, Minister and honourable Members, that they would have been shy, that they would have been coy when these issues had to be decided. Where is your courage now? Where is your courage in this case? Instead of quick and decisive action, it will be a political spectacle, very expensive, very low quality and uncredited. I left the most serious charge to the end. LGBTQ and Genderlobbi's most notorious ambassador are not the civil society organisations that organise such events called Antal Rogán. Today, there is no louder representative of the genderlobby in Hungary than Antal Rogán. You brought this subject into the school walls. Hundreds of thousands of children and parents in Hungary face this phenomenon for the first time. You're the one who made this the subject. I know that because I have two kids in high school whose parents I am outraged at the need to talk about such a subject within the walls of the school. You've launched a massive billboard campaign that infiltrates, infiltrates the school walls. Such a fuss that all the NGOs in the world could not have achieved what you have achieved in order to talk about this subject. People are terrified of why we have to talk about this. You're the reason we need to talk about this. And Antal Rogán promised me to quote him that there would be a very strong campaign. So you intend to continue this campaign in the coming months. This is your shame, and it will be on your conscience. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-30-44	Dear Parliament, There is now room for further speeches by Members. I ask my fellow Members how they wish to make use of this opportunity [[There's no candidate.]] Since no one has applied for any further speeches... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, Deputy Minister, he's indicating his intention to speak. Deputy Minister, you have the floor in a six-minute time frame.
u2021-11-30-45	Thank you for the floor. I apologise, Mr President, and I also apologize to the Member, because he has run out of time and I still have time, and if I may, I would like to respond to what you have said, even though you will not have the opportunity to answer in this case. Congressman, I'm glad you're not in a state of complete denial. Unfortunately, it is in a state of partial denial, but this is still a better situation than in which other opposition representatives are usually found here in the walls of Parliament. You have acknowledged that the LGBTQ-lobby is strong, it has aggressive drives, they are increasingly significant, they are constantly infiltrating from the western direction, and they have now reached our country and the Central European region. I'm glad we're at least in agreement on that. And then there are points in which you've set up things that don't cover reality. For example, he suggested that we had a poster campaign in the LGBTQ theme. That's just not true. If the National Assembly orders a referendum, I may say a shocking thing to you, then all political forces will continue a poster campaign, because this is the nature of political campaigning, but this is the type of campaign that has not been conducted in Hungary until now. I don't understand and I don't know how to resolve the contradiction that you think it is an important issue that affects Hungarians, this case is constantly infiltrating from the West, but let's not talk about it. I think that's a position, two opposing opinions that cannot be put into a common field. I would like to encourage you to reconsider your statement, because if this is an important issue, then we must talk about it, and if the Parliament decides to order a referendum on this issue, so that there is a referendum on the government's initiative, then we must talk about it, in order to protect our children. He mentioned other threats to our children, such as the Covid epidemic, cyber harassment, victim protection. These are very important matters, I think, and we talk a lot about them within the walls of Parliament. Secretary of State Völner and other colleagues will answer questions on a regular basis. The reason why we are not initiating a referendum on this issue is, for example, that this is not why Hungary is being attacked from Brussels and that is not why they are threatening to retain RRF funds. If the Member follows, and precisely follows international and European developments, then he can see that Hungary's Government has taken its first step, and at the end of spring, at the beginning of the summer, the Child Protection Act served precisely this purpose, which was discussed between Parliament's walls, and the parliamentary majority has adopted the relevant rules; then Brussels, the entire NGO network, the entire liberal media machine, has jumped on all of Hungary, and has made absolutely amazing accusations against Hungary and all those who do not want to see sexual propaganda for children in schools. In response, the government's referendum initiative was launched. We already know this methodology, and so was the fight against illegal migration. [[11.10]] In Hungary, I hope, too, that you, too, are not the subject of debate, but there is a social unity behind the assessment of this matter. But you need to be able to demonstrate this social unity, because in international debates... I say once again, these are not just coffeehouse discourses, but Hungary and the other Central European countries, which are also thinking about this issue, from Brussels, through the institutions of the European Union, by holding back the money that is due to us, by launching various legal procedures. They are not even trying to hide it or try to hide it, but they are not doing too well that these cases have nothing to do with the so-called accusations of the rule of law, the so-called corruption accusations, but it is that Hungary and the Central European region cannot go in any other direction than Western Europe is heading, even if, in our view, it will lead to Europe's suicide in some way. You can't make rules that protect our children, you can't make rules that support the traditional family model, you can't make rules that stop illegal immigration, and you can't make rules that focus not on building a European superstate, but on protecting national sovereignty. We completely disagree with this, and we think that we need to show that in Hungary there is social unity on these issues. In this, we seem to agree: you say that there is social unity, we say that there is social unity, which is why a referendum must be held on this matter. So I would like to ask you to change your opinion and support the resolution that we have before us. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-30-46	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Again, I would like to ask if someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask President Imre Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr President; you have a 14-minute timeframe.
u2021-11-30-47	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán for his statement that the government supports the proposal for a decision to order a national referendum. I would also like to thank Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi for her keynote speech by Fidesz, which was in full harmony with the government as well as the national exposé, and supported the proposal for a decision by Fidesz. I would also like to thank my colleague Mr Lőrinc Nacsa for his statement, who gave the keynote speech on behalf of the KDNP, who also confirmed the importance of child protection and that KDNP will support this resolution proposal. Here comes the problem, ladies and gentlemen, because here and there it is. The opposition representatives, neither the DK fraction, the Jobbik fraction, nor the MSZP, nor the LMP, nor the Dialogue faction, unfortunately, did not delegate any representatives to the horseshoe, to this debate, so they basically hid their opinions under the bush. But, as has been said in today's debate, their opinion is not so far-fetched because they have been allowed to suspect in several of their statements, such as their Prime Minister's candidate, Márki-Zay's statement that they support gender, they are completely in line with our Child Protection Act. The biggest surprise for me was the statement by independent Member János Bencsik. I thought the congressman was here to stand up for the Child Protection Act, to stand up for Fidesz-KDNP's statements of support, but instead we heard that there was a ruse campaign going on here. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think it's not a prank campaign, because the problems we've outlined here are real problems. In the same way, I find what the independent Member said that Antal Rogán would be the main representative of this whole gender in Hungary to be extremely false. I have to reject this, because Minister Antal Rogán is drawing attention to the way in which these gender theories have gone into kindergartens and schools, and how LGBTQ activists are essentially trying to interfere with our children's sex life, sneaking around parents and parents' wishes. That's what it's all about, ladies and gentlemen. So I reject what you said to Minister Antal Rogán. With regard to the referendum, the Member said that yes, here was the amendment of the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Law, and there we did not ask for a referendum, what it is like to ask here now, but we did not ask there. Mr. Congressman, There are excluded subjects for the referendum, such as the Fundamental Law amendment, the constitutional amendment. In what's out of the question, we can't ask the people to give their opinion. However, in questions where we can ask the people to give their opinion, we always ask for their opinion. I believe that this is one of the holidays of democracy when it comes to a referendum, when Parliament can decide to order a national referendum. I'm asking for more support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-30-48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, I'm taking a 12-hour break. The Parliament will continue its work with decisions from 12 a.m. Thank you very much for your attention. (Recess: 11.17-12.05) President: Dr. János Latorcai Tickets: Attila Gelencsér and Dezső Believing)
u2021-11-30-49	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I warmly welcome my fellow Members and all those who are monitoring our meeting. We will resume today's session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the statutory declarations, information materials and the envelope for the declaration of property of the family member will be received by the representative ladies and gentlemen at the meeting of the National Assembly on 29 November, beginning yesterday, and on the sitting of the meeting beginning on 13 December at the reception desk at the entrance of the President of the Chamber, and by the minority advocates at the secretariat of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that the full package needed to make the declaration of assets can be subsequently reached and taken over by the Secretariat of the Committee on immunity. The property declaration form can also be found in the e-courier, in the information and background material. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machines. Dear Parliament, The H/17733 on the ordering of a national referendum follows. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the motion for a resolution will be discussed in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as regards the four issues contained in the proposal for a decision, the Parliament decides separately on the ordering of a national referendum. The full text of the proposal for a decision was already available to my fellow Members on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament to order the national referendum in H/17733. Are you in favour of having an occupation of sexual orientation in a public education facility for minor children without the consent of the parent? on the subject, with the budget under the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament ordered the national referendum on the question by 123 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to order the national referendum in H/17733. Are you in favour of promoting gender conversion treatments for underage children? on the subject, with the budget under the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament ordered the national referendum on the question by 124 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to order the national referendum in H/17733. Are you in favour of presenting sexual media content affecting the development of underage children without limitation? on the subject, with the budget under the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament ordered the national referendum on the question by 125 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to order the national referendum in H/17733. Are you in favour of displaying media content for underage children presenting non-change? on the subject, with the budget under the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament ordered the national referendum on the question by 125 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. [[Representatives of opposition groups so far away will take their seats in the Chamber. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Constant interruptions. Peter James to the ranks of the governing parties: Splash behind your mask!]] My fellow Members who have just arrived will also take their seats. I would also ask you to verify that your voting card has been properly placed in the voting machine. [[James Peter to the ranks of the governing parties: Can you climb up the eaves...? Lőrinc Nacsa: So many people couldn't fit... Robert Zsigó: Don't be nervous. Peter James: There will be a rematch, my friend!]] [[12.10]] I would like to ask my newly arrived fellow Members to take their seats so that we can continue the vote. Thank you very much. It follows that T/17278 on the amendment of certain laws relating to health, health insurance and pharmaceutical matters and related legislation for legal harmonisation and other purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17278/6 and T/17278/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Rig Lajos. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 119 votes against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/17278/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, no votes against, with 48 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17278/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 122 votes in favour, no votes against, with 47 abstentions. We now have T/17318 on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2022. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17318. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 122 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. It follows that T/17434 on the amendment of certain laws on criminal matters necessary for the protection of animals will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17434/7 of the legislative committee's proposal to amend the text, and T/17434/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Gergely Kálló. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 119 votes against and 10 abstentions. Since the Parliament, my fellow Members, has not maintained the amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/17434/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 168 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17434/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 168 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, I/17677. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 119 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, I/1766. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 49 votes against and one abstention. Member Gergely Arató, representative of DK, I/17663. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 50 votes against and two abstentions. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP, I/17673. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 49 votes against and one abstention. [[12.20]] Member Tamás Mellar, representative of the Dialogue, I/17674. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 48 against, with two abstentions. Representative Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, I/17675. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 48 against and 1 abstention. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, I/17422. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 48 against, with two abstentions. Member László Varju, representative of DK, I/17662. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 48 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Recess: 12.22-12.25) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Attila Gelencsér)
u2021-11-30-50	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. A general debate between Hungary and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the publication of the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments until closure. The government referral is T/4073. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Minister of State, Deputy Minister, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill before you adds a new element to the legislative framework for the development of economic relations between Hungary and the Islamic Republic of Iran. The aim of the agreement to be announced is to promote bilateral Hungarian and Iranian economic relations, including investment relations, and to make the investment environment safer and more favourable. The agreement concerns investments made by investors from both countries in each other's territory. From a Hungarian point of view, the agreement serves the protection and legal certainty of Hungarian investors established in Iran on a reciprocal basis, which is of particular importance in the Middle East region with a number of market opportunities. The external economic strategic objective of Hungary's Government is to encourage foreign investments by Hungarian companies and to balance the profits generated there, i.e. abroad, with the profits exported by foreign investors. The implementation of this strategy is based on the establishment of bilateral investment protection agreements. Since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009, foreign direct investment has been part of the common commercial policy within the European Union. This means that the Member States of the European Union can conclude an investment protection agreement with other countries if the European Commission has also issued an approval mandate under the necessary national authorisation. In the case of the agreement between Hungary and the Islamic Republic of Iran, this was done, and the agreement was concluded on the basis of the European Union's guidance and approval. Dear House, One of the main purposes of the agreement is to provide investors in both countries with a legal guarantee framework to protect their investments. In relation to Iran, several domestic companies will be informed of future investment intentions. It is of particular importance for investors to ensure fair and impartial settlement of any disputes that may arise against the State. Thanks to this agreement, Hungarian investors and their investments can expect international legal protection when resolving any disputes. The agreement complies with the content requirements set by international standards. The agreement contains a number of guarantee elements for companies investing abroad, including the principle of non-discrimination and the principle of maximum benefit and national treatment. This agreement also provides a way to settle disputes between the investor and the State. This provision constitutes the main guarantee for investors and therefore forms part of any investment protection agreement. That provision also provides protection in cases where the provisions of the investment protection agreement cannot be implemented directly in a given country before the partner's domestic courts. Dear Parliament, We expect the conclusion of the agreement to help the development of economic and investment relations between Hungary and Iran by protecting investors. I would ask the honourable Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-30-52	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us creates a legal framework for investment activities between Hungary and the Islamic Republic of Iran to take place within a regulated and secure framework. The text of the bill states that both parties create favourable conditions, in line, of course, with their laws and legislation, which is attractive from an investment point of view to the other Contracting Party. The Parties shall provide mutually fair and equitable treatment and full protection for the investments made in their territories. [[12.30]] In 2015, Mihály Varga, then Minister of National Economy, signed a pre-legislative letter of intent during a visit to Tehran led by the Prime Minister. Following this, several forward-looking agreements were reached at the first meeting of the Joint Economic Commission for Hungary-Iran 2017 and, as can be seen in the bill, the investment protection agreement was signed by the Hungarian and Iranian parties in Tehran on 4 December 2017. Unfortunately, Iran is currently suffering from unemployment and underemployment. The gap left by foreign companies that have exited in the past may be somewhat fulfilled by agreements such as those currently under discussion. As far as Iran is concerned, SMEs are in a competitive position from the point of view of investment. Tax reduction opportunities are also widely available for foreigners. This bill also provides for the application of the principle of national treatment and the most favourable treatment, clarifies the practice of transferring income generated and outlines the way in which disputes between the State of Investor are settled. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-30-55	Thank you very much for the opportunity to exchange. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Some thoughts on the content summary. It is clear that the parties have expressed their views on encouraging investment in each other's territory, which is obviously the most important thing now, and also that it is possible to do so in a favourable business environment and, of course, to ensure full security for investment in the other party's territory. The provisions of this Agreement shall not affect the right of the Parties to take regulatory measures in areas such as public health, safety, the protection of the environment or, for example, consumer protection. My fellow Member mentioned the principle of non-discrimination, the principles of national and maximum preferential treatment. An exception to the latter is the advantages granted by one of the Contracting Parties to the third country in relation to its participation in the customs union, the free trade zone, in the financial union, and I also think it is very important that they undertake to compensate each other for the losses caused by the war, the state of emergency and the uprising. It is clear that there is also a ban on expropriation, which means that they cannot nationalise, acquire or subject each other's investments to similar measures and fix the freedom to transfer income from the investment, the questions of the transfer of rights related to the investment, the way in which the disputes arising in connection with the investment are settled, the obligation to inform about legislative changes affecting the investments and international conventions. It is also clear that it will also determine how to resolve disputes between investors in the Contracting States. I would also like to make some substantive comments. Hungary seems to want to strengthen its relations with a number of eastern countries. In November 2020, the Kyrgyz Republic and in February 2021 Kosovo were incorporated into law with a very similar agreement, which also transposed the agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments into the domestic legal order. The aim of this proposal is to develop and promote economic relations between the two countries, in particular by making the conditions for investment activities in each other more favourable and by making investment more secure. The main point of the agreement on which the motion is based is to provide investors in both countries with legal guarantee elements to protect their investments, which will help secure the safer operation of businesses in the territory of each State. Similar agreements generally do not conflict with the interests of the domestic economy, so the Hungarian Socialist Party usually votes in favour of these initiatives. However, this current proposal may be of greater interest because Iran has often been at the centre of international interest in recent years. Since 2006, the UN Security Council has adopted several resolutions calling on Iran to suspend uranium enrichment for nuclear weapons. The EU has imposed a number of economic and financial sanctions on Iran, including restrictions on trade in a number of products, restrictions on the financial sector and restrictions on entry of persons and entities, freezing their assets. After verification by the International Atomic Energy Agency confirmed that Iran had implemented nuclear-related measures, most EU and UN sanctions were lifted on 16 January 2016. The EU has lifted all economic and financial sanctions with nuclear implications and, since the entry into force of 2016, the EU has lifted most of the economic and financial sanctions affecting Iran. The European Commission is therefore taking steps to promote legitimate trade with Iran and to support companies that would engage in business with Iranian partners in compliance with EU sanctions. At the same time, the anti-money laundering task force is a multi-level list of countries identified as risky for money laundering and terrorist financing each year, with only two countries, North Korea and Iran in the first category in 2021. The relationship between the United States and Iran remains tense. The US Government announced in September 2020 that it had unilaterally reinstated all sanctions against Iran. In November 2021, US Foreign Minister Antony Blinken no longer ruled out the possibility that the United States would use military force to stop the Iranian nuclear programme. In any case, I believe that we are fulfilling the request of the Secretary of State and we are in favour of the proposal.
u2021-11-30-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-30-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, One of the main objectives of this agreement, as my fellow Members have pointed out, is the development and promotion of economic relations. I would also like to highlight the legal framework, from which the investment protection agreement highlights important aspects, provides for fair and equitable treatment, and it is indeed an essential provision of the agreement to provide for the application of the principle of national treatment and the highest benefit. However, one of the main purposes of the agreement, which was also presented by the Deputy Minister, was to provide investors in both countries with legal guarantees to protect their investments. In the territory of the Islamic Republic of Iran, some domestic farmers are informed of the intention to invest later, and it is particularly important for investors to resolve disputes, even against the State, with fair, impartial arbitration. This is why this agreement is important, because it provides guarantees, among other things, and is therefore supported by KDNP. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is an agreement before us that is very important in many respects, and if we look at the historical roots of the relationship between Hungary and Iran and Persia, the predecessor of the law, we can say that we have a special relationship, since there is a relationship between Hungary and Iran for at least a thousand years. [[12.40]] Shortly after the conquest, the jasik appeared here, in Hungary, following the period of the establishment of the state. Jászság is a group of people of Iranian language and origin, who have indeed brought with them the culture that developed in the eastern part, in Central Asia or in the eastern part of the Middle East, thus creating the opportunity for cooperation between the two peoples. The appearance of the Jász was only the first step, because then, when the Turks appeared in Europe, we must highlight the name of the great Turkish Beater János Hunyadi, who was there looking for allies at the eastern end of the Ottoman Empire in Persia, and continued the same policy during his reign as his son, King Matthias. At the time, János Hunyadi attempted to push the Turks out of Europe and tried to form an alliance with Iran and the Eastern peoples, who were also threatened by Turkish conquest. So the agreements can already be traced back to this period, and we can see that in reality there is more than 500 years of history of agreement between Hungary and Iran. When you look at it today, it's the 21st. The importance of trade relations, the expansion of a country's economy and the need for Eastern relations, obviously we should not forget Iran. When the Jobbik Movement for Hungary entered the National Assembly, it had already announced the Eastern opening policy, which was to seek closer economic cooperation with Asian countries, small tigers, Central Asian countries and Middle Eastern countries. We are very pleased that later, after 2010, the government made this an official policy and announced the Eastern opening policy. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has always been a partner in this regard. If we look at why Iran is important, we need to see that Iran is a very large state, because its territory is almost 20 times as large as Hungary's, although its population density is not nearly as large, its population is only eight times the Hungarian population, but we also need to see that Iran has experienced a very dynamic population development in recent years. In 1960, it had only 22 million inhabitants, and then 20 years later it almost doubled, by 1980 it had 39 million inhabitants, and now we have reached the point of overcoming 80 million people, so that in virtually sixty years the population of Iran has increased more than four times. Obviously, this is also the economic strength of the country, although we are talking about a state that is composed of several ethnic groups, since much more than half of the population are Persian, but in a very large percentage, 15-20 percent and 10 percent of the Kurds live there, while their religion is virtually one hundred percent, 99.4 percent Islamic, and their state form is also theocratic republic. VI B.C. Since the first century we have been talking about a united state, and we have been using the term Persia. Even the Greeks named him Persia. Since then, practically until the time of Ayatollah Khomeini and the Iranian Islamic Revolution, they have been called that, since then practically the term Islamic Republic of Iran is official. We are talking about a country in the agricultural sector, but today we are talking about Article XX. At the end of the 20th century and at the end of the 21st century At the beginning of the century, our most important energy source is oil and natural gas, and we need to know that Iran has the second largest supply of oil and natural gas in the world. In view of this, Hungary must, in any case, have very good economic relations with such a state. Of course, we can see that Iran does not supply the world with oil and natural gas. The reason for this is that the extraction technologies of both oil and natural gas production are very underdeveloped, and it is also problematic to transfer natural gas in liquefied form to the target countries. For Iran, for example, the primary target country for gas supply is India, which is a huge consumer, but at almost the same level it appears in Europe and, obviously, we also need to talk about Hungary within Europe. When we talk about the problem of gas supply in Europe, and if gas taps are blocked here or there, what alternative solutions we need to look for, we need to realise that, in the future, even liquefied petroleum from Iran can be a very important source of energy for Hungary, as well as oil. This is why it is important to protect our economic relations properly, even if the Iranian nuclear programme is not liked by everyone in the world today, it is not considered appropriate, for example, that Iranian oil and gas extraction has been largely affected by boycotting both the United States of America and countless other countries in the world. Therefore, the most modern technologies could not be used, which is why, among other things, they are lagging behind. The policy of the United States against Iran is still problematic in terms of the nuclear programme. But we trust that sooner or later these problems will be resolved, and that Hungarian-Iranian economic relations will also be an ever-increasing development in the future. I would like to highlight one more thing, which is why this agreement is important and has great potential in the future. I have already mentioned here several times that for the Middle Eastern and Middle Eastern countries, I think there is a great deal of interest in the eyes of Hungarian citizens. Not only because a millennia of living together in Jász-Hungarian makes Hungarians curious about discovering the original birthplace of the Jász, but the emergence of Oriental culture at all aroused interest in Hungarian people, and very many would like to see the millennia of culture that is also found in Iran. It is no coincidence that a great many sights of world heritage are present today in the territory of the Islamic Republic of Iran. I think that a developing economic relationship will sooner or later also start tourism more and more between the two countries, because I think that such attractions, which can be seen in Iran, should be seen by many people and that we should see the millennia of heritage left by Iranian culture. This arouses great interest from the Hungarian people. In my opinion, there is great potential in Iran-Hungarian relations, and therefore Jobbik Hungary's Movement supports the publication of the agreement. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-11-30-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is now room for further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I considered it important to appreciate and appreciate in some sentences the fact that Hungarian foreign affairs and the Hungarian foreign economy are all over the world, and I believe that this direction is the only right direction. A small and, I must say, a country with a vulnerable economy, like Hungary, must open up in all directions, and this is an excellent example. When we develop great relationships with the sunnite part of the Islamic world, I consider it at least so important that the Islamic world also has a relationship with the other Shiite world, which, I believe, sooner or later, is about equal weight within the world. That may not be the most important thing for us. The most important thing is that our openness creates opportunities without which we would be committed unilaterally, in one direction and only in one direction. I particularly sense this from the Hungarian countryside. When every year, again and again, there is the possibility that the goods produced can be sold safely and at an appropriate price, that we are able to create the conditions that are absolutely necessary for development, I believe that only an open foreign economy of a kind that has been carried out by the State can lead to this. I find it particularly unfair when there are attacks on the Hungarian government and, in particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, which aims at something that seems unnecessary to appear in the most diverse parts of the world. It may not be successful everywhere, it may not be successful everywhere, but a good part of these agreements are beneficial to the Hungarian economy, which I believe cannot be applied elsewhere. I think that this policy is the only right direction, and that unworthy attacks are worth repelling. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.50]]
u2021-11-30-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I now ask Deputy Minister Levente Magyar to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, please, you have the floor.
u2021-11-30-63	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to thank you briefly for the constructive contributions. As I understand it, there has been no criticism of the agreement that needs a meaningful reflection. Thank you for understanding that it is in Hungary's eminent interest, as Mr Turi-Kovács has just highlighted, to maintain balanced relations that underpin trade and mutual investment with all the major economies in the world. Whatever culture and civilization these countries represent, we look at where Hungarian products can be sold, where we can expect valuable investments, and those Hungarian companies that are now present in an increasing number of countries that are able to invest abroad, in which countries we can, by the way, transfer them through a wide range of state aid schemes. I think that, in many ways, the relationship between some of the international community and Iran should be maintained in the hope that, when the open questions on the table are resolved with satisfaction and the negotiations on this issue are ongoing intensively in Vienna, and we hope that they will succeed, then we should have the legal framework and the economic framework in which a mutually beneficial economic activity from which, as I said, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian society as a whole, can benefit directly or indirectly. Thank you very much for understanding everything and for the consensus that I have reached on this issue. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-64	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on certain regulatory issues linked to an emergency is now taking place until closure. The government referral is T/17671. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The world has been living with the world's corona virus epidemic for almost two years. The period behind us has shown us that certain situations require rapid decisions and rapid regulation. Since the outbreak of the epidemic in Hungary, the government has focused its decisions on the protection of the health and life of Hungarian people, and it has also made it a priority to ensure that life and the economy in Hungary do not stop, which has also laid the foundations for the development of a regulatory environment in recent months. The National Assembly CII of 2021 amending Act I on the Control of Coronary Virus I. By adopting Law 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law, it therefore extended the mandate of the Government to maintain exceptional measures until 31 December 2021, thus ensuring the government's operational capacity and rapid response to the current challenges of the epidemic situation. There is no better evidence of the proper application of the delegated framework than Hungary's implementation of one of Europe's most successful vaccination programmes. On the one hand, this could be done because the Hungarian government has bought Eastern vaccines in a forward-looking way against other European Union countries in addition to Western vaccines. On the other hand, Hungary has taken immediate and faster disease control measures in almost all areas of defence than other Member States of the European Union. Hungary has been the first in Europe to date, which has been able to inoculate more than 50 percent of the adult population twice. Similarly, the registration and vaccination of children over 12 years of age began in Hungary for the first time in June, but Hungary was also the first to provide the third vaccination in Europe from 1 August. At this point, the EU averages 7 percent and Hungary 25-26 percent, in Europe we are the first in the third vaccinations. Effective decision-making from the mandate will also allow us to record significant progress in re-launching the economy. While during the recession of 2008-2009 the then government focused on aid and borrowings, the current leadership, learning from past mistakes, focused on protecting jobs while preserving unity and health. Hungary needed five years after the global economic crisis in 2008, to re-establish the growth path, but now, one and a half years after the outbreak of the Crown Virus in Hungary, we managed to reach the level before the epidemic. It reflects the successful implementation of the economic protection action plan and the strength of the national economy, with peaks in employment, investment and quarterly economic growth in Hungary over the last two years. Dear House, As you can see from what has been said earlier, the temporary and extremely high standards in the event of an emergency have fulfilled their expectations, and the legal system has become a necessary and useful part of this extraordinary situation. Unfortunately, however, the new virus variants present new challenges all over the world. In Europe and in Hungary, the delta variant of the corona virus is already spreading in the fourth wave of the epidemic, with unprecedented speed and consequences, which, due to its unpredictability, still require the possibility of increased and effective protection, and there is also the South African omicron virus variant at the door. The government is proposing to extend the scope of Act I of 2021 on the control of the coronal virus epidemic until 1 June 2022 in the legislative proposal before you, which would allow you to respond flexibly to the difficulties caused by the outbreak. As before, the regulatory system will also provide the possibility, depending on the intensity of the epidemic situation, for the government to initiate the removal of the emergency before the law expires. With regard to the extension of the emergency, it is necessary to clarify that this does not affect the general election of Members of Parliament, its appointment in April or May, as follows from the Fundamental Law. With regard to the national referendum, as from 1 January 2022, the amendments made to this proposal ensured that they could be carried out during an emergency. Dear Parliament, In the event of an emergency, pursuant to Article 53 (4) of the Fundamental Law, the Government's decree pursuant to Article 53 (2) of the Fundamental Law shall be repealed with effect from the end of the emergency. Therefore, the legal certainty and the regulatory environment in the areas covered by emergency legislation should be guaranteed at legal level with appropriate transitional provisions. The bill before us therefore intends to maintain the transitional provisions applicable until the emergency is resolved and to ensure regulatory continuity after 31 December 2021. Allow me to highlight a number of regulatory areas where maintaining or establishing transitional provisions is intended to make life easier for Hungarians. The bill intends to continue to grant a number of prior benefits, including the preferential award of the higher education diploma. [[13.00]] As a result of the pandemic, narrowing the possibilities of language learning and, on the other hand, limiting the possibilities of language examination, in particular language examination, made it necessary that, as last year's decision, those who could not obtain secondary language exams could join the world of work as graduates this year. In addition, as is already known, a significant reduction in the number of contacts between citizens is warranted in order to control the coronal virus epidemic. One of the tools for this was the suspension of the customer reception of government agencies and the Alien Police Authority. At the same time, several official documents have expired as a result of restrictions on the opening hours of an outbreak of the Crown Virus since the spring of 2020. The Government has already granted a transitional regime for the extension of the validity of expired documents in 2020 and the government regulation is still in force. However, a significant number of expired documents are still in use, the validity of which has been extended by the transitional rule, so they are legally used by citizens. The bill therefore sets the validity of expired documents with a uniform date of 30 June 2022, so that the date of exchange of documents can be known and scheduled for six months in advance. Over the past year and a half, the pandemic has fundamentally changed the daily life of most families, the cardinal point of which is to work. During the time of the emergency, teleworking more widely than ever has served not only to preserve the health of workers and families, but also to preserve the stability of the economy. The emergency regulation of teleworking has created an appropriate legal framework based on good practical experience, thus laying down the necessary rules for implementing the Government Regulation on the application of teleworking rules in the event of an emergency. The amendment is to shift the practice of teleworking into the normal legal order in the event of an emergency. Finally, it is necessary to note that during the emergency period, a public passenger travel benefit would be granted to a health worker and a medical student in health sciences who is involved in the control of the coronal virus pandemic. Once the emergency has been resolved, it is also necessary to provide for a transitional period for the persons benefiting from the travel allowance referred to, during which the persons concerned and the institutions may obtain the employee's passes. On the basis of the proposal, the certificate for free travel is valid until 14 days after the end of the emergency, which entitles national, regional, suburban and local passenger services to be used free of charge, without the purchase of tickets, travel, space and spare tickets. Dear House, As has been the case so far, we can continue to say that vaccination is the most effective means of combating a coronal virus epidemic. Hungary is fighting a coronal virus epidemic with one of Europe's most effective vaccination programmes. I would also like to thank our fellow citizens who, directly or indirectly, help with this defence. Here, within the walls of the Parliament, the best way to help the defence is to create the necessary legal framework and maintain the established rules. With the bill before us, we can ensure consistency between the previous emergency regulations and the legal provisions. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-30-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Ákos Kara. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-30-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I personally believe that in these times of trial it is essential to ensure the widest possible national cooperation and social solidarity. It has now become clear that preventing, slowing down the spread of the coronal virus and supporting the fight against infection, safeguarding human health and relaunching the Hungarian economy is a common task for all of us, and it is a common task for all of us. In difficult times, in challenging times, responsible decisions must be taken by Parliament and the government. The government's primary goal, as it has done so far, is to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people and to start the economy as soon as possible and to preserve the workplaces of Hungarian workers, Hungarian people and Hungarian families. That is why the bill we are discussing has been put in place. The new variants of the coronal virus spread with unprecedented speed and consequences across Europe, but also worldwide. In the fourth wave, due to its unpredictability, it is essential to ensure effective and increased protection. That is why I think it is important, it is extremely important that the government will turn to Parliament again, because it has declared an extraordinary legal order and is asking for its extension from the Hungarian Parliament until 1 June 2022, so until 1 June 2022. However, it should be noted that, if the epidemic situation allows it, the government will initiate the lifting of the emergency situation before the law expires. Dear fellow Members, I would also like to point out that the retention of the general election of Members of Parliament, its establishment for the month of April or May, is the result of the Fundamental Law, i.e. it is not affected by the existence of a special legal order. National referendums will also be possible in the event of an emergency, as the framework will be provided by the Government Decree on the organisation of a national referendum and by Act I of 2021 on the protection against the Corrovirus pandemic, as amended by the current proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, It should be stressed and highlighted that the reason why the epidemic has been well managed is because the country has joined forces, because Hungary has joined forces. Of course, we needed excellent, superhuman health and social workers, professionals who were in their field of expertise, well-organised government protection, and the discipline of Hungarian people. Now the country is in such a better position at the end of autumn 2021, approaching December, that we are better prepared for both infrastructure and experience, and there is already a vaccine, there is enough vaccine, and if everyone adheres to the rules, together we can stop the spread of the pandemic in Hungary and start the economy at the same time. Our common goal is to put the plague behind us as soon as possible, the whole epidemic. Our chances are good, which is why it is very important that we continue to maintain discipline. We have a sufficient number of vaccines, vaccinations are all effective and safe, vaccinations are the most important means of combating the epidemic. According to health data, less than 1 percent of vaccinated people are sick in Hungary, so it is important that those who have not already done so should also ask for vaccination. I would also like to highlight the sentence that the vaccination works, that Hungary works. We have to thank health care workers, doctors, nurses, all hospital staff, paramedics, GPs, their assistants, who have been under a huge burden all along and have been burdened in these days. Thank you for those working in social care and social services, teachers, police officers, soldiers, those working in public administration and trade for their exemplary position. If you'll allow me, even the employees of Magyar Posta, so I would like to highlight the postmen in particular. I would like to thank everyone who is committed to exercising their vocation in the interests of the people, in the interests of the Hungarian families, also during the epidemic. The government launched vaccination week was extremely successful, and it was extended, and we know that Hungary is the first to take the lead in the third vaccination in Europe. [[13.10]] We therefore thank all Hungarian people for the discipline and patience they have shown in recent years. At the same time, we ask for more endurance and patience from everyone, for this is necessary. Another great joint effort is needed to finally defeat the coronal virus by the sufficient number of vaccinations and to leave the sad, even tragic, years of the epidemic behind us. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of legal certainty and the rule of law requirement of a predictable regulatory environment, the purpose of the bill we are discussing here is also to regulate legal relations in times of emergency in such a way that the regulatory transition is clearly and predictablely ensured and that the change in the regulatory environment is guaranteed by law. In order to ensure legal certainty, it is therefore necessary to lay down and define these rules, since the termination of an emergency and the expiry of emergency government regulations cannot take place without the establishment of appropriate transitional provisions. Please allow me, without the need for completeness, to highlight some of the important points of the bill we are discussing here. I would like to point out, for example, that the proposal requires Btk. regulation other than its duration, which is based on the existence of stricter rules in the event of an emergency with regard to the misuse of a protection certificate. I would also like to point out that the bill also states that an offence committed during an emergency must be assessed on the basis of the legislation in force at the time of the offence, i.e. in accordance with the emergency government regulations in force at that time. I would also point out that the proposal sets a time limit for criminal supervision under emergency provisions and provides the legal basis for the possibility for persons not yet transferred to be detained in order to transfer, and I would also point out that a significant number of expired documents are still in use, the validity of which has been extended by the transitional rule, so that they are legally used by citizens, so that the bill sets out the validity of expired documents with a uniform date of 30 June 2022. I could also describe the important detailed rules laid down in the proposal, but the Secretary of State has just described them in detail in his exposé. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the bill submitted. I would ask all my fellow Members to also vote in favour of the fight against the epidemic, including this bill, regardless of party standing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-30-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is coming. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I listened attentively to the lead speaker of Fidesz. How did Ákos Kara begin his speech? Solidarity and solidarity. Yes, that is indeed true, that is what we need, solidarity and solidarity. That's what I'm missing. And, well, we can now experience a number of re-buttonings of the regulation of Fidesz, of the fact that, although I do not know what else has to do with this, it is usually in the pockets of Mészáros and his companions, who kills Swedish pets from helicopters at midnight. There is no fairy tale, and it must be said that you, ladies and gentlemen, the government has simply acquired the taste of bringing institutionalized corruption to justice, that during the emergency brought about by the plague, they will be given complete freedom to do anything; once again, I say anything that would cost a particular interest billions, billions. The emergency law will no longer require a parliamentary debate. Even in the cafeteria of the Dácha Felcsút, you can decide on the fate of hundreds of billions and people. The fact of the submission of the salad law before us is in itself neglecting all logic, and, moreover, it is crossing every government narrative that has ever been done, even though it is humiliating to the institution of the Parliament, and it is certainly seriously undermining democracy and its trace amounts in the Orbán course. But let's see, this was already mentioned in the introduction, what has been achieved so far, if I count correctly, during the third emergency government! You are proud of Hungary's disease management. The numbers show otherwise. The Hungarian government's disease management is under-critic. Health is on the brink. There are thousands of health professionals missing, hundreds of GPs missing, and as I see the numbers and news, the debts of hospitals are back to horriable. The number of patients on hospital waiting lists is increasing exponentially, and here allow me to respond with a single sentence to Minister Kásler's statement to the Welfare Committee, who said that these lists could be drawn up in a few weeks. I know a guy who just got three years of hip replacement surgery. Unfortunately, the time of surgery and imaging is now slowly falling into the infinite distance. Also, I don't want to give you my own example, but I know of someone who's been holding off an important cancer prevention investigation for months, and he's slowly not getting paid benefits to make sure what's wrong with him. Today's news: the number of patients who died of Covid until today is 34 326. And what you're so proud of is what you're less, in proportion to the population, four times as many people die in Covid as the European average. Well, this is your disease management. And beyond that, the government has also betrayed the remaining confidence of the population, which is reflected in the last week's vaccination campaign. Yes, that campaign is indeed a very important measure. And we are very happy, and personally, I am happy, too, and I think that the opposition is totally on our side here, that this campaign has succeeded. But what does it say? It is clear that Hungarian people are pro-vaccination. It is clear that not vaccines have been trusted otherwise, but the government has neither trusted nor trusted; that registration will store their data in some kind of Kubatov-list-like database; that they will take advantage of it, that they will use it for propaganda steels, because you can see that now that you do not have to register, people are in long, crowded queues for vaccination. But to all of this, the situation has also been accompanied by government inconsistencies, which we are getting used to. The fact that the emergency was maintained in the summer, when there was absolutely no need for it at that time, is why, in the common language, the saying that the virus may be on vacation in the summer. But the fourth wave did not matter when the Eucharistic World Congress or the World Hunting Exhibition took place. Not so much that for the World Hunting Exhibition, among other things, complete schools were ordered from Debrecen, children were brought to school, regardless of the epidemic, and it did not matter whether the children were vaccinated or not. And, well, let's call the baby by name. All the emergencies we've had so far have been good for you, even more, to destroy the local governments and to bring more public money into the bottomless pockets of the buddies, the oligarchs, the Tiborczs and the Butchers. And, well, somehow, the picture doesn't add up; and I've also heard that from the lead speaker of Fidesz, but the problem is that not only do I hear it, but we meet on the road and road with those billboards that are due to your hundred billion-dollar propaganda, and that's actually nothing more than a boob-banging lie that the vaccine works and Hungary works. [[13.20]] It's okay. Let's just say that's not true, but let's face it. If this is the case, then why do we need to prolong this emergency over and over again? If the vaccine works and Hungary works, then what doesn't work? I'll tell you, the government doesn't work. If all this works, why isn't the normal legal order working? Why isn't it working? Because, as so many have already said, there is no logic in that, and I must add, there is no way that some large events can be held without restrictions, but for others they think it is essential and feel the vaccination card. Interim municipal elections cannot be held, and the same applies to referendums and local referendums because they pose a serious threat to public health. Strangely, according to Chief Hunter Semyen, while local referendums cannot be held, national referendums are opened. But let's continue with the weird stuff. It is included in this bill: the extension of the time limits for requests for data in the public interest; the amendment of the 1996 law on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and restrictions on competition, which allows for the application of on-site research in an accelerated sector inquiry; the deletion of the mining rights of the mining business operator and the possibility of the appointment of the new owner of the mining right in the mine estate by the Hungarian National Asset Management Private Limited Company; the exemption of Eximbank from the scope of the Public Procurement Act; the provisions on the application of the different provisions of the bankruptcy law concerning enterprises of strategic importance; and last but not least, as I could quote a number of these from this law: the arbitrary distribution of the total amount of the remnant of the National Cultural Fund to help politically committed artists. This is what you all believe to be effective in protecting against the epidemic, as it is included in this bill. There was also a question of what will be a very exciting question, how they will think about the conduct of parliamentary elections. What's really going on in your witch kitchen? After all, this is now in everyone's mind, because obviously we do not have to be a fortune-teller to model the near future; that, at the time of the elections, particular emphasis will be placed or given to the proposal to extend the regulation's governance that is now in front of us. That I say this suddenly, of course, along with prudent epidemiological measures, in quotes, it will not be possible to hold election meetings or even forums. I don't know if it's gonna happen, but I do know that fear is a great master and a great master of ideas. The thing is, though you're not gonna like this, but I have to say, you've been smelling fear from afar. They are afraid of 2022, afraid of elections, afraid of the current opposition, afraid of accountability. They're afraid that sooner or later you'll be caught up in the wheel of history, and they'll go where they belong. But not to say that I'm just saying negative things today, I'll tell you what I like about what's in there. What could be done, or should have been done a long time ago, or kept, but you don't have to do what you've brought before us. I like the provisions on time-calculation rules, the amendments related to the loan repayment moratorium, the exemptions from certain tax and other charges obligations, except, of course, the withdrawal of funds from local authorities, the extension of outstanding documents, the provisions relating to the reorganisation of business close to bankruptcy. I also like the provision to ensure that people who do not have a farm number but who are eligible for vaccination are able to receive or register for vaccination. I like the possibility of free travel of special rules on teleworking, health workers and students in medical and health sciences who are involved in the control of the coronal virus pandemic. And I also like the fact that access to a degree has been made easier in some way. But it doesn't forget what this law is really about, what you've hidden in it, what you're still up to, what you're still up to, how you're gonna destroy the local governments, how you're gonna destroy democracy, and how you're gonna destroy our future. But you're not gonna make it. We're here, we're watching, and we'll have you accounted for shortly. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-11-30-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Similar or perhaps a little more, we have had countless discussions over the past two years on the coronal virus pandemic, the government's responses to it, the disease management, the economic crisis management. We have been discussing the extension of the emergency situation here several times. There were many opportunities for the left to stand up and apologize in one of these debates, but this did not happen today. Zoltán Varga went on exactly where he last left off on the Welfare Committee or on numerous occasions when he attacked professional authority, doctors in their person, faith, human dignity, and everything else. Congressman Varga is like the other left-wing Members, that when he received the duster and the bull as rescue questions in the eighth grade, he did not think that he would have to argue and interfere with virology and medical matters with this knowledge. When he received such questions from biology as a rescue question, he did not think that with this preparation he should interfere with, intervene and criticize epidemic issues.
u2021-11-30-72	Congressman, I'd like you to turn to the bill.
u2021-11-30-73	That's right, thank you very much, Mr. President. The statement by the representative of DK shows exactly what the left is thinking about Hungary today and how he feels about disease management. Let us look at what happened in this emergency, why it was and why the emergency was needed. The extraordinary mandate serves to enable the government to make quick and effective decisions. We see that the epidemic situation is so, and this is for reasons beyond our control, because that is what this virus is now with us, that the situation is changing from day to day. Look, ladies and gentlemen, at a significant part of the Western European countries, look at how the situation has changed in two weeks, for example, the rules of entry in the UK, the different quarantine rules from Austria. How the situation changes from day to day; weeks and months will not pass before the situation changes slowly and will have to be adapted, but may require a day-to-day decision-making, a minute- or an hour-to-day decision-making. Don't do that. Let's get out of this, everyone get vaccinated, and the plague will be over, we can flatten the fourth wave, and we can avoid the fifth, sixth, or who knows what wave. I agree with that, my honourable fellow Member. All we see is that reality is, with the various delta and omicron mutants appearing, the situation is that quick, immediate and effective decision-making may be necessary. Just like it used to be. From the closure of the borders, through the purchase of various protective equipment, health control, to the question of credit moratorium, which helped families, there have been countless decisions that the government has been able to make quickly and effectively in order to guarantee the health and safety of Hungarian people. But all you've ever done is block this defense. To this day, there's Lajos Korózs Kamuvideo sitting in their group, who beat the medical staff with a chamomuvide. To date, there is on Parliament's website a proposal for a resolution signed by fifty of you to ban one of the Eastern vaccines. You regularly spoke up against the Eastern vaccines, inciting people, unsure, and the result is that today there is a representative, although he represents an independent party in the Parliament, who makes anti-vaccination sounds every day. This is the result, and this has led to this, my fellow Members. They're making people insecure in vaccinations. She also thinks she is a medical expert, and she talks about what she does in social media, what she doesn't do when she's vaccinated, as if she's good at it. I think the government's disease control was right because it listened to the operational tribe and the experts in the operational tribe. Virologists, epidemiologists, doctors, hospital directors. [[13.30]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian authorities are being made up at this time, Hungarian doctors are being made up, Hungarian epidemiological experts are being made up at this time, and I do not think that this is correct and appropriate, especially inappropriate and appropriate in the middle of an epidemic situation. My colleague mentioned the vaccination week. 784,000 people received the vaccine during the first vaccination week, which is why it has been extended this week, and 96,000 of our countrymen have decided to take the first vaccination, which is a special pleasure and a great number for me, although there has also been a distortion. Congressman Varga has presented this vaccination week as if now, if you go to the hospital, you wouldn't be able to take your data and health care couldn't register who had been vaccinated and who didn't. Obviously, this is one of those slides that is customary and appropriate in DK circles. My colleague from DK spoke about the health situation, and he has a devastating view of the work of doctors and nurses, and he has a devastating view of the state of hospitals, the state of health and the people working in it. I would like to reject this and thank the doctors, nurses and health professionals for their work. I would like to thank you for your hard work for many months now, for more than a year and a half, and not just for them, but, as my fellow Member has said, logistics experts, soldiers and policemen, if you go to a fire station, you can see how soldiers roll forward, help and speed up the process for everyone who works in public administration. I would also ask the Secretary of State to give them the thanks of Parliament, as the people working in the administration have done a great deal in recent times to get past this epidemic, to re-open the economy and to protect health properly and to be in place. But the congressman came to Parliament with waiting lists, debts and health wages and workers in the debate today. There is an organisation called the OECD, according to which health expenditure per capita fell between 2003 and 2009 in a single Member State, which was Hungary. Between 2003 and 2009, healthcare expenditure per capita was not reduced anywhere else, only in Hungary. You wanted to put in paid health care. Forints 650 billion were withdrawn from health care and 6,000 medical workers were dismissed. I don't remember, although I was still in school at the time, how loud the congressman stood up against the Gyurcsány government or even Bertalan Tóth. How loudly did they beat the table so that 6,000 medical workers would not be dismissed and 16 thousand active beds would not be stopped? Where were you then? Do you know when the waiting list was longer? 2010. There were waiting lists by 2010, which were already unmanageable, and the debts of hospitals were 130 billion forints, and even a month's wages were taken from health workers. Honourable Congressman, Where were you then? How do you evaluate this period? Why didn't you speak up then? Or at least now, in hindsight, why don't you ask your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, to take such steps in health care? The drug prices have risen by 70 percent. Do you know how many ambulances have been recovered in the last three years of left-wing governments? Zero, Your Honour. They got zero new ambulances in the last three years. The fact is, honourable Member, that our doctors, our nurses, our health systems deserve respect from you, even from you, and the tone in which you insult the health system here, I do not think it is appropriate at all, because you have done everything you can. The honourable Member has also raised the question of local authorities, as if the tax on business was being hijacked by the government. That's what we're hearing every day now that half the business tax is being hijacked by the government. We hear it every day from the left-wing press, from your mouth. So you're saying that in companies that are small companies, so we're not talking about multinationals, in small companies that operate locally and have kept their employees, is this money going to the wrong place? Are you saying that these small and medium-sized enterprises should not survive? You're telling me these businesses don't work anymore? Release your men? Because it's helping them, it's not going into the central budget, honourable Member. I see the great effort, and it hurts you the most in the current bill and in our decisions not to allow left-wing authorities to raise taxes. This is how the DK mayors tremble to raise taxes and insult the government because they cannot raise taxes, such as László Óbudan Kiss, mayor of DK, and in many places in Budapest and in the country the DK mayors are unable to abuse taxes on the people who live there and make the government responsible. Yes, Congressman, we'll do it. We will not allow people living there to be unnecessarily abused, to pay taxes, and to raise fees, levies, and taxes locally. Yeah, we're doing this, and I think it's the right thing to do. We see that the current situation, the world policy, the pandemic, the economic situation, justifies the need for rapid and effective decision-making. We have seen that the efforts and steps taken to re-open the economy have been right, as employment is at a record level, as the performance of the economy has already reached and even has exceeded the pre-poverty level, and therefore the strengthening of the economy allows families with children to have tax refunds, the return of the 13th month pension or the personal income tax exemption for those under 25 years of age. This is possible because the economy not only reached but also exceeded the level where it was at the end of 2019 before the epidemic. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this has been achieved because we have made the decisions that we had to make in time, quickly and effectively, not only in the fight against the epidemic or in the fight against health, but also in the fight against the economy. While this work was being done by the government, you spread that the Hungarian Parliament did not work, and we talked here every night, arguing about the various legislative proposals. During the emergency, they said that a dictatorship would be built, that there would be regulation governance and that Parliament would not meet. In comparison, they complained about why we were discussing so many legislative proposals, why it is now time to bring these legislative proposals to Parliament. We were all here, arguing here. They know exactly how it worked, they know perfectly well that their accusations at the time did not stand up, they did not become dictatorship, they did not become dictatorship, I don't know what they had visualized here, Peter James had visions of coronations and other things, but became an effective epidemiological and effective economic defense. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that instead of constantly attacking health and disease management, you should focus on encouraging our fellow countrymen who for some reason did not inoculate themselves to take the vaccine, so that they can take the first one missing, the first one missing, and the third vaccine missing. We are at the top of Europe's list of confirmatory third vaccinations, but this number should also be increased. Use their own social media platforms, their own vast media, which supports you all and regularly insults the government, instead use it to promote vaccination and encourage people to be vaccinated. I think that the whole of Hungary and our entire community would be much better off if they did this instead of spreading untruths, for example, here in Parliament. I think we should not attack health workers, but focus on this. The KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-30-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said in the speeches so far on the part of the governing party. But let me tell you, all three of you who are sitting here on behalf of the ruling party, one thing is not, namely, that with regard to 34,521 of our dead countrymen, they would have said that they were very sorry for your loss. For 34 521 families, relatives and many tens of thousands of relatives, you have never once said that we are truly sorry for your loss. This is not a coincidence, my fellow Members, especially in view of the fact that your boss, the Prime, has said that he is responsible for the disease management, he is asking for extraordinary authority to do this responsible work, and then he said that the success of the control of the epidemic is indicated by the number of lives saved. The result is one, you failed! One of the highest deaths in Hungary is in Europe and the world. Their vaccination campaign was so successful that we belong to the lower third in the European Union. The Prime Minister himself went on the radio and told me that, well, the government can't do anything anymore. What you guys are doing is smearing responsibility, smearing that here are virologists and an operational tribe, and they're the ones who didn't make the decisions. You've been given the authority. [[13.40]] Orbán has not been authorised to take extraordinary measures for the first time, not for the second time, I do not know how many times. But I have to say, your disease management failed. The deaths of over 34,000 people indicate that this epidemic has failed. Well, it wouldn't have taken an extraordinary mandate to do that, nor would it have been necessary to use this extraordinary situation to provide their oligarchs with money, to modify the rules around the election, so that you will certainly have a positive election next year, to literally steal public wealth, universities, castles, real estate, to friends and foundations led by the Secretary of State. That's what they're busy with. We therefore believe that this performance does not require an extraordinary mandate, but we expect you to give this extraordinary mandate to the Prime again. We are very, very confident that this will require less lives, but we are living with suspicion that the elections are coming, and yet we have an extraordinary mandate for the Prime Minister, so we have tabled a proposal for an amendment in which we are curious to see that regulation government intends to go into the electoral rules as a reference to an emergency situation, and we would like to exclude it with this amendment, so I ask you to support this. Let them show that the claim that you are declaring an emergency only in order to cement your own power is not true, vote for it. The amendment concerns the fact that during the period of emergency, the rules of the Government decree issued on the basis of the mandate of the Government, the Act on Election Procedure, the Act on the Election of Members of Parliament, the Act on the Election of Members of Local Government and Mayors, the Act on the Election of Members of the European Parliament, the Act on the Operation and Management of Parties and the Act on the Transparentisation of the Campaign Cost of Election of Members of Parliament cannot be decided by the Government, so be decided by Parliament. During the period of emergency, the Government shall not, in a government decree issued under the authority of the Fundamental Law, establish a rule relating to elections which are not governed by the Fundamental Law or the Law. During the period of emergency, the government cannot create a rule in a government decree issued under the authority of the Fundamental Law that affects the electoral procedure, in particular electoral campaign activity, expression of opinion, assembly, awareness of data of public interest, freedom and diversity of the press, adequate information necessary for the development of democratic public opinion, the records on which voting rights are based, so do not take such a decision. During the emergency, the adoption of the electoral rule, in particular the rule relating to paragraphs 6 and 8, shall require the vote of four-fifths of the Members of Parliament present. This is the amendment by which you can demonstrate that you do not abuse this mandate, and this mandate will be used to do what we will not support in order to save the lives of the Hungarian people, because your leader, Viktor Orbán, has promised to do so. He said it's a measure of disease control. Well, then, act like one. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-30-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking everyone who is working today to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people, in such a difficult situation, in the process of long- and long-term disease control. We can see the shocking numbers the plague is producing again. Yesterday, too, we saw a rather tragic data, including yesterday's 195, nearly 200 people lost their lives. And then we can immediately turn to this bill and assess what the government has done or what the government has not done. The Fidesz lead speaker, Mr Kara, was telling the truth in one thing that the government is responsible for all the consequences that Mr.Bertalan Tóth spoke about, for the many, many terrible tragedies that Hungarian families have experienced, and also for the situation that the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society have been forced to endure over the past period. However, I am already questioning the fact that the current measures, the measures ahead of us and the measures that have been taken over the last few weeks and months, particularly in the absence of measures, would have motivated the government side in the political decisions that had been taken, that health protection was the most important. Unfortunately, reality doesn't show that. The government's actions, the government's decisions, they don't show that. What is happening now, what legislative amendment or legislation is before us: it is your intention, your bill is about extending the extraordinary legal order, the so-called emergency, from 1 January 2022 to 1 July 2022. So you consider this to be important to maintain the extraordinary mandate, to retain the possibility of regulation governance, to extend their power in this way until the beginning of July next year, but on the other hand, there is a lack of measures which, to say the least, should coincide with this legal step. In this way, I would like to express my questions as to why you do not act. You can see the numbers, you will get the right statistics, and compared to what we saw during the previous epidemic waves, the various restrictive measures, the measures taken to control the epidemic, why you will not take them. So we can see exactly what restrictive measures have been decided in the case of such numbers, on which, in many cases, we have also expressed our agreement. Why do these measures fail? How could it happen, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent months, especially during the summer period, you have virtually abolished the use of the protection certificate? They allowed everyone into the World Hunting Exhibition without any restrictions, so they were not prepared for the next wave of the plague, and in this way they did not try to do anything to increase grafting. You can make dramatic statements, but I think you should have taken action. All the tools were in your hands to increase grafting. We, as we have had opportunities, have always said that we consider vaccination to be very, very important, that everyone is encouraged to take the vaccine, because it is the most important tool in terms of protection. You, in particular, would have had the government's authority, opportunity, resources, communication, everything to increase grafting. It's canceled. Why did you miss it, fellow Members? Why didn't they use the protection card, why didn't they link it with services and acts of a kind that could have been used to motivate Hungarians to take vaccination? What kind of statistics are they starting from now? We also fail to see exactly where decisions are made, where decisions that would be justified by such brutal numbers are left behind. Congressman Nacsa, you have attacked the opposition in a large part of your speech, abused the opposition, and I am about to confirm that you have done this with lies. Don't you think it's important to have the appropriate restrictive measures now? Don't you think it's necessary for health protection to be the most important? I would also like to ask, especially the Secretary of State, what prognosis is expected. Obviously, you will receive the statistics that, by the way, the municipalities, which have a huge role to play in defence, will not receive. My question also concerns why cities, decision-makers and local decision-makers, whose important task is to control the epidemic, do not receive these detailed statistics, prognosis, municipal breakdown data, and why we have to fight to get the various hospital statistics. Many of these have not yet published vaccination data for different people currently being treated, and why are statistics on separate vaccines not published? Therefore, I think it is very, very important to provide this information to everyone, and otherwise it would also be very, very important for the public. [[13.50]] Congressman Nacsa, you have just attacked my fellow Members here by the opposition attacking doctors, by the opposition attacking health workers. It's a bloody lie, Your Honour. I'm going to give you a specific example, which is quite shocking. I have already mentioned several times here in the various debates that Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán accused Ferenc Jakab of specific alarms at the beginning of October 2020, who was missing late government measures and restrictive measures. So a professor of virology, who was asked by your government to lead the research group, formulated his professional criticisms or professional expectations to the Hungarian government, did he not, more than a year ago, in the case of the epidemic at that time, with regard to the late government measures, and then a responsible politician, one of your most influential politicians, accused him of alarming as Deputy Minister, and found that the numbers had stabilized. I think, in view of the tragic figures of the period since then, that there is no need to give particular indications to the unfounded and irresponsible statements made by that influential member of government. This case also confirms that it was not the opposition representatives who attacked professionals, it was not the opposition representatives who did not take the necessary measures from a government position. So now I would like to have answers to these questions. It is also unacceptable and incomprehensible that there are a lot of salad-like legislative proposals in your current measures, a lot of proposals that have absolutely nothing to do with the control of the epidemic, otherwise it has nothing to do with what a responsible government has to do in these difficult times. This has been listed in detail by my fellow Members, and I do not wish to repeat it. But please explain, fellow Members, that you would make it impossible to launch local referendums, to hold local interim municipal elections, and to go to cinemas from the other side. So you think that the responsible attitude, the responsible legislation, is that you can go to the movies, go to a club, go to a pub, but you can't hold a local referendum. What is the coherent, honourable Members, honourable Secretary of State? Why can't a local referendum be held when my fellow Members have already mentioned this, too, a national referendum can be held? But overall, what interests me is why various entertainment activities are allowed, while, let's say, limiting the functioning of local democracy in this respect. I think we see the most serious mistakes when we look at what you've used the extraordinary legal order for so far. We have said many times that you have not lived, but have abused the authority you have received, and obviously this is the case that we do not support it, because we see that you have not used the extraordinary legal order, or have used it not only for what you have been required to do. Your first measure was to take brutal austerity measures. Mr Nacsa has repeatedly mentioned that they do not allow taxes on municipalities, they do not allow public burdens to increase. However, it should be clear, ladies and gentlemen, that when you take money from the municipalities, from the cities, you are damaging the Hungarian people directly, since you are withdrawing from the municipality the resources needed to operate and secure the most important public services, and this has caused direct damage to the Hungarian people. (Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. István Tiba.) It was such a despicable measure that, in the most difficult period of the epidemic, the state withdrew from the financing of local public transport, local public transport, and in doing so, the rural cities were in a virtually impossible situation, but, of course, not only the rural cities, but also the capital, and again, the Hungarian people, the people living in these cities, were harmed. They also did not take into account the difficulties faced by water utility companies and did not provide adequate support to these providers. Newer and more measures have been taken to divert municipal resources and make it impossible for municipalities to implement defence in an appropriate and appropriate manner. This is also serious irresponsible. I think that this is also the point that we need to draw attention to, that, in this exceptional situation, you are once again failing to take the basic measures, but on the other hand, you are not giving the support, you are not giving the information to the municipalities, and I would add that you are not giving the authorities the right authority to implement the action. They also explain, ladies and gentlemen, that during the most serious period, during a pandemic, when a very deep crisis and economic and social crisis occurred in Hungary, you considered it important to focus on transferring huge resources from the disease control and economic protection fund to, for example, the Budapest-Belgrád railway development project serving Chinese interests. Why was it considered important then to encrypt this project and speed it up? Why did you think that you could do so during such a critical period, in such an epidemiological situation, when those affected worked amazingly to protect the lives of Hungarian people, that almost all Hungarian higher education was outsourced? How did you think, in this difficult situation, that you would have to submit proposals to the Parliament on the outsourcing of over a thousand billion public assets? You have proved very, very many times that you do not want to use this situation for good governance, not for effective defence, but for the exploitation of public wealth, the outsourcing of public wealth and, in fact, for an early election campaign, including, by the way, the very, very harsh amendment of the electoral law that was introduced about a year ago. I also think that there is full agreement in the opposition benches, and I also think that in the vast majority of the public, that you do not deserve more authority, that you do not deserve the authority of the opposition to the extraordinary legal order, because you have not lived, but have abused this situation, that you have abused the possibility of extraordinary authorisation and regulation. So what I can tell you is that the LMP fraction will vote no again this time for the extension of the extraordinary legal order. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-30-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I respectfully ask Mr László György Lukács that he wishes to speak now or after Mrs Dóra Dúró, because he has the opportunity to do so because his duties did not allow him to do so earlier. [[On Dóra Dúró's mark:]] Okay, well, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Then, Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group of Jobbik.
u2021-11-30-79	Mr. President. He was not wrong about having a fellow Member before, if I remember correctly, from the neighborhood of Kecskemét, who was named László Lukács, but we know about László Lukács, not only the singer of the Tanktrapda, who is known. Hungary had a prime minister named László Lukács, and I would rather not say his pre-existing name, because it was not a glorious finance minister's work that preceded his work. In any case, thank you very much, Mrs Dóra Dúró, for doing me this favour, that I can, if you will, be the last to speak in the main speakerial round. Thank you very much, and I will try not to abuse your patience. It is clear from the bill before us that we have had the opportunity to say many times over the past period, because we are witnessing a series of continuations of the government's permanent emergency mandate or request, and we are discussing, in essence, an extension of the emergency. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. László Varga.) So, we had the opportunity to experience and see what it was like when Viktor Orbán governs the country from an emergency to an emergency. It is no different now: it is continuous, essentially half of its current cycle is characterised by an emergency situation, which, by the way, is not used to eliminate the danger circumstance, but rather to control, adjust, according to its own power, what is appropriate for its convenience, and which supports its political goals. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) We can also say this because they are now prolonging the emergency for a long time and depressing society by the way, depressing a lot of people, because there is always the possibility that you will use certain restrictive measures and restrictions at your own convenience. Often, decisions that are incompatible with epidemiology are made and, by the way, non-emergency measures were taken at a rate that was not very relevant to how and how the epidemic could be dealt with successfully. It is clear that it is very important for all of us that Hungary's ability to defend itself and its ability to protect its health should be at the highest possible level. I take this opportunity to thank you for the work of those who, in recent times, have, by the way, stopped working with your work or with your work as a difficult circumstance, and have recently saved people's lives. This is not just about health workers, but also defense workers or otherwise law enforcement workers, and especially in the health care sector, rescue workers who have done serious, hard work over the last few months, especially because you have not been able to organise protection properly. [[14.00]] Protection does not begin with the introduction of restrictions or restrictive measures when there is a problem, but consciously prepares the state apparatus, public bodies, health, social services, educational institutions to prevent a major epidemic from happening. This is confirmed not only by Covid, but also by other previous epidemiological experiences, it is not a new thing. You didn't even bother to do that back then. And what is being asked for, and the extension of the emergency, is, for example, your secrecy in making all kinds of decisions public. I do not believe that it is possible to request data of public interest in Hungary for almost two years, so that someone has to wait 45 days and then 45 days to ask for it again. I would like to tell you my own experience, when I asked the health fund fund fund funding all health services in Hungarian health care, which also manages social security fees, information that clearly has to be available, because the disease identification code and the associated funding amount are also on the final report for everyone, so it is also on the report. They couldn't tell in 90 days that they had or didn't have any data, and they told me that, by the way, as an obvious lie, after 90 days that they didn't have any information about what I asked for. This happened to be the data on how many non-transmutation surgeries were performed in Hungary for minors, given that if such surgery is performed in Hungary for minors, it can be done with the funding of social security. Well, they couldn't answer that. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, the relevance of the problem is that back in 2015, the NEAK legal guardian OEP had a record of this, but now suddenly they had no such knowledge. I only brought this here because, not because of the subject itself, but because this is how the publication of data of public interest works in Hungary. Or do we remember when Muller Cecilia had to publish public interest data, then he e-mailed his own colleagues that we have no better explanation? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, obviously, they are trying to avoid seeing anything from epidemic treatment or public interest data. This is also a problem because in countries where they were able to defend themselves successfully, it was a continuous and honest communication with the population, the profession. By the way, experts do not learn about the effectiveness of the Russian vaccination from the Russian Minister of Health, but from their local minister in their own country or, by the way, from their working group who publish it. Hungary was there a month ago, when we asked about the effectiveness of the Russian vaccination, it was found out what the Russian vaccination knew, that the Russian minister told us, while it is quite clear that if the government had done research on this, there was already information that was published in the international paper not so long ago, perhaps a week ago in addition to the co-authorship of many people. It is a practical problem, and this shows your attitude after 2019, when they lost abundantly mainly in large settlements or in the capital, but also in rural cities, how they treat local governments. Minorisation of municipalities will be maintained continuously by a permanent extension of the emergency situation. One ectant example of this is that local elections are impossible to replace MEPs or mayors who have unfortunately died. You prevent people exercising local public authority and, let's just say, this is the most important place for public authority and direct democracy to be elected by those residents who really want to replace their fallen representatives because public intervention and local affairs can take place through them. Basically, it's going to be years before someone else gets replaced. There may not yet be a local government whose full operation is threatened by this kind of election of representatives or by-elections, but it still says a lot that some of these events, which I do not think may be considered an epidemiological risk, are excluded. The loss of resources from local authorities has been an ongoing use of the past period in today's debate, and it shows what the government's attitude towards local authorities is. With regard to the amount of transport financing granted to BKV, which was automatically referred to each autumn, a small series of political troubles had to be made so that the government would still think that it would be paid. This hinge, this violent, let's just say, is a muscle attack that you're doing, and what's trashing all over the opposition, but, you might say, with independent government leaders and representatives, it doesn't suit what you can do under the heading of an epidemiology defense. It is also very difficult to explain why there are still vehicles in Hungary or any device on the roads for which an aptitude test is required, with continuously extended validity. In essence, all outgoing documents have now been subject to continuous extension of validity for months. It should also be considered how it could be organised if, over the past period, vehicles were constantly working on the extension of documents not exceeding their period of validity, how a system could be developed to validate documents, to replace documents that have expired, to allow vehicles to take part in technical examinations, or to give a simple practical example, such as students attending universities and colleges, to be able to take part in language examinations. After all, we also see that in Hungary, since Covid started, they have actually managed to eliminate a serious threat, that these students have managed to obtain their degrees without even taking a language exam. By the way, it is very exciting, because a language exam is about as much preparation and about as many exams as students usually do in two or three exams, so I don't think a language exam would pose a serious risk. Yet, it is a very convenient and very good promise for young people that tens of thousands of young people are now getting a degree without having basically usable language skills. In your reading, it has always been said that one of the competitive advantages of Hungary is the well-trained workforce, our well-trained students, university students, well, without requiring language training, it is not certain that this is the goal that you expect and, by the way, the goals of all of us coincide. Let me give you one more, I think, repulsive, definite answer, and I think my fellow Member Nacsa will also be interested. You have regularly come up with the opposition's anti-vaccination. You have the right to say anything you want about the opposition, we're used to it. By the way, legal, semi-legal and perhaps even illegal methods are used to pressure the opposition in different ways, with observations, with follow-ups, with the incitement of journalists to Members, these are your tools. But the fact that the opposition is accused of anti-vaccination is perhaps the most repulsive way of doing this, because the Members of Parliament themselves have said it, and in many cases they have stood up for vaccination as one of the means of defence, because let us not forget that it is not just the only instrument. Let me bring you a piece of data worth considering for the Fidesz-KDNP representatives. In Hungary, a number of surveys will be carried out on the financial situation in which the district is located. In the list of the poorest districts there are the district of Kunhegyes, but otherwise there are many districts in Borsodi, and also Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county district. Typically, these districts are both areas won by Fidesz and by the representatives of Fidesz, so we can safely assume that people in these districts, when it comes to political decision-making, are watching the words of the governing parties. Compared to this, we can see that precisely in these districts and from the database of the Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, who was sitting here, the data that was very difficult to obtain, where the average salary was the lowest, which is the poorest district in Hungary, the lowest number of people with the protection certificate. So in the districts where you're supposed to have the most to say on your behalf, people have gone to the least part of our common defense with the vaccine. This is what you should consider to be the reason why in the districts where the Fidesz tarol, where the city elections are won, the parliamentary elections, there is a settlement, Tiszabő or Tiszabura, where you win by 98 percent, and 24 percent of the population are vaccinated. Compared to this, it is said that the opposition is anti-vaccination. Well, it's your word that counts in these settlements, and in these settlements, it's just been impossible in the past time to get people to do anything and at least choose this way of defense. There are many ways to defend yourself, and we also need to talk about it, and I think we need to be clear. Jobbik has also been constantly bullied by the fact that it's anti-vaccination. [[14.10]] We want to be clear, and we have made it clear what this is about: we believe that vaccination is a very important defence tool, but we also think that Hungarian people are adults who can decide what means of protection they choose in defense, and we can only hope and even work to convince them to take the vaccine, but adults can decide whether they need it or not. On the other hand, you did not take a stand against either compulsory vaccination or compulsory vaccination, but said that the employer would decide which worker to make it mandatory. People have been forced to face a situation, like those working in the public administration or working in a private place, that by 15 December, if you do not inject yourself, you have to give up your livelihood. And on a daily basis, I'm meeting someone who's now thinking a few years before retirement about where he's going to go to work, because he doesn't think he wants to take part in the defense in this way, because he's been involved in the defense, because he's been practicing personal hygiene, the mask, the distance, all of them, he's complied with the restrictive rules that your government has made. So, ladies and gentlemen, and especially here I look at my fellow Members with fidesz, in those districts, in those districts where there is a total overlap with poverty, the lowest number of people with vaccination and immunity certificates with your election victory, you actually have something to do, because the elections show that they are listening to your words there. So tie up your pants, and when it comes to defense, you should spend the next period with this; and not spend the next period beating the dust again in the municipalities, once again making rules that will want to intervene in the cleanliness of elections, and not making rules to deprive people of their livelihoods, and putting ordinary people and people who just ask them to work, earn money, and somehow at least fight inflation with their earnings, for which you are just waiting for something to happen. András Tállai's speech yesterday perfectly shows this, he said that people in Hungary do not even feel inflation. Well, András Tállai may not see any problems with inflation at the Mezőkövesd matches. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But it is a wake-up call, ladies and gentlemen, there is an economic crisis in Hungary, and you are using the whole CDC to tailor decisions to your own policy. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-11-30-80	Thank you, Congressman Luke. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Mrs Dóra Dúró.
u2021-11-30-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There will be no compulsory vaccination against the coronal virus, as this is a free country, not a dictatorship, Viktor Orbán said all this in April. The Prime Minister also said that the vaccine is a bulletproof vest, and the virus is off it, and if we all get vaccinated, then there will be no one to infect, and this crisis will be over. No vaccine will require a third vaccine, as Gergely Gulyás said in one of the Government briefs, but also in April. These are the lies your characters have told us. But Congressman Nacsa missed the professionals, so I would like to give you a few opinions from experts that have not been confirmed. There won't be a fourth wave of this kind of grafting in May, that's what Béla Merkely said. In fact, he also said that Covid will not be directly in Hungary in 2022, there may be a Covid case, but this virus will not be present in Hungary. If they listened to this specialist, there would be no need to prolong the emergency situation in 2022. What's gonna happen is, what's gonna happen is a sheep's immunity. Both Dr. Rusvai and Dr. Slávik and Dr. Merkely claimed 5-6 million vaccinees that this would be the time when we were going to achieve a flock immunity. Now we see that we have this vaccination level, and there's no flock vaccination anywhere. It was also said in December 2020, a year ago, that vaccinations could have a side effect of up to one or two days and that vaccines would probably protect you for life. Well, nothing has turned out as you said a year or a half ago about disease management or vaccination, so Viktor Orbán talks about it now, because there will be no other solution than to inoculate everyone and direct their communication entirely against the uninoculated, which is absolutely amazing. At first, you were just fighting the virus, and now it's not the virus that's a threat, but our undisposaled compatriots, our undisposaled neighbors, so we filed a complaint about the government's communication. But let us look at the facts that really happened in Hungary during the period of the epidemic, because it is very important to take into account what is the real situation. In the three months preceding October, i.e. August, September and October, based on the information provided by the Müller Cecílias, we can say that 48 percent of the new infected were vaccinated and 52 percent were vaccinated. So this is the aggregate data of three months, and it is from quite recently, so what Viktor Orbán said was that the virus was about to bounce off the vaccinees, it was not confirmed, and in fact, Béla Merkely talked about the fact that the two vaccinees in the public service TV maintained the epidemic, and that is why the third vaccination was needed. But they also have worse lies, honourable Members, than we can go without saying a word. This is about the Covid class of St. John's Hospital, of which one of the head of the shifts was interviewed by a Fidesz local government, the mountain municipality, and two-thirds of the patients who were admitted to the hospital were vaccinated by Dr. Benedek Horváth in the printed paper. The head of the shift doctor said that at the beginning of this wave, yes, it was typical that the uninoculated were the majority, now two thirds of the patients who received them were vaccinated. And what did you do, what did this Fidesz municipality do? We could also share the online version of the interview if it had been communicated unchanged, but it had been changed, these two parts were changed, and the online version did not include what was published in the paper in the interview with Dr. Benedek Horváth. I believe it is very unpleasant for you that this particular case, this specific transmission from St. John's Hospital, does not fit in with government propaganda on vaccination, but to such an extent, to such a transparent way to lie and to view people as stupid, is outrageous. But I could mention the general doctor in Budaörs who told the Buda Surrounding Television about his experience in his practice. In two weeks, in his practice, he identified 42 Covid-positive cases, and when the reporter there also asked how many of them were undisposaled, that the majority were undisposaled, he said no. Was the reporter shocked that he didn't? The doctor said that no, three or four of the 42 were unvaccinationd, not three or four were vaccinated, three or four were unvaccinationd, the others came to the doctor with two or three vaccinations. So in this general medical practice, 90 percent of patients in this current wave have two or three vaccines. After all, in light of this, the government says that the uninoculated are endangering the lives of others. Please, if your conscience can handle this, it seems like it can handle a lot of things. Minister Kasler has just announced that children between the ages of 5 and 11 will also be vaccinated in December. Viktor Orbán, when he said that adults cannot make vaccination mandatory, we see now that he practically made it mandatory by saying that those who do not practice should not eat, and that people should be fired from their jobs if they do not take vaccination, he already said that the situation is different for children, he can imagine that vaccination is mandatory for children. The fact that two million vaccines are ordered in Hungary for vaccination of children between 5 and 11 years of age, who are around 700,000, suggests that this vaccine is sufficient for three vaccinations for each child between 5 and 11 years of age. This clearly suggests that I want to make vaccination mandatory for children. [[14.20]] And speaking of children, I would like to reject, on behalf of all Hungarian adult people, the way the Prime Minister talks to them in his various statements and radio interviews. The way you talk to children about Christmas and Christmas is one thing, but the Prime Minister sees adult Hungarian citizens as so childish that he thinks that we should talk about Christmas gatherings, family reunions, that it's Christmas or Christmas, it's an infantile thing. Well, look at the Hungarian people as adults, and don't talk to them like they're the kindergarten children, because the Hungarian people are not at the level of preschool children! And I would also like to mention some objective facts about vaccination to you. It is a fact with regard to vaccinations that contracts concluded by the European Union, for example, with vaccine manufacturers, cannot be known. It is also a fact that neither manufacturers, the government, nor the rennet doctor take responsibility for the consequences of vaccines or vaccinations. It is also a fact that no one has long-term experience with these vaccines. It is also a fact that what was said a year ago either about side effects or about the duration of protection, such as Béla Merkely, is not true. It is also a fact that they cannot say that against this latest variant, which appeared in the world a few days ago, these vaccines are at all protected; vaccine manufacturers themselves do not know. But if, despite all these facts, one chooses in his own right that he does not want to take the chance of vaccination, he should not be considered a lizard man. That's a very strong argument. These are specific facts considered after responsible thinking, after which one can conclude that he is not inoculating himself, but seeking other ways to defend himself. And despite all these facts, all Hungarian politicians, apart from our country, encourage people to get vaccinated. Orbán, Klára Dobrev, Péter Márki-Zay, Péter James, Gergely Karácsony, everyone is talking about getting people vaccinated, and indeed, Momentum has a candidate who would also make vaccination mandatory, as Péter Márki-Zay said in a previous interview, that he could accept that if not only the employer could make vaccination mandatory, but that everyone would be obliged to do so. And obviously it is important to talk about the social consequences that the epidemic has brought with it. In Hungary, in the context of Coviddal, 3 000 of the population and 1 000 of the world's population lost their lives. Meanwhile, child poverty in the world has increased by 20 percent. The number of suicides in Hungary has never been so high. This is a clear consequence of the closure, even Gergely Gulyás did not deny it, a government info admitted that he had clearly risen to such a level because of the closures. There are various estimates of how much weight the Hungarian population gained during the closure period, but there is an estimate that the Hungarian population gained 50 million kilograms, which will also have measurable consequences in human lives and years of life, as will the restriction of sports opportunities. Also, it takes years or even human lives to pass screening tests. I know of a specific case, a fellow countryman in his 40s, who hasn't been diagnosed with cancer in time because the screening wasn't done by the doctors. They're people, they're victims. And the incidence of various mental illnesses has risen to unprecedented heights among young people, all in one of the hats of disease management. Each person made a sacrifice, but some people didn't have to make sacrifices. Some were richer, and they increased their profits even when all our countrymen were using austerity, many lost their jobs, families were in an extremely difficult situation, and the government was watching it with their hands. Last April, when the whole country was closed, Gergely Gulyás said that the defense costs HUF 1500 billion a day, and that this was done by the government at the expense of increasing the public debt, while the various multinational trade chains, giant tech companies or pharmaceutical companies gained unprecedented revenues. And we said and suggested that an epidemic solidarity tax be imposed on those who increase their income in connection with the Crown Virus, but the government didn't let them take the money, and you increased the government debt. And we can think of many things about vaccination, we can think of many things about disease management, but it is also an objective fact that the compulsory vaccination in the sectors of the public sector will have consequences. In a sector where there is already an extraordinary shortage of personnel, namely law enforcement, there will be insurmountable consequences of losing more firefighters, losing more police officers, losing more bvs because only vaccinated people can work there. But education is also such a sector: in many schools, teaching different subjects is already a major problem. After thousands of teachers leave this sector, i.e. public schools, from 1 January, in many places the provision of tasks itself will be put at risk. Well, think about it, please, ladies and gentlemen, if only two teachers leave one school, who will keep it for about 50 hours a week? What about the children whose teacher's aunt disappears on January 1st? What about the graduation classes that on January 1st, let's say your English teacher vanishes? What about the children with disabilities who are dealt with by medical educators, medical pedagogical assistants, with whom they are connected by an extremely strong emotional link? These people can't keep doing their jobs just because they don't want to be vaccinated? That's unfair! And regardless of what you think about vaccination or what you think about an epidemic, education in several places will be put at risk. Not only will he not be a specialized teacher, he simply will not be a teacher to attend classes and keep the classes. That is why it is necessary to withdraw this vaccination obligation and to consider that it would be the government's task to develop these sectors. Our country is the only party against compulsory vaccinations, we cannot support any closure and we protest [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Against children's vaccinations, too. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2021-11-30-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing nationalities, so I give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2021-11-30-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, Poštovani gospodine državni tajniče! T/17671 of 2021 on certain regulatory issues relating to emergency situations Following the submission of the draft law, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary initiated the discussion of the draft as a nationality item. At its meeting on 29 November 2021, our Commission decided that the provisions on certain house rules should be laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary Decision No 32 Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, it intends to hold a detailed debate on the whole of the bill, and Article 36 of the House Rule of Decision. Paragraph 5 of the Act called on me to present the committee's position as a committee related to the debate. Dear Parliament, The period behind us confirmed the need to extend the emergency legal order by three months. Despite the highly effective vaccination programme, the fourth wave of the corona virus reached Hungary. News from health care is becoming increasingly worrying because of the unpredictable nature of new variants, and it is important to strengthen and ensure an effective framework for protection. [[14.30]] The draft law before us clearly serves to enable the government to make effective and rapid decisions to protect citizens' lives and health, to alleviate economic damage and to preserve jobs. The period since the emergency announced last March has demonstrated that the exceptional and transitional measures taken have served the purpose of combating the pandemic. The Hungarian economy has been driven out of the crisis and the European Union's greatest growth, which has created the source of this year's and next year's funding. The results of the economic recovery will be tangible for pensioners, families with children and young people who have suffered most from the pandemic. Of course, we must not forget those health and social workers, soldiers, who have been fighting the spread of the disease in the first line for over a year and a half. We support the recognition of their sacrificial work, in addition to thanks and respect, through scheduled wage developments. Unfortunately, despite efforts, the virus continues to take large numbers of its victims. We share the grief of the family. From here, too, we ask our fellow humans to use the protection given by vaccination, because only this can stop the pandemic and avoid its worst effects. At present, we can expect an abundance of vaccines, but in order to ensure mass availability, it is crucial that our ethnicity citizens living in small settlements and disadvantaged areas have an equal chance of achieving them. We share the opinion of the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary, who explained that it would be necessary to deploy rennet buses and to set up mobile rennet points. We also recommend further promotion and promotion of successfully announced vaccination campaigns. It is necessary that anyone should be able to take the first or second and confirmatory third vaccines without booking a date. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, representatives of our ethnic communities are constantly monitoring the government's regulatory measures, in particular those affecting the interests and rights of nationalities. We need to draw attention to 599/2021. Government decree and 598/2021. (Cat. 28. a government regulation providing for rules for the admission of coronal virus vaccination of workers in public education institutions and the rights of employers in this regard. The extension of the legal requirements raises a number of problems in relation to public education institutions maintained by national self-governments. In the institutions maintained by local authorities, the power is addressed to the mayor, which raises interpretation questions regarding the chairmen of the local government. Furthermore, in the education sector, there is a duality in the fact that vaccination has now been compulsory in the institutions operating in the districts of education and education, which are maintained by the State, and which have their legal consequences. In the public education institutions maintained by the national authorities, this did not happen in view of the speciality of the teaching and teaching circles in terms of language skills and belonging to the community. From the feedback and surveys, our committee concluded that the involvement of a minority educator could put the professional responsibility of nationality at risk in state-owned institutions. Our communities insist on presence education, but in view of the specific requirements of nationality public education, the possibility of hybrid education should also be left open, which could be put at risk in these institutions because of the already scarce human resources. We are going to start negotiations on the stakeholders in this area. Dear House, During the entire period of protection, the committee representing the nationalities living in Hungary supported the proposals and adoption of the laws put forward on this subject. It is still in agreement with the extension of the scope of Act I of 2021 on the control of the Corrovirus pandemic until 1 June 2022. It considers it necessary that legal protection is granted to legal entities governed by an emergency situation and that emergency government regulations should not be repealed until appropriate transitional provisions have been laid down. We support the provision that the government is authorised, in view of the evolution of the epidemic situation, to declare the premature expiry of the law. It is noted that the retention of the general election of Members of Parliament will, by virtue of the Fundamental Law, occur during the period of existence of the special legal order, at least possibly. Nationalities participate in the Parliament's work by means of a representative or spokesperson who has obtained a mandate from a list, in particular on matters concerning the interests and rights of nationalities. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. As a result of this year's amendment of the Act, the national minority self-government may already decide, after 1 October 2021, to set up a nationality list, with which nearly half of the general meetings have already lived until today's meeting. It should also be mentioned that the amendments to the bill provide an opportunity to carry out a national referendum during an emergency, which can be done on the basis of the previous items on the agenda. The bodies of national self-governments may meet and perform the tasks of national self-government. Despite these concerns, the existence of a special legal order has no influence on the functioning of these basic institutions of democracy. Dear Parliament, The T/17671. The draft legislative text No 1 of the Act follows in its structure the proposals submitted in the previous period on this subject. The introductory provisions clarify that the emergencies declared over the last year should be regarded as continuous with each other. It is clear from the wording that regulation is being made specifically for one specific period. On the basis of further structural fragmentation, the scope of the provisions on emergency transitional rules and amendments to certain laws will be split. Among the transitional rules, it is worth highlighting that the students who graduated this year are also exempt from the required language examination, so that they can appear in the labour market with a higher education degree. We also supported the extension of the project periods of the budget-support programmes under the central budget, which coincide with the interests of national minority organisations, in the proposals for emergency legislation for the previous period. A specific date will be set for the possibility of holding interim elections that have not been held and for the referendum, which also concerns local self-governments. Among the provisions amending the individual laws, we welcome the fact that the possibility of teleworking will be re-regulated and that the related costs will be reimbursed in a limited but tax-free manner. Dear House, Based on the opinions set out above, our committee is working on T/17671. The EESC agrees with the regulatory principles of bill No 1. Certain specific, textual provisions provide the necessary framework for protection in order to reduce additional waves that are also assumed by epidemiological experts. We hope that the actors in society will understand the importance of complying with the rules and mobilise their resources to improve the rate of grafting, ensuring that in the holiday season ahead, the closure will not determine the lives of our communities. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[A round of applause from the spokespersons.]]
u2021-11-30-84	Thank you very much, Mr József Szolga. We are now listening to an independent Member Mrs Bernadett Szél among the other speeches.
u2021-11-30-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The fact is that I would like to talk to you more about what you have actually used the emergency that you have been asking for for for over a year now, because you are supposed to be using it to protect Hungary, which was actually done, is an unscrupulous service to the power of the government and the oligarchs near the government. In fact, now that we're here in the fourth wave, and they had a whole summer to prepare the country for what's waiting for us, because the doctors already told us what to do, you didn't use this summer for what you were supposed to do. [[14.40]] They argued with me very well, they hid the databases here and there, and it was very difficult for us to get the numbers that revealed what the protection certificate was like in Hungary in different areas and the protection at all. They had a lot of fun giving us different texts in response to data requests, but they didn't really care about the point. I watched that practically starting from cathedrals in neighbouring countries, across the Danube, people were vaccinated everywhere, let alone registration, but people were called in in in every way they could. And you guys were acting like, I don't know, like, time has stopped, you guys went on vacation, you know, relax, I don't know what you were doing, but you weren't dealing with what a government would expect in a situation like this, that's for sure. A country has been assured that after two million tests, PCR tests, virtually one million of them are being burned by Minister Péter Szijjártó and his scouts and raiders. That is why we pay 5 billion forints, i.e. for the tests, and hundreds of millions of forints to be burned, and in addition, at the border of my constituency, we will watch the PCR tests that, if the deadline had expired, could have been given free, say, to schools, social homes, nursing homes, to carry out the test for free. By the way, testing in a lot of countries is totally free. Last week I was in Berlin myself, as a Hungarian citizen, I walked into a test centre on the street, and in about five minutes they saw that there was a problem with me in addition to my vaccinations, in ten minutes there was a negative result, and nothing had to be paid for. In fact, they told me next time I didn't even have to sign up, so they'll see if it's in everyone's best interest to find out if someone's infected or not. This is how it is done in Germany, Austria, Slovakia, which you have constantly scolded. What's happening in Hungary? If someone has to test, for example, buy a family of five, it leaves about 100,000 forints for five PCR tests. Meanwhile, you're watching the tests go up in smoke because they're over, and you're so capable of steering, you don't notice the expiration date. In the meantime, they hide the databases, and in the summer, they put it on big billboards to put it out. But when I wanted to talk to you about where the sprinklers were and how you would get to about 200 to 300 thousand of our countrymen who lived in the most difficult conditions, you had to wait 90 days, and Muller Cecília and his associates tried to find better texts. So let us get to the subject: what are you using this emergency that you are asking the Hungarian Parliament to do? For example, in order to completely eliminate control, the kind of control that we want to exercise on you from the opposition, the remaining transparency is also being taken away from us. What didn't they release? I did some collecting. I've requested a national vaccination plan. It wasn't published. Until now, there has been no data on the effectiveness of vaccines, although this was originally promised by the end of May. The vaccination data at municipal level were not published. They don't give it to me, but sometimes they don't give it to mayors. I've had to wait 90 days for the lifeboat records. That's 90 days. Most recently, they also hide the proportion of vaccinees and uninoculated people in hospital and our fellow countrymen on the ventilator. They don't actually give out anything. If you remember, I went to the Constitutional Court because I believe that it does not help to protect against the epidemic at any level by concealing the data. Surprisingly, the Constitutional Court, with which you have done a lot of things that should not have been done, has actually rejected the case law that you have applied and said that there must be some normal justification if you wish to hold back the data. They haven't changed the drill since. I now see that the data requests are constantly discarded for 45 days, 95 days, and I see many times that the institution lists its ordinary public tasks in terms of terms of terms, as an extra task, so that it cannot fulfill the data request. Let's really finish this charade. It's so transparent, so outrageous, so unworthy, so scandalous that I can't tell you. I think it's gonna be a separate box for politicians in hell who use the plague to consolidate and increase their own political interests. What you're doing is quite scandalous. They cannot explain to me what kind of national economy, health or any purpose there is or what Muller Cecília is not able to answer questions normally. No way! This whole story is about one so you can secretly do whatever you want. And what do they do? You know, if you had a little interest in the situation of Hungarian families in this whole story, then let's say you would have cared about parents who would stay at home with their children in quarantine and are losing their jobs, begging for freedom, even unpaid leave, because grandparents can't really be trusted with such an epidemic, or just by endangering grandparents. What is the solution of the Hungarian government to this situation, what about these mothers and fathers, what about these families? Have you given support to the families of the children in quarantine? But there is, for example, a range of small and medium-sized enterprises. They couldn't put together a proper wage support program. At the beginning of the year, there was a huge scandal that companies in the service industry had to wait four months for the sector's already completely limited wage support, because it was so bureaucratic, and government agencies were so not dealing with what they should be doing. There are also family members who care about people who have been taken out of hospitals. I have also sued you for more time in court than I have in the Hungarian Parliament about how many people have been sent home, because Minister Kasler, in the first wave of the epidemic, decided to send sick people home from hospitals. It was also a case, and I will tell you here in Parliament that a man who had brain surgery, who had been operated on Tuesday, was about to be sent home on Friday, because Minister Kásler has decided to do so somewhere. The doctor had to fight for it in such a way that at least he could stay for the weekend. But what happened to the people who received the patients at home? Did they get anything? No, they didn't get anything. And what about social workers working in nursing homes, disability homes? They were given extra leave, but neither a salary increase nor a one-off salary supplement, even though these people have endured tremendously in these homes and have survived to this day. What happened to Butcher Gunner and NER? Let's take a look. Only until May of this year, NER's construction companies were successful in 800 billion tenders. We're talking 800 billion forints! Lőrinc Mészáros' support for the renovation of the hotel was memorable. Through Opus Global, Hunguest Hotels received nearly HUF 18 billion to renovate its 14 rural hotels and received HUF 17.7 billion. By the way, this kind of support didn't land on anyone, while Ripper dismissed 800 of his employees. So they couldn't talk to their own oligarch so much that, Lőrinc, you'll get this 18 billion forint, but at least don't fire people. And a little more about Ripper Lawrence. I filed a complaint because there is this plant of wheat starch, Viresol, which received quite an amazing support dump, while, as a result of my complaint, another opposition representative's complaint was supposed to have investigated it. What happened was that in 2019 the company of Lőrinc Mészáros caused serious water pollution and toxic gas pollution. In November 2020, he received HUF 406 million from the government to expand his company's capacity. So once there is 406 million forints for capacity expansion. Then, in December 2020, 1.3 billion non-refundable investment grants, then the State Department arrived, quickly gave HUF 220 million under the heading of recovery from the crisis, and, of course, also received two-and-a-half billion preferential loans from Eximbank in two instalments. Meanwhile, Mészáros was also rescued from the polluting Mátra Power Plant. Thank you very much, Lőrinc Ripper. He's having a good time. These subsidies, and I might add, were all assigned to their oligarchs during an emergency, while the parents who were trying to study with their children at home could not practically count on the government to work in handicapped homes, in social homes, or in hospital caregivers. Then why do you need this emergency? Here's the answer: defecate their own oligarch and hide the numbers. There's still the question of local governments. This is because I have been watching, there has not been a government in Europe anywhere that would have squeezed the municipalities during the epidemic. This is exactly what you've done: you've taken half your hip income, you've taken half your car tax revenues, you've increased your solidarity contribution, you've introduced an institutionalized robbery called special economic zones, and the city of Göd can tell you a lot about it. [[14.50]] So, the thing is, you guys started robbing your own municipalities. Look at my constituency: in Pest 2, the city under opposition control, Budaörs, was most affected by government restrictions. By the way, I've asked for the numbers of all seventeen settlements, so I can see what's going on in the field. I would like to highlight Budaörs because they pay more than one tenth of the total number of victims collected at this address in the country at the title of solidarity contribution, which is a loss of virtually billions to the city on an annual basis. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: The richest municipality.]] Be kind, Mr. Nacha, don't yell, there's the button, press if you have something to say. In 2020 it was 2.3 billion forints, which was taken from Budaörs, this year the increased amount, because they increased the amount, it will now be 3 billion forints. There's a half-life of hypoxia, which meant nearly 850 million losses for the municipality, and I'm gonna miss this revenue again next year. They've done this to the other settlements, and we're gonna have a lot to talk about. For my part, I can say that it is a shame, a separate shame, that you are shortening the local governments in the field, while Lőrinc Mészáros is stocking his right and left pockets with the taxpayers' forints. But not only did they take money, they also took powers from the municipalities. Construction powers were taken and relocated to government offices. What does that mean? This means, in particular, that as of 1 March 2020 the municipalities have virtually no say in what they are building in their territory. Total nonsense! Isn't that why we elect congressmen and mayors? I think so. Technically, what they did was that during the epidemic, a lot of investment was classified as such a priority investment in the national economy. This is, by the way, something that the united opposition must eliminate in the first instance at the time of the change of government, because it is nothing but a classified robbery and the looting of the environment. Basically, from now on, to get this highlight from a project, the municipality has no say in it. But it also happened during the epidemic, and we talked less about it, and I met this phenomenon in Herceghalom, that if a given municipality, during an emergency, imposes a construction ban on its territory, then investors can simply ignore it, because you think it will help restore the economy. Total nonsense! From here on out, investors can practically do whatever they want, a government doesn't even have this last straw in its hands, because there's an epidemic. Excuse me, what does this have to do with the virus? Nothing. This has to do with the fact that the interests of people and investors can prevail against communities, while conquering nature, the environment, where we live and where we live our daily lives. I think it is quite clear that Fidesz does not want and will not represent communities at any level, does not support anyone in representing communities, local people, on the side of neckless installations, which means that neither infrastructure nor public services nor transport can keep pace. You are robbing this country in cash, and your actions are also about robbing this country in its territory, giving space to the installation and businesses without necks. What I can tell you is that there's a virus, there's an epidemic, there's a situation, but what you're doing on the pretext of this is a shame, and the extension of the emergency is exactly what it's all about, so that you can do it completely freely until the election time comes. Ladies and gentlemen. Shame on you!
u2021-11-30-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who indicated that he wished to live in the house rules 36. The right to speak as provided for in paragraph 11 of Section 1. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett is leaving the Chamber. Nacsa Lőrinc: It's easy to argue that way.]] the right to speak as provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article. (Dr. Bernadett Wind is leaving the Chamber. Nacsa Lőrinc: It's easy to argue that way.) You have the floor in a 15-minute time frame, Mr. President.
u2021-11-30-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor in the general debate on the bill on certain regulatory issues relating to emergency situations because the bill concerns the institution of teleworking, to which the Court of Auditors has published analysis and analysis on the one hand, and has its own operational experience as a result of the emergency. The emergence of the Covid-19 epidemic has made it of paramount importance to maintain the continuity and effectiveness of work while ensuring the protection of human health. In recent years, there has been a period in the months of the epidemic when this has exceeded 10 percent of the total number of employees. The main tool for maintaining continuity was the use of digital tools from people's homes. This has raised new organisational, technological and legal challenges in all workplaces and has highlighted the wider social context of distance and home work. The Court therefore examined the subject in depth and, as I indicated, in our analysis published in January this year, the analysts assessed the opportunities and challenges, including difficulties, the wider use of teleworking and home work, and the experience gained from the epidemic and their impact on the world of work. In a few points, I'd like to sum it up. Firstly, monitoring the results of work is increasingly highlighted in the management of distance and home work, so that the central role of fixed working time can also be lost. This also meant a shift in the content of the employment relationship, instead of making it available, the result will be the focus. This requires high-quality management and management work, and therefore, where necessary, training and development of management work should, in particular, be required in terms of planning, coordination and evaluation of the performance of the worker. On the other hand, the relaxation of the spatial constraints of work can improve employment in groups that were less able to participate in the labour market in terms of the deterioration of transport, housing or other living conditions or health conditions. If you think about it, an average of one and a half hours per day in Budapest is the only one who doesn't have to go home to and from the workplace one day. Thirdly, the employee's management is an elemental requirement for all work. I therefore consider it important to highlight the provision of the bill that the employer exercises his right of coordination and control from a distance, using a computer device. Here, I would like to refer back to the quality of management work, and I would like to draw attention to the need to develop digital skills for the future as well. In this context, the security of the employer's data is also a priority because of strict data protection and data security requirements. We can say that remote and home work poses an increased risk to data security. It is the responsibility of employers to manage these risks in an appropriate manner. Fourthly, standards for working conditions in our home and housing should be supported by appropriate rules. Work from home also raises mental health challenges, and the success of the new form of work requires greater attention to the psychological health of workers. The Court's analysts suggested that, in the long term, a controlled and predictable combination of work from home and from the office could be an optimal form of employment. The bill also applies this approach when it is said that in the case of teleworking, the worker does the work in some or all of the working time in separate places from the employer's premises. This can be useful to prevent the worker's separation and alienation. Some workers have not been able to work full - time because, for example, they have been unable to stay away from their families because of the care of children or the care of elderly relatives. As meetings, conferences, day-to-day work, a wide range of training courses continue online, they take place, so workers do not have to spend long days away from their families because of these occasions. [[15.00]] Therefore, teleworking as a flexible form of employment is also a family-friendly legal institution. This is particularly true because of what I have already mentioned, i.e. workers can save considerable time by not having to travel home to and from their workplaces every day. I would also like to point out that teleworking is increasingly developing between countries. Regardless of the Hungarian economic situation, in Western Europe it is becoming more and more widespread in the wider corporate community that the actual location of the companies and the place of work are hundreds of miles away, possibly thousands of miles away. This will have a fundamental impact on the situation of the entire labour market. Today we can see, as has already been said here, that Hungary is facing any problems at the level of individual families, either at the level of employees or at the level of the institutions, but more and more people working abroad are looking for work in Hungary, or are working from Hungary for their former foreign or new jobs. I used to tell my colleagues that it was a brand-new, XXI. This virus situation created the urge to enter the century. What are the short-term lessons of this, whether for next year or beyond, for the post-virus period? It is certain that the possibility, position, practice and technology of teleworking creates a completely new environment for workers and employers. It is important that Hungarian legislation also prepares the market environment under legal conditions and, on the other hand, create conditions for competitive adaptation. Dear House, The expansion of telework is still affecting a number of sectors, which I will not discuss in detail now, but a few are mentioned. We may not even think about it, but the possibility of working at home can also have a significant impact on the real estate market. Investments, real estate development have started and can start with the aim of creating a comfortable working environment for all working members of the household in the family home itself. And from the change in property prices, it can be seen that as a result of the closure caused by the epidemic, more and more families are looking for their homes outside the big cities in the agglomeration, which means that they are getting further away from the actual place of work or the previous location. We can see, therefore, that the transformation of employment has much more significant changes in our environment than that it is no longer necessary to go to the office or work at the workplace. In addition to the situation on the real estate market, think of the possibility of working abroad, the possibility of working as a part of the family's busy workers, or even the refocusing of the associated transport organisation, which results in a number of changes in plans, development and behaviour. The parts of the bill that concern teleworking are therefore necessary and timely provisions, which I hope to have been able to provide useful experience on the basis of the Court's audit and experience. I also point out that, as has been the case so far, the Court of Auditors will continue to keep the topic of distance and home work on its agenda. On the other hand, of course, the emergency appears as a more complex topic in the SAO's life. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are also trying to provide a background for your work on the subject of the macro-economic, employment, training, e-government and e-commerce, and to draw attention to it. Thank you for listening, thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-30-88	Thank you very much, President László Domokos. Dear Parliament, We continue our work with speeches. I am giving the floor to István Apáti, an independent Member.
u2021-11-30-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with my fellow Member, Mr Dóra Dúró, I would like to stress that not only the vaccine procurement contracts are unknown, but also the side effects and consequences. Don't you think it's strange, honourable members of the government, that a simple antipyretic or pain medication has the following breakdowns: very common, common, rare, very rare? For a simple antipyretic and painkiller, this is known to patients or to those who use these medicines occasionally or regularly for any reason. And vaccines with which more than 60% of the total Hungarian population has been vaccinated are not known. If you don't believe me or our country movement, then believe one of your well-paid men, Mr Slavik, who told you a few months ago. I could also say that if Mr Slavik didn't pay attention a little bit, he would be telling the truth. Because he has made a full, exploratory confession in that it is easy to interpret the current circumstances as a mass human experiment throughout the world. This is a quote from János Slávik. Then they asked him on another show if he would inoculate his own child. He got insecure, he got embarrassed, he was babbling, and then he said no. Take a look at the videos of this. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Hungarian Movement is the only party that has made a consistent position on the epidemic, the related crisis and on vaccination and vaccination issues. On the other hand, you, honourable pro-government Members, are only consistent in one thing, in total incoherence. We don't have to think about doing a speech in Parliament or speaking at an event to the Hungarian electorate, saying, "Oh, my God, what did we lie a few weeks, months or a year and a half ago?" We are consistently saying the same thing in November 2021 as we said in spring 2020. With regard to vaccinations, we have always said that we should leave each person to their own personal decision whether or not to be vaccinated. If you don't, we'll respect that, too. We're the only couple who's never hurt anyone's feelings for getting vaccinated. We respect that decision. Just as we expect respect for the fact that if one chooses to do so because of these many uncertainties, amazing inconsistencies, more illogical wordings and statements, they should do so because of epidemiological experts, political leaders, state leaders are insecure and they do not want to be vaccinated. They should also be respected, should not be discriminated against. And that is an old trick, which has long been characteristic of both the Fidesz-KDNP administration and the Balliberal side in the last thirty years, in this respect it is unbroken that tensions and conflicts are usually delegated to the level of local governments or employers and workers, so that they can fight against breaking lines there. Let unpleasant, difficult, unpopular decisions be made by mayors, other city leaders, or even employers against their employees. There are not enough break lines between the voters and voters in this country, and here on a humping basis let another fault line be formed between those who have been vaccinated and those who have not been vaccinated. I just don't know why that's good. Moreover, the government and the Balliberal side are very similar in this regard, as is the fact that they are pushing the pro-vaccination campaign unilaterally, and they are not even willing to ask questions. In fact, they are trying to sweep off the table the questions, the arguments, the reasons why millions of Hungarians should be vaccinated with unknown substances. Just as the risk is remarkable and the damage is incalculable in connection with the missed diagnosis and the associated missed treatments. [[15.10]] We don't know, maybe we're just guessing how many of our countrymen have died and it's gonna cost us even in the coming months, because you can't see when this covidic period is gonna end. After all, yesterday Minister Rogán made statements about the possibility of the fifth wave, at least with regard to the reference to the fifth wave. This can cause deeper and more serious concerns. As an interesting question here is that you have actually taken on the political posture of a university instructor who does not want to formally overthrow the student, but will deliberately ask a question that the student will not be able to answer. So they do not formally require people to be vaccinated, but they create a situation, or they bring tens of thousands of Hungarian families into an existential crisis or work crisis, that unfortunately, many people have no choice but to take vaccinations with unknown side effects and unknown consequences, despite their better conviction, doubts and concerns. Have you dealt with the issue of liability for damages, honourable members of the government? So, if there is evidence, say, of a causal link between the serious deterioration, permanent damage to one of the vaccinated people, the death of God and the vaccination, then to what extent does the municipality, the employer or the Hungarian State commit to this? It's not possible to give back damaged health, lost human life, it's impossible to express in money. Still, are you going to make some well-defined, rule-based, obvious liability to the naked eye for what you're pushing people into? The easiest thing to do is explicitly or tacitly, straightly or slylyly. But do you take any responsibility for it? Political, professional, human, health or compensation? Apparently not. Our Homeland Movement finds this extremely outrageous. Just like the lack of work you're not trying to handle or alleviate, but throwing the reins between horses, it's okay if there's barely any health care professionals left, it's okay if there's barely any teachers left in schools and doctors and nurses in hospitals, you're still pushing them through. I would recommend this to the government representatives again if, for some reason, it were worth starting a freedom fight in the view of the Hungarian Movement, it is precisely a war of freedom against the new world order, to confront the emerging new world order of which some prominent representatives have already called attention! That the era of epidemics would follow. They're not talking about an epidemic, they're not just talking about the evolution of the coronal virus epidemic, they're using epidemics, they're using plurals, Bill Gates just named the terrorists as their main culprits. Who knows, then, that would mean that the masses of pathogens of unknown origin would be unleashed on mankind for the next decade or two? And then will you always commit millions of Hungarians to more and more vaccinations and more illogical measures? So it would be worth thinking ahead of the era of epidemics if we use a plural number to prepare more thoroughly, once this country is involved in this situation. Here is an interesting question, which clearly shows that in this very important issue, which not only determines the lives and future of generations of Hungarian people, but also the future of mankind, you do not dare to go against the new world order as much as you could on the basis of their social authority, and this is to avoid the idea of epidemic solidarity tax in a large scale. Our Hungary Movement is the only party that has been demanding the introduction of this new tax system for months. The Crown Virus crisis has caused invaluable damage in Hungary, which can be forinted, perhaps in thousands of billions. In addition, there is now an election budget, which, of course, is once again a major advantage for some of the Hungarian people, but it seriously puts a burden on the budget. These resources should be created. It should come from a place where there's plenty of money. Where's the money for that? In vaccine manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies, multinational retail chains and techs that have made amazing profits over the past year and a half. There would be plenty of them to take away in the order of thousands of billions of forints. Of course, it takes a lot of courage, especially a few months before the elections, to impose an epidemic solidarity tax in the face of these companies and giant companies with a high level of interest. Interestingly, they do not take this into account despite the constantly extended emergency situation, although in the extraordinary legal order they could otherwise find a solution, but somehow, as a vampire with garlic, they avoid it in a large way. This is so embarrassing, they obviously don't want to open another front. However, if we consider the past decade as a period of permanent freedom struggles, it would be very important to oppose the new world order and to impose an epidemic solidarity tax on the tax collectors and beneficiaries of the coronal virus epidemic, who have been rich in human suffering, pain and misery. So far, they have not been scarce in resources, but in the past year and a half, their profits have increased tremendously, thus increasing their influence and advocacy. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it would be good to pay attention to the warning signs, the risks, the side effects, and the adverse consequences that arise in millions of Hungarians. I would also like to pay tribute to the fact that Mi Hazank Movement recently organised a meeting in front of the Constitutional Court, an event which was attended by far more people, by magnitudes, than the number of people involved in the left-wing movement on 23 October. After all, more and more Hungarian people are asking the questions with which I started my speech, and what I am forced to repeat towards the end of my speech, in case at least some are willing to take this into account, they are willing to think about it. In a simple Algopyrin package leaflet, you will find out more about the side effects; the side effects of vaccines that inoculate millions of people are often already known for the third time, nothing is known about what is common and what are rare side effects. If it's all so well, why wouldn't the pharmaceutical companies, the vaccine manufacturers, dare to make it public? Or if you really represent the interests of the Hungarian people and are not afraid to go against these big companies, why not demand either the means of lawmaking or the means of law enforcement? Why don't you go public with these side effects? News from a few minutes ago, you can see on the Internet that one of the pharmaceutical manufacturers has made public about the new variant that it is likely that the impact of vaccination on the omicron variant will be significantly reduced. So this variant hasn't even arrived yet, but they've already explained the poverty certificate well in advance, and they're averting their responsibilities in advance. In fact, they are similar to the government, because you feel that you are only responsible for success, but are not willing to take responsibility for anything else. We therefore call on you to change this position and to promote normal information, so that millions of Hungarians can know the true composition, side effects and risk factors of vaccines. Thank you very much. [[Dóra Dúró applauds.]]
u2021-11-30-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Abbot. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga, notary, representative of the MSZP.
u2021-11-30-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is not the first time that we have discussed a similar proposal for the control of a coronal virus epidemic. Unfortunately, we have had this epidemic for over a year and a half, and we are now living in the fourth wave, and obviously we all want this epidemic to end as soon as possible. In fact, the government has had all kinds of powers over the past period to organise protection as effectively as possible. We have said several times that health and social workers involved in defence, but those who are involved in protection in all areas of life are obviously engaged in heroinic work, they must be given great respect and be surrounded by respect on our part, on the part of opposition parties, but we are debating certain specific decisions of the government. [[15.20]] There has been a great deal of talk here from my opposition colleagues, obviously from the destroyed PCR tests, to a very detailed description of the measures that have been controversial on your part over the past few years. I myself may have mentioned most of the decisions made in relation to the municipalities. I would like to say this briefly again in part, in fact, on the basis of recent weeks, unfortunately, without much hope that they will correct anything in this cycle. As has been said here, a large part of the local government's business tax revenue has been taken away. During this period, the motor vehicle tax was completely removed from the municipalities, the public support for public transport was abolished for rural municipalities, and it was evident in other areas that the municipalities were not necessarily considered to be partners in the defence, as the other Member States of the European Union, where appropriate, considered practically without exception, but as an area in which the local authorities were squeezed, and were deprived of revenue, freedom of movement and resources on the basis of the coronal virus epidemic. The local government, of course, is an abstract concept, and it is much better to put it in the way that it happened when we point out simple city management issues. So the car tax, let's say, will be missing from the road renovations, the loss of business tax revenues may be missing from simple city operation tasks, which people rightly expect to have in order to be an orderly public area, to have the grass mowed, to have a settlement, to have a city. And the removal of public support for public transport at a time when, by the way, it is precisely necessary to place greater emphasis on public transport not only for environmental reasons, but also for the protection of the epidemic, well, then such a decision is at least questionable. I have had several motions over the past year and a half to change these issues, in fact with a view to reaching consensus; so it was obvious that you were not open to this. No opposition motion was opened on this issue, and therefore, after a year and a half, a summary remark can now be made that the protection against the coronal virus epidemic was used as a veil to conduct a campaign against the municipalities. The problem is that this campaign is, in fact, a campaign against people, because there are people and Hungarians living in the territory of the municipalities and in their working environment, who simply want to get along. So I consider this to be a very big mistake, and I see that they will not change that, in fact, for reasons of scope, I am not talking about all the parts of their proposal that will continue until 1 June 2022. Moreover, it appears that, as a consequence, this condition exists in the campaign itself during the parliamentary elections. What I can say is that, in the interests of the people, the resources and leeway of the municipalities will be restored to the next government, we hope, supported by today's opposition parties, and we will undertake to do so. The law is very diverse, as it usually is, it opens up a lot of legislation. Finally, I would like to talk briefly about a proposal here, in fact the 19th. This is described in Section 2 of the Act, which has absolutely nothing to do with this matter, but is not the first such area to amend a law or regulate a situation of life that has nothing to do with a coronal virus epidemic. It's 19. In fact, it amends in relation to the determination of trade union representativeness, in such a way that it will cancel its full performance in 2021 so that this process of representativeness is repeated from the first quarter of 2022. So, in fact, in a few series of amendments, you decide to do so, thus throwing away a full 2021 task, from March 21 to November 21, in fact, this work was carried out in a tripartite manner in each of the service providers. It is the work of many institutional leaders, but by the way it is the work of trade union secretaries, and obviously it is on the basis of this that the influence of trade unions can actually be judged in one area, and many other trade union rights are linked to this process, which has been a decisive process for 15 years. In the last nine months, this has been dealt with by local government notaries, so much work has been done. You are now giving a simple reason why this issue is being dealt with in this way, and you are saying that this amendment is necessary because of changes in legal status. Well, the problem is that the trade union side drew attention to this in November 2020 that this will be a problem, that the trade unions concerned have made proposals on an ongoing basis, and that they have made such proposals before the start of the process of representativeness in 21 years, and have been on the agenda ever since. In fact, this amendment will only be able to complete the representativeness process in December 2022. I would stress, therefore, that this unworthy procedure is also a good example of what you want to do in one of these salad laws with a pen stroke from your point of view, by ignoring the work of thousands of people; in fact, completely meaningless or in any case, it would have been prevented if you only paid attention to those involved in such a matter, let us say, a year ago. So this has not been done, and there is, in fact, such an otherwise ineligible stage of this proposal. I believe that, together with this, many of my fellow Members have said the problems of the opposition. I share a very large part of these, and I am deeply sorry that it was not possible to create a situation in which the government exercises restraint, using its special mandate to deal with the epidemic situation in this period. Because if that had been the case, then, I believe, there could have been consensus in a lot of decisions here in this House. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-11-30-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Kara, Fidesz.
u2021-11-30-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I promise I'll be brief. As a Fidesz MEP, I patiently listened to the entire debate, listened carefully to everyone's sentences and arguments. The point is that most of those who gave their opinions and expressed their views on the law did not want to talk about this bill, they did not want to discuss something, they did not want to discuss it, they made a statement, and as soon as they said their comments to the exception, they left the Chamber. I would like to say to all of you who have been watching, watching the course of this conversation and debate, that this bill is about extending the emergency situation until 1 June 2022, and a number of important detailed rules are regulated by the bill that help people's everyday life and their daily lives. And the reason why the government has submitted this bill is because the new variants of the Crown Virus, as I have said, are spreading with unprecedented speed and consequences across Europe and the world. So there is a situation in the fourth wave, where the situation is even more unpredictable, and this needs to be answered even more effectively and to provide the country with an increased adequate ability to defend itself. That is the purpose of this bill. And compared to that, there's been a lot of talk here, just let me respond to the last part. This is a very important issue, said several opposition representatives on the left regarding the municipalities. There is no campaign by the government against the municipalities. Well, it's not like that. [[15.30]] If you look at the events of recent months, the past few years, you will see that villages and cities are developing unbroken throughout the country. There may be one exception, Budapest. So I would rather suggest that left-wing parties, left-wing opposition parties, sweep around the House of Budapest and explain to them the extent to which the planned sale of Budapest City Hall serves the people or, to what extent, I am obviously ironic about the issue of the control of the epidemic. So, I think that the left-wing parties, instead of asking people and local communities to apologize for the incredibly crippled and indebted families and local governments between 2002 and 2010, regardless of whether they were then pro-government or opposition, would now give answers to seemingly inexplicable problems in Budapest, instead of talking about saying things that had nothing to do with reality. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-11-30-94	Thank you very much, Congressman Ákos Kara. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes Lóránt LMP.
u2021-11-30-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, In fact, I have already presented our opinion during the debate, and I did not want to comment, but I would just like to respond to the comments of Mr Kara Ákos Fideszes. I am very pleased when a very rare Fidesz Member appears here with the intention of discussing something, so that we do not reveal things, but discuss certain issues. I am taking this opportunity, Congressman, to discuss the fact that, since you have introduced this extremely legal order, you have introduced an emergency institution, with the tone you have said now that you can defend yourself against the epidemic, then exactly how much your actions have contributed to the fight against the epidemic. For example, as the documents of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, the project serving Chinese interests, were sealed off from the public by voting on this project in a crisis situation, how has it helped to protect against the epidemic? Once again, you have made some kind of decision based on classified documents, launched a process for the development of the Budapest campus of the University of Fudan; so you want to build a campus out of hundreds of billions of Hungarian taxpayers at the University of the Chinese Communist Party in Budapest with what relation to the fight against the epidemic? I would also like to ask, honourable Member, that the outsourcing of Hungarian universities, as I was counting 28 current or former Fidesz politicians have packed Hungarian universities in foundations under the leadership, had what to do with the fight against the epidemic? Honourable Congressman, There's no state-owned university left in the country. What did this have to do with a more successful defense against the coronal virus epidemic? Honourable Congressman, We know the budget for the World Hunting Exhibition. You spent more money on the World Hunting Exhibition than you spent a year on the ambulance budget. What did this have to do with, what was the connection to the disease control? Do you personally, Congressman, think this was necessary, to spend so much money on the World Hunting Exhibition and, in the event of such a serious epidemic, to say that all kinds of restrictions and immunity certificates cannot go to the World Hunting Exhibition? Congressman, is that what you think was responsible for protecting yourself from an epidemic? Or that, even in this situation, when very, very many families were in a very difficult situation, a lot of people lost their jobs, Hungarian families were in a desperate situation, then, even using government powers, i.e. the extraordinary legal order, they abused decisions to create the further enrichment of their oligarchs. Last year we saw that you voted in favour of Lőrinc Mészáros's hotel chain with a government decision of nearly 18 billion dollars in support of Lőrinc Mészáros's almost 12 billion dividends from its construction companies. Did Lawrence the Butcher need this support? When we said that VAT on basic foods should be reduced or that unemployment benefits should be increased, they simply argued at the Economic Committee meeting that there was no funding. Was there a source for further enrichment of Lőrinc Mészáros, honourable Member? I have spoken, Mr President, that at last there is a brave Fidesz, who not only comes here to declare but also to discuss issues, and I look forward to the reply of the honourable Member. It justifies these measures, and if it has done so, I think that we should also go into the issues that you are debating, that they would have attacked the opposition-led municipalities, in particular, because I would be interested in the opinion of the Member, but I would be honoured even if he were to respond to these questions about what all this had to do with the control of the epidemic. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-30-96	I'll give the floor to Congressman Ákos Kara for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2021-11-30-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the control of the epidemic, I would like to say two numbers showing the effectiveness of the government's decisions to control the epidemic. With regard to the first vaccinations, Hungary was among the first three European countries where most people were able to be vaccinated as quickly as possible, and most people were able to take vaccination in Hungary, among other things; and you know that Hungary is in the lead with regard to the third vaccination, and these days, in comparison with the European countries, Hungary is in the lead. I think that we owe respect and thanks to all health care workers, to all those who work and fight to the greatest extent possible, to the greatest extent possible, to the greatest extent possible, to the greatest extent possible, to the greatest extent possible, to the greatest extent possible, to the greatest extent possible, to the ability of people to take vaccination and to ensure that protection is successful. We are grateful and thank you, and I think that all opposition and pro-government representatives, too, are doing the incredible human effort and professional knowledge, as workers from various professional areas of Hungarian health or Hungarian health care are doing their job every day. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-11-30-98	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP, for two minutes.
u2021-11-30-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I think that the Member, if he was regularly here in plenary during the debates, could see that during the epidemic, I began speaking before the agenda every week by thanking respectfully for his work on behalf of everyone who is working to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people. By the way, in this debate, I began my speech with this sentence. Indeed, the government has taken measures that have started the vaccination relatively quickly, but unfortunately we see that Hungary is now lagging behind in terms of grafting. And I don't want to repeat my criticisms of where I feel the shortcomings in the government's work, what should have been done and what could have been done by a responsible government in order to increase grafting. You have failed to do so, so unfortunately Hungary is no longer relatively comfortable with grafting. I call everyone's attention here at every possible forum, I suggest to everyone, and I ask everyone who hasn't done it to get vaccinated; and by the way, I have taken on the third vaccination myself, and I think that this is the responsible behaviour. But speaking of numbers, I do not wish to repeat it, Bertalan Tóth explained how many people have unfortunately been victims of this terrible epidemic in Hungary. However, I think that we cannot open a debate in that, as Prime Minister said, this is your responsibility, and you have had all the authorizations, and unfortunately, the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary has cost enormously. But I'd like to give you another number, Your Honour. Only during the two years of the crisis, you have spent as much money on one project, the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which you have encrypted, under the auspices of your economic protection measures, out of which 175 thousand new Hungarian jobs could have been created. I think that this is also a number that shows exactly what level this government has been irresponsible and that it has not lived, but has abused the extraordinary mandate. Thank you.
u2021-11-30-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr István György, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2021-11-30-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We have had a relatively longer debate, although this may not have been a long debate in your parliamentary practice. I have tried to listen to the speakers and what they have said. I have to say that I have the impression that it is very obvious that the elections are getting closer to us now, because everyone is giving up their lesson, saying the sentences they have heard a lot, and they think that their political supporters are willing to listen and applaud them for it. Of course, everyone can have their own truth, but I think that, in relation to such a law, which creates a legal order in the context of certain transitional emergency rules, it is not certain that the majority of the contributions are specifically related to this. [[15.40]] Of course, at times like this, emotions always come up, and connections come up, and everyone has their own positions. Let me say a few things that have been said here, and I am trying to comment on some things with my own tools, knowledge and experience, as well as the head of the National Vaccination Task Force, who has been following the vaccination process from the very beginning, since there has been a vaccine in Hungary, on a daily basis, from hour to hour. I think that there are many, perhaps I can say, pointless debates, because we are speaking side by side, we are never going to convince each other of certain things. The thing is, in this government cycle, Fidesz and KDNP have been authorized by the electorate to control the fate of the country, and there will be another choice, and we will see that there... [[Anita Kőrösi: Another government, yes!]] Well, I'm not sure that's gonna happen, Congresswoman, let's be more modest than that. You may even be, but I'm not sure you will. There have been more than just things that you have mentioned in this country, and we will see how wise voters will decide. MEP László Varga spoke about the municipalities, and Ákos Kara responded. I don't want to get into this debate right now. I don't think it's necessary. But what I would like to say is that when we talk about where the resources have been withdrawn from, let me think that there is no normal system of circumstances here, no normal life for the country, no life for Europe and the world, but a pandemic of pandemics, and during the pandemic, there are costs, the government had to establish an economic protection fund, and it is clear that the budget's subsystems and everyone must contribute. The municipalities may, of course, have reason to resent that certain resources that were at their disposal earlier are not at their disposal, but there is now a pandemic, and we sincerely hope that, if we do, this will also be settled, that the municipal funding will also be settled, and that the country's fate and position will return to the old state. The next thing I want to respond to is what Mr Apáti said and what Mrs Dóra Dúró said. Here was something quite amazing for me to listen to their sentences, not because they are trying to convince the two and a half million people who have not yet been put to the stand, that if it will be our homeland Movement that they will choose in the elections, it is natural to be so, but what they say are so far from life that it is absolutely amazing. How can one account for the sentences of the eighth month of the pandemic and what was said a year later? Everything is changing around us, Congressman, and you yourself say that we don't know much about this virus. Why do you expect someone to say the same thing in April 2020 as in April 2021? [[Dr. István Apáti: Because he is a specialist!]] It's an unscientific attitude, and I'm sorry, because the world is changing a lot. The fact that vaccines have been developed very quickly for pharmaceutical companies compared to the way in which vaccines are usually developed in the world, in fact, it is in some view that the development of a vaccine should be the result of 3-4-5 years of research. You know, Congressman, what would have happened if we hadn't killed him for three, four, five years? It's not what you think, and Mrs Dóra Dúró, I'm quite sure of that. The side effects are not listed. Go on the Internet. Take a look at the side effects of the vaccines. There is also a number of reports from the American pharmaceutical authority, WHO, and EMA, when it came to AstraZeneca and other vaccines, that they cause bleeding, and from the rest of the very, very many test materials, the studies have found that this is true, but there are so little consequences for this type of health benefit that this vaccine can produce by saving lives is many times the danger it can cause. Of course, someone can answer that by thanking you, and you won't ask for any of this. We can give you some very sad examples, but obviously you can tell me from the other side that those who didn't take the shots are dating. To account for it, either by a virologist or an infectologist, a member of the Academy of Sciences, who is an expert in your profession, has said something about not having a fourth wave, of course, it is a great courage to declare it on anyone's part, and it has not been so. Well, that doesn't mean it was a lucky statement, of course, but what he did was with the tens of thousands of vaccinations that were organized at SOTE, I think we should all appreciate his work overall. That's the expression you use to say they lied because they said things that aren't true anymore. Of course they're not true, because we're completely different now. When you say about the omicron that the protection provided by vaccinations is likely to decrease or not to be adequate, this is not in my opinion, I respect your opinion, because the pharmaceutical companies will again make a good profit, even because the omicron, as we know, has shown more than thirty types of viral variants in recent weeks that show the spike protein. That is why, honourable Member, and the vaccines developed against thorn protein are obviously being tested, and it is even possible that they will avoid it. I got an e-mail today from a lady who's been vaccinated with three Pfizer shots, and she said she's very much asking us to give her a Sinopharm shot as soon as possible, because she knows that Sinopharm, the Chinese vaccine, is a 70-80-year-old-old, killed viral vaccine in which the entire virus genome is in, not working against the spike protein, but against the whole virus. Well, that is the case when dozens of Members of Parliament sign a declaration and demand that the Chinese vaccine should not be used in Hungary, and then the world will change, Mr. Congressman, obviously the one who signed it, and knows that, say, in two months' time, it will actually be revealed that vaccines developed against thorn protein are useless against this virus variant, but the Chinese vaccine can be used, then they will obviously change their opinion, I think it is not a crime, changing the opinion based on experience. You can see inconsistencies in this, but I don't think it's appropriate. It was also said here in the same sentence, perhaps Congresswoman Bernadett Szél said what a skandalum it was that the powers of construction were taken from the mayors. I've got some bad news, 'cause the building powers have never been with the mayors, ever. The powers of construction were with the notaries, and the notaries exercised administrative powers, because this is how the municipal system was built in 1990, that, in addition to the municipal administration, the former state tasks inherited from the Council system and part of them were given to the notaries. The mayors never had anything to do with these tasks, another question is that in practice, of course, they had no task or competence. You know, Congressman, how many cases I'm meeting in the area of Lake Balaton when we're looking into the individual settlements in which the council, the chief architect, the mayor's view of the settlement and the role of the notary have accompanied me to what happened in that settlement and would be horrified if you could see it? This is nothing more than a reorganization of government tasks. Now, of course, forgive me for saying this to you, because I can't tell the congresswoman, so there's no mention of anyone taking anything from the mayors here. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél also said that she was in Berlin and was tested free of charge, and what a great thing that is. [[15.50]] I remember the summer news that in Germany and France, they pay off tests for people who aren't vaccinated. The other issue is that the Germans have actually come back from this anyway, but the world is changing, and they are trying to exert pressure in different ways, obviously, by state leaders, who feel responsible for fighting this virus and pandemic in their country as soon as possible. To this end, decisions are made naturally, and consistent decisions are made. Austria is here. Several of you have told me how much you disagree with mandatory vaccinations, and so on. Otherwise, there is no general compulsory vaccination in Hungary, the general compulsory vaccination is already announced in Austria from 1 February. But we do not live in Austria, I understand that, let's talk about Hungary! Thank you very much for the sentences of Mr József Szolga, who spoke for Croatian ethnicity, and I listened carefully to what he said. There's an anomaly here about regulation, and we're going to look at it, and I can promise you that. The fact that we are fighting with our uninoculated fellow humans is not true at all. Prime Minister used to talk on Kossuth Radio, obviously you don't have the pleasure or the occupation on Friday to listen to this, I heard the last one special. He spoke so humbly of those who are not vaccinated, he can understand that, and the rest, but the fact remains that the epidemic situation in the country will improve, that is the clear position and the clear opinion of medicine if the graft is increased and we can reach an appropriate level. We're gonna get the criticism from you, and I'm gonna tell you, as head of the vaccination team, what we're gonna do with where we were this spring, because that was, but where we are now. Please, the Hungarian health care and the Hungarian public administration, as long as they were workers, were in the lead in Europe, we were in the second place behind Malta, and we would still be in the second place today. Four million people were vaccinated by the end of April. This means that if 4 million in 4 months, the infrastructure would have been able to inoculate 8 million people in 8 months. Why didn't we inject you? That's because people didn't come to fight. Portugal is 89 percent vaccinated, which means that the country is 100 percent grafted because it has about the same population as Hungary, and there are about 1.1 million children there. If you count them, they're 100% vaccinated. I do not want to question the validity of Portuguese data provision, probably so, but the southern peoples are able to show such an attitude. Each country has its own socio-cultural orientation, its own opinion on a particular issue. We had 5.5 million grafts on the glass ceiling, which we now slowly push over our heads. It is a pleasure to have organized this vaccination week. To that congresswoman or gentleman, I'm sorry, I can't turn to her right now, who said, "Well, well, since you said you didn't have to register, maybe someone responded. It's not about it, you have to register locally, but you don't have to register on the Internet in advance, it can be on paper. Now, as of today, it's over 850 grand, so maybe we'll get close to 900 grand with the shots by extending the vaccination week. It is very important that we are able to give the third vaccinations, because we have seen them in Israel, who are otherwise 62 percent vaccinated, and 68 percent received the first and second vaccinations against all other celebrities, but 62 percent received only the first vaccination, but 4.3 million received the third vaccination. When they completely broke down the fourth wave, they took it back to the origo line. Now, unfortunately, it's rising to some extent again in Israel, but it's not because everyone here is lying, and everyone is trying to mislead everyone, and we're killing people with chips and stuff, but because the virus is mutating, the vaccine can't provide immunity for just four or six months, and there might be a mutant against which there's nothing. Death comes up all the time. It hurts us that so many of our countrymen died in the corona virus. There wasn't a press conference where we wouldn't have started by expressing our condolences if we could just say that all the time. So the statement you made here, Congressman, that we forgot to offer our condolences is far from true, we did it much sooner than anyone else, because we could do it on our own initiative. Otherwise, with average mortality, we are in the middle of Europe. We do not want to compete with anyone in this, but if we look at how the average mortality of the last five years has turned out, we are somewhere in the middle of the Member States of the European Union; we are not happy either, we are obviously looking at the reasons. The state of health of Hungarian society, the prevalence of certain diseases, diabetes, and the rest of them can all be reasons, but I don't want to go into that. Obviously, this needs to be examined, and we need to do everything we can to protect ourselves even more effectively. Congressman Zoltán Varga said that health care is on the verge of destruction. Everything can be said, of course, and then Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány said in his Facebook post, when he went to the vaccination, that everything went like a crash, the health workers were excellent, but the government was unable to control the vaccination process. They say from opposition what you must say. We've been working as a team all this time. If the regional administration with county vaccination teams had not been at the forefront of full vaccination logistics at national level and had not organised it, hospitals, outpatients and general practitioners would not have done their job, the soldiers, the police would not have helped the job, and many others, whom I have not mentioned now, would not have come out of this vaccination process. And again, Hungary had all the ability to inoculate 8 million people by the end of August, even 12 million people this year, but we are not so many in the country if the willingness to stand up was the same as it was in the first four months. And what was an advantage in the first four months began to turn back because, in the case of those who took the two vaccines, the six months have passed since vaccination and then the alpha-variant was in Hungary, and now the delta is in, obviously, the scientific experience has already said today, contrary to what was said earlier, that after four to six months, the immune response is unfortunately no longer the same as after vaccination, and it must be confirmed by another vaccine. Science also walks in many cases, in the event of a pandemic, after events, sometimes it can overtake one. It's a little like the Russian teacher after the war, who was with a lesson or two before his student. Of course, there are some pretty amazing results. To develop a vaccine in a year and a half, no one initially thought that a vaccine would be developed in a year. This can be scolded, but the only means that can keep people alive today according to our knowledge, according to the prevailing medical knowledge, is vaccination, so it is from America to Israel, and so it is from Japan to Australia. A lot has been said, and I would not like to respond to it here, because from the filling of pockets to the Lőrinc Mészáros, which I think is being said in every item on the agenda, we will not be able to convince you of much, just as I am sure in other subjects that you will not be able to convince us, nor much of what we have discussed. I must say that the purpose of this law is clearly now to ensure, after the repeal of the emergency government regulations, that legal certainty in the legal order is ensured, the transition that must be ensured in any event in the interests of the security of the legal order, as a result of the emergency government regulations. [[16.00]] I understand, of course, that, with the usual attitude of the opposition, you do not wish to vote for an extension of the emergency. I sincerely hope that the Members of Parliament will do so, because we are in a phase of the pandemic pandemic. We very much hope that we are approaching slowly now, or rather approaching quickly, that the epidemic, the fourth wave, will reach the point from which we will be able to push back strongly, but it will take as many people as possible to take the vaccinations, especially the third vaccination now. But it is equally important, of course, to have the first vaccination, from which, as has already been said here from the parliamentary benches, over 100,000 have been delivered in the last eight days. This is also very welcome, and the total of more than 840 000 vaccines is a special feat for those who have understood that vaccination can save their lives in this period of epidemic and, in any case, in any case, their lives. There's also someone who's been through the infection without even realizing it, and there's someone who's uninoculated and going through it, but there's also someone who's dying, and unfortunately, you can only say that afterwards. I wouldn't risk it if I were anyone. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-30-102	Thank you very much, Mr. István György State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Before the next item, I am ordering a four-minute technical break and handing over the chair to my vice-president, Dr. Brenner Koloman. (Sunning: 16.02-16.07) President: Dr. Brenner Koloman Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dr. László Varga)
u2021-11-30-103	Dear Parliament, We will continue the meeting and also welcome my fellow Members with respect. There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain cultural and other laws until closure. The government referral is T/17669. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor again.
u2021-11-30-104	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In preparing the bill before us, the government was guided by the intention to make practical and technical amendments to certain legislation, mainly on cultural subjects, as well as to health, higher education and human policy. Dear House, Allow me to explain in more detail some of the amendments proposed in the bill before you. The government strives to provide the highest possible level of health care for Hungarian citizens and to ensure that the care is as balanced as possible. In view of the still unexplored epidemiological diagnostic symptomatic characteristics of new coronal virus diseases, the large number and range of complications and residual symptoms in many respects, it is of the utmost importance that health data on new coronal virus diseases and therapies are available together and available and analysed by professionals. The operational tribe operating during the epidemiological preparedness set up a clinical pathology task force to carry out research that has been sick in the coronal virus and to assess the clinical and pathological results of the deceased in the most precise way possible. For these investigations, it is essential to use the Pandemic Assessment Registry file and, in conjunction with this, to amend the Act on the Management and Protection of Health and related Personal Data. The amendments to the Health Act are also outstanding along the lines of the health proposals. [[16.10]] These aim to create the conditions for horse therapy and training in the field of the provision of horse services to disabled and injured persons, in order to maintain and increase the number of rider therapists and horse parasports professionals in Hungary. The high level of training of professionals working in this area is also important because there is an increasing need for this from families and institutions that have children with disabilities. Dear Parliament, In the framework of the bill, we are also proposing to amend the so-called Artistic Law. The acquisition of priority and national qualifications for a performing art organisation means the highest professional quality classification, which can be obtained after years of compliance with strict professional criteria. However, inclusion in this circle represents a certain position for a total of one year because, according to the legislation in force, professional indicators should be re-examined each year in terms of performance. The question of the maintenance person is an objective but less professional qualification aspect, and therefore it is necessary to ensure that the outstanding public service performance of performing arts organisations certified in previous years is not damaged by the loss of their qualification simply because of a change in the maintenance person. I should like to refer to the provisions of the bill before us on cultural heritage protection. These forward-looking proposals serve the protection and sustainable use of our memorial sites, linked to our national and historical memorial sites. The National Assembly has so far declared 20 sites of national monuments in Hungary, as well as one location, the National House and its surrounding area. According to the government's decision, there are currently 55 historical monuments in Hungary. However, historical memorial sites do not currently fall within the scope of the permanent reservation and preservation scheme at national memorial sites. In order to maintain our memorial sites in a dignified manner, it is necessary to extend the law on the protection of cultural heritage to national memorial sites, so that the central budgetary resource can be provided for them. The budget support may be used for events such as preservation, renovation, development, the presentation, dissemination and promotion of the national memorial site. In addition, in the case of two national memorial sites, the area of the memorial site is specified in the present bill. On the one hand, the New Cemetery of Rákoskeresztúri National Grave Park would expand its national memorial site with the prison cemetery in Vác, Márianostra and Sopronkőhida, which would not, however, mean an increase in the number of national memorial sites. In addition, the area of the National Monument in Győr is changed with two properties, the Hotel Conference and the Visitor Centre of Szent László, which are currently part of the national memorial site, but this is not justified, since they do not have such a function. As a minor amendment, the bill also aims to unify the rules of the memorial points and to integrate them into the system, as well as to assign the memorial points to the National Memorial and Cegeleti Committee, since all other tasks related to the memorial points are carried out by the committee and the Institute of National Heritage. Dear House, I would also like to draw attention to the amendment of the law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. According to the Government's decision, a further 5-5 per cent increase is required in 2019 and for three years thereafter for law enforcement officials, i.e. law enforcement employees, in order to ensure the continuation of the salary increase started. The bill represents the government's decision to establish the statutory basis for the planned increase of salaries on 1 January 2022. Dear Parliament, The bill also provides for the amendment of the law on national higher education, which satisfies the regulatory requirement in practice related to the university model change. During higher education conversions, it is necessary to clarify certain accounting rules for model-shifting institutions in order to establish a clear legal situation. The proposal also amends the rule on educational work experience in a student home maintained by a community trust, recognised as a professional higher education experience and experience, in view of public-service trust foundations. The justification of the amendment is shown by the importance of educational and talent-care activities among the public tasks carried out by public-service trust foundations. Continuing this thought process, allow me to discuss the establishment of the Foundation for Hungarian Culture, as well as the justification for the amendment of the law on the grant of property to the Foundation for Hungarian Culture and the Petőfi Literature Agency Nonprofit Limited Liability Company. The Foundation for Hungarian Culture was set up as a public-service trust fund with the aim of making the funding and support of cultural strategic activities more effective. In order to carry out these tasks as a public task, the Foundation will own the Petőfi Literature Agency Nonprofit Limited Liability Company, which in the meantime has been transformed, and its successor will be Petőfi Cultural Agency Nonprofit Private Company. In addition to performing the existing tasks, the public tasks of the Hungarian Culture Foundation through the PKÜ can be further expanded on the basis of this bill, as well as the properties of Nyíregyháza and Szolnok will be owned by the PKÜ, which will serve as the venue for the implementation of the creative houses of light music in the future. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In conclusion, taking into account the need to adapt to changing circumstances, it is important not only to take the necessary steps in health, but also in cultural, higher education and human policy areas. For this reason, I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the spokespersons.]]
u2021-11-30-105	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who indicated that he wished to live in the House Rule 36. The right to speak as provided for in paragraph 11 of Section 1. You have a 15-minute window, Mr. President, please.
u2021-11-30-106	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to comment on two areas within the agenda, on the one hand, concerning the part relating to public bodies and, on the other, on the accounting changes of the model-shifting universities. At the plenary session of 29 April this year, I gave you information on the audit experience of the Court of Auditors concerning public bodies. Then I said, I would like to quote two sentences:. The role of public bodies is of particular importance in the professional areas in which they operate, they perform public tasks, in many cases they exercise professional and ethical supervision over their members. I can tell you that some public bodies perform a public service mission granted by the State and entrusted to them, which is also linked to the compulsory payment of membership fees by the members, which, in the end, does not wish to submit to the Parliament's control function as a means of taxing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, let's see what's going on. As the bill also concerns the status of certain public bodies, I consider it necessary to report the results of our evaluation to the Parliament. The reason why I can report results despite the possible negative assessment of the preliminary indications is because the public bodies concerned were cooperating during the audits, although most of them did not recognise the Court of Auditors as an audit body. I can quote that from their written letters. Dear House, In Hungary, public bodies are established by the Parliament with legal provisions, but the Parliament also has the right to terminate them. The supervision and control of public bodies is a mixed picture in our country. Legal oversight of certain public bodies shall be exercised by ministers as appointed by the executive authority or by designated authorities. [[16.20]] At the same time, legal oversight is primarily professional, focusing on the performance of the main tasks and the performance of the activities, the adequacy of the internal regulatory instruments issued, while not affecting the management of public bodies, the transparency and accountability of the use of financial resources provided for the performance of the public mission. For this reason, the control of the management of certain public bodies has been almost untouched in recent decades. In order to exercise the control function of the Parliament, the grounds of the Fundamental Law state the following, and I quote: Parliament can exercise control powers only directly, and the Fundamental Law therefore makes the State Audit Office responsible for carrying out this task a stand-alone institution. Thus, the Court of Auditors' activities, which fill the above audit gap, stressing the creation of a more transparent and improved public service mission, are set out in Rule 17/2021 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. confirmed by Parliament's resolution of 16 June 2005. In the decision, Parliament stated that, in order to facilitate the functioning of the well-managed state, it would support the strengthening of its advisory role in addition to the audit and analysis tasks of the State Audit Office, with a view to improving public finances, improving public service performance and strengthening public confidence, to which the State Audit Office can and intends to contribute, in particular, an advisory, monitoring-type evaluation of public bodies. The purpose of the monitoring is to provide a current picture of the area under control and to provide an opportunity to address them by identifying shortcomings in the process of monitoring. Monitoring controls focus on the whole range of organisations operating in the same legal environment or on a specific area of a large number of groups, and monitoring controls can therefore significantly increase the audit coverage. During the monitoring exercise, the State Audit Office does not require the auditors to draw up a plan of action, nor makes any findings, but, on the basis of their commitment, promotes the implementation of positive public financial changes already at this stage of the audit, in the context of advice, by requesting immediate action at the second stage of the audit. What do we got? At the same time, the Court of Auditors assessed the regulation of the operation and management of 30 chambers not listed in the register of the National Court of Justice, the Hungarian Bar Association and its regional organisations, the Hungarian National Bar Association and its regional organisations, as well as the Hungarian Chamber of Experts on Justice, the Hungarian Patent Chamber and the Hungarian Executive Board. For the performance of their tasks, the resources shall be covered by the membership fees or contribution fees collected from their members. The Court's assessment covered the basic conditions for the proper, transparent and accountable use of resources, focusing on the relevant documents of the public bodies in force at the moment. The evaluation has been carried out. As a result of the evaluation, it was found that 15 public bodies of 30 public bodies have provided for the establishment of a basic regulatory framework for operation, but 15 have not; 21 public bodies have established a basic regulatory framework for farming, but 9 have not. The establishment of a basic regulatory framework for operation and management is an essential condition for transparent and accountable public bodies, transparent functioning and management of members, while ensuring public confidence. Only 21 of the 30 public bodies had reports during the period assessed to ensure transparency and accountability of their operation, their financial and income situation towards their membership and public opinion, i.e. 9 do not. The improvement of public bodies' responsibilities and the strengthening of public confidence must be an ongoing criterion, thus strengthening citizens' confidence in the functioning of the State. With this in mind, the Court of Auditors has already made a call during the evaluation, addressed the heads of public bodies and gave the opportunity to correct the shortcomings for the future. Following the call for attention, we could say that it is good news that the 20 public bodies, although they have continued to indicate and contest the legality of the Court's audit, have taken action. In their case, the improvement of public service performance can be achieved through the removal of previous shortcomings, but 2 public bodies have not taken action, despite the call, to launch positive changes, but 18 have. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what we have just said in the audit of public bodies, it was not obvious to some that the Court's audit of the legislative authority was also linked to the provision of public tasks. In view of this, I would like to indicate that the evaluation has been carried out, in addition to the dilemmas, as well as today's publication of an analysis of the activities of the public notaries and executives, which can be found on the SAO's website. Dear House, The bill also concerns the accounting management rules of the model-shifting universities. In order to implement the change of model and to ensure the maintenance of universities, Parliament also made significant national assets available to foundations and higher education institutions. The provision of the bill which provides that the value of the share to be shown in the balance sheet of the public interest trust fund's accounts is attached to the value of the equity shown in the balance sheet of the university's accounts for the same balance sheet date is supported by transparent and accountable management of assets. This regulation is indeed a substitute, and we consider it particularly important that the circumstances of accountability with wealth are improved by this draft law, at least that is the intention; if it is voted on, this will provide a real opportunity for improvement. It is perhaps less known that the Court of Auditors will monitor the audit of these universities separately at the moment of the transfer-over. I would also like to mention the experience of this, that the audit experience shows that this is important to stress that, prior to the change of model, the higher education institutions concerned have typically failed to ensure the preservation and protection of national assets serving the public mission, which have also been a problem of asset settlement for many decades, so it was justified to do something to strengthen the framework for the exercise of ownership rights. As the President of the Court of Auditors, we call to the attention of the Presidents of the Board of Governors concerned in every case, where the evaluation has already been carried out, and we would like to call again in the future, as a task that has not been exercised before must be confirmed each year within the framework of the Foundation, which, I think, requires very serious attention, responsible management and management from all members of these bodies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-30-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Balázs Simon Róbert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-30-108	[[He's pinning his microphone.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry about the technical barrier. It's just that the wire and the microphone are a little messed up. So thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us is actually a salad proposal, given that it contains amendments to 20 laws. For the first time, and perhaps most specifically, as one of the Vice-Presidents of the Cultural Committee of the Hungarian Parliament, I would like to talk about changes in the cultural field. [[16.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, the law on the protection of cultural heritage contains the concept of national and historical monuments. So far, the National Assembly has declared 20 sites in Hungary to be national monuments, as well as one location, the Parliament and its surroundings, a prominent national memorial place. According to the government's decision, there are currently 55 historical monuments in Hungary. However, historical memorial sites do not fall within the scope of the permanent reservation and preservation scheme at national memorial sites. Therefore, in order to preserve our memorial sites in a dignified manner, it is necessary to extend the regulation of the law on the protection of cultural heritage to national memorial sites, so that the central budgetary resources can be provided for them. The proposal includes, on the basis of the unanimous decision of the National Memorial and the Cemetery Committee, the expansion of the National Cemetery of Cákoskeresztúr with the inmate cemetery of Vác, Márianostra and Sopronkőhida. This does not increase the number of national memorial sites, but only since 2012 the national memorial site, national memorial park and Kis fogház will be expanded with three additional locations. At the request of the Győri Diocese, which operates in my single constituency, the names and details of the sites in the area are clarified, the two non-compliant properties, the Hotel Conference and the Saint László Visitor Centre are deleted. The former property, so it is not justified to declare the modern building of the Hotel Conference as part of a national memorial place, and in the latter case the herma of St. László is temporarily preserved there, but it will be returned to its original place in Győr basilica this year, so there is no reason to mention the building of the Saint László Visitor Centre as part of the national memorial site, as there is no other reason for registering as part of the national memorial site. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal also amends the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Arts. The draft clarifies the previously created rule that the ordinary members of the Hungarian Academy of Arts can be accepted from the National Artists by conducting a simplified procedure. The current unlimited right of the recipient of the title of Nation Artist unduly increases the number of persons proposed for the fee and reduces the value of the proposal. Therefore, the amendment aims at introducing that the holder of the National Artist Award may propose a maximum of one person per year for the award. The proposal also includes an amendment to support public body financing for the operation of companies established by the MMA. Dear Parliament, In recent years, there has been a change in the maintenance of certain performing arts organisations, after they have previously been transferred to the maintenance of public-service trusts of performing arts organisations, which have previously held public or municipal reservations. Under the Act on the Promotion of Performing Arts Organisations and Specific Employment Rules, performing art organisations with a previously state or municipal reservation cannot be classified as performing arts organisations due to a change in the maintenance person. It is therefore essential to amend the Act of Performing Arts in order to maintain the statutory status of performing arts organisations that have been maintained by public-service trust foundations, and not to lose it because of the change in the maintenance person. The proposal also clarifies the scope of the public tasks performed by the Hungarian Culture Foundation in order to ensure the broadest possible spectrum of tasks, and includes the necessary modifications to the transformation of the Petőfi Literature Agency Nonprofit Limited Liability Company. On the basis of the proposal before us, amendments in the field of higher education include the presentation of the activity currently performed by the National University of Public Service as a basic task at the statutory level and the possibility for all persons employed at the university to receive a wage increase regardless of the legal status, including those registered, controlled and seconded by the National University of Public Service. The bill also addresses the specific situation associated with the simultaneous change of operational models and accounting issues with the change of higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to talk in a few words about changes in the area of health. The disease caused by Covid-19 is a group of diseases of high importance for public health, with a significant burden on society and individuals, against which effective control is of paramount importance today. The proposal provides for the designation of individual patient follow-up as a new purpose of data management for disease registers, and for the pandemic register, the processing of contact code in the personal data that can be identified and the conditions for reconnecting with health data in order to comply with data protection requirements. In addition, it is very important that the legal conditions for training in the field of horse therapy and in the framework of the provision of horse riding services for disabled and injured persons are in order and the statutory powers to do so are also established. The proposed amendment regulates the legislation on horse therapy by establishing that rules on the training of persons engaged in horse therapy are laid down in the Minister for Health Regulation. Finally, it is important to mention that the bill also includes the establishment of legal bases for a 5 per cent increase for law enforcement administrative staff in 2022. As the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction, our faction supports the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-30-109	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Our next lead speaker is Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, who presents the opinion of the Jobbik Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-30-110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a salad law which, in recent times, is perhaps the best character of what we call the salad law, on the basis of which the legislative changes that you are now presenting to this House in a package are linked. It also concerns changes to 20 laws concerning health, law enforcement, cultural and other local governments. I've been trying to find the link that really makes this work, and what's in the background. Well, I couldn't find it, my fellow Members, and it was pointed out, in effect, by the Secretary of State, that there were no amendments that were thought to be tabled to this House at the same time. Of course, such salad laws are always the pitfall of having something that the opposition can, of course, support, and I would like to highlight a few of them. One of these is the classification of national memorial sites. We are very pleased that you believe that there are also memorial sites, historical memorial sites in the country that need more central resources to preserve and develop, and thus include such monuments, obviously not raising their number, but extending them, this is a very important step of national consciousness and Hungarian consciousness. I think that everyone in this House can agree with that. We were very pleased to read that they would keep what they promised, that the salaries of law enforcement administrative staff would increase by five percent. Well, yes, this 5% is a bit of a smile, because we know now, and Minister for Finance Mihály Varga has already said that 6.5 percent inflation is expected in the coming period. So it can be said that, of course, it is very good that they have promised 5 percent, and then they will do so, just as we say, as my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, has repeatedly said, this increase in inflation is eating up. [[16.40]] We would have expected a slightly larger increase in police administrative staff, because you can see what is happening at the police station, the continuous layoffs and the wave of disarmament. I'm sure everyone's looking forward to the promised gun money you've been blaring about in government propaganda, but this 5% increase is proving to be a very small one. In addition, it was hidden in an amendment to the cultural law, with several amendments to the law on home affairs in recent years. Why couldn't this be discussed in that package? This always raises questions of codification in us, because it seems that you have washed it together to amend cultural laws. I would like to draw attention to one more thing. If the law on municipalities has been included in this salad, I should point out that there are two very small amendments. In one of them, I see a positive step forward, when the boundaries of the counties and the changes to the administrative areas of the settlements can be modified not only after the request for an opinion, but also on the basis of opinions. I consider this to be a greater freedom in the case of local governments, and I see that this is a positive move, that on the basis of the opinions, the Parliament will negotiate if such a move takes place. So there are parts of the salad law wrapped in the whole cultural law that are very thought-provoking, and these are mostly amendments aimed at and serving the rescue of state assets. On the opposition side of the House, we have repeatedly said that we cannot agree with the outsourcing of foundations, we cannot agree with the transfer of state property to public foundations. You are proposing this again. This is when the opposition representatives come to the giant question mark about how we can give a good heart to yes, no, or abstention to such a salad law. We know the intention to let them know later that you did not support the bill on national memorial sites, you did not support the increase in the police's salary. Mr Secretary, when will there be a change in this at last, when will the opposition be able to say yes to these proposals if they want to amend closely related laws even in the salad law? Mr. Secretary, that's what I wanted to tell you. I ask you to take substantial steps and make changes in this regard, because there are indeed proposals to be supported in this proposal. But we will see what amendments will come, and then we will have our position. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-30-111	Thank you. I now give the floor to Péter Harrach, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-30-112	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, What is the purpose of such a so-called salad law is clear, since when implementing the legal provisions, there are changes that are justified, and that is the case with all kinds of laws. These are not very important legislative amendments, but rather technical amendments and amendments to facilitate application. Practically everything has been said, so, if you will allow me, I would like to go to some areas in a title only, but I would like to spend a little time with what has been mentioned in all speakers, and which, in particular, is close to me in connection with some of my work, in the amendment of the law on the protection of cultural heritage on national memorial sites, historic memorial sites and memorial points. But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words about the other institutions whose duties are being modified by the law. The Foundations of Public Interest have been maintained by performing arts organisations. These employment rules are protected by the law so that they remain the same in this maintenance change. The regular members of the Hungarian Academy of Arts can be replaced by a simplified procedure by new members of the National Artist's Office. The Hungarian Culture Foundation was also mentioned. The scope of the public tasks performed is clarified by the amendment. I'd like to highlight two from the university area. A situation has arisen with the change of higher education institutions, and this change of model is also about tasks related to accounting issues. Mr President, you have just mentioned this in detail. And now we have reached the area that I think is important, and I believe that all the Members here and those who are not here at the moment consider the knowledge and respect of the national past to be important. Well, this is also served by national and historical memorial sites, as well as the memorial points that are now being amended. This is a three-step system that ensures that we can prevent the rapid rise in the number of memorial sites, as this may contribute to the inflection of the title. At the same time, it gives local initiatives the opportunity to meet, at some level, the whole population of the country, and here I am thinking especially of young people, students, with visiting centres that provide information about the location, persons, events that should be known to young people who are important and who is not important? the national past. The National Memorial and Cemetery Committee has jurisdiction over the designation of memorial points by the law. The one higher level of memorial place, the historic memorial place, belongs in the government decree, and Parliament decides by law to donate the title of national memorial sites. The amendment is also about specific cases, which has already been published in several speeches. The National Grief Park, which we all know, is where the victims of communism rest their graves with the prison cemetery in Vác, Márianostra and Sopronkőhida. This will not increase the number, only the National Grief Park and Little House will be expanded with three locations. It is also obvious that I should mention this here that the political prisoners of these prisons who died there rest in these cemeteries and are concerned about them. The support of national memorial sites has been ensured so far, as the programmes of historical awareness-raising are linked to such support, which is essential. Let me draw your attention once more to the importance of memory pedagogy. But now the law ensures that historical monuments also receive central budgetary resources, of course, with tender opportunities. I hope that the modest amount that is now available will be increased, as preservation, development and funding of various projects are, of course, a source requirement. [[16.50]] Let me make a comment in a sentence on how much the representatives of local educators, municipal representatives and NGOs do to turn these memorial sites into educational and educational work. So what we are talking about, and I would like to conclude with this, is that the three-step memorial system, which is part of the amendment of the law, and part of the law that has been in force so far, serves national memory, memory policy, which is an integral part of the national identity consciousness. I believe that this amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the other amendments to the Cultural Law, of course, also serves the purpose of such an amendment, which is in practice and which meets the needs of practice, and of course we will support it. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-30-113	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I therefore give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who presents the first sentences of his speech in Bulgarian nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Speaker, you have the floor.
u2021-11-30-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited and as a member of the Subcommittee on Public Education, Culture and Church Affairs of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, allow T/17669 to amend certain cultural and other laws. I would like to state our position with regard to bill No 1. At its meeting on 29 November 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary decided to hold a detailed debate on the implementation of the Resolution House Rule 32. § (2) and formed an opinion on the resolution of the House Rule 36. Paragraph 5 of this Article. The Committee supported the legislative package with 12 unanimous votes, which, among other things, amends legislation on a number of important cultural subjects. Of these, the most relevant amendment of the law on the protection of cultural heritage is the 2001 LXIV. amendment of the law. The amendment includes changes to national and historical monuments and national monuments. One of the most important changes is that the declaration of some sites of significant importance in connection with the universal or national public memory becomes a national memorial point within the competence of the National Memorial and Cemetery Committee, making the establishment of national monuments faster and more flexible. Furthermore, it is a significant change that so far the law has allowed only the support of national memorial sites, but the amendment would also provide a central budgetary resource for the sustainable use of historic memorial sites. In addition, the amendment unifies and integrates the regulation of national memorial points that can be established from 2020. In the context of the legislative amendment, allow me to draw your attention to a possible memorial or memorial site in the future, which is of symbolic importance for Bulgarian nationality and many other ethnicities in Hungary. ANNEX II Pope Adoryan appointed Metód as Pannonia Archbishop 1151 years ago in 870 and, like Moravia, allowed the Slavic liturgia here. The two apostles, Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius, who are considered by the Slavic nations as their own church, creators of their own writing, are well known for their workings here, and this is the only place here, in the Carpathian Carpathian arms, where their work is clearly located. This particular place in Hungary is the village of Zalavár, where the Bulgarian state and ELTE were the first to erect a statue together in honor of Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius in the historic memorial park in recognition of the mission work carried out here. ANNEX II Besides St. Benedict, Pope John Paul declared the two saints patron saints of Europe. On the monument the bronze statues of the saints are the works of Frigyes Janzer sculptor. Other monuments were later set up in the memorial park: the Salzburg memorial proclaiming the right to establish a new church, then the monument of the Slovenians in 2005, while the construction of the monument of the Slovaks began in 2007. In 2009, on the 1000th anniversary of the founding of the county in Szent István, the Zala County General Assembly decided to commemorate the Millennium in the most dignified place, the first historic centre of the county. In my speech to the Parliament on 25 May 2021, I proposed to the Parliament and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities to examine the possibility of declaring the Zalavári Historical Memorial Park a historic monument, which would make it a worthy place on the historical map of Hungary. Since then, the presidents of national minority self-governments and the members of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities have already expressed their support in writing, and the head of the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has also issued a statement of support for the declaration of the monument park in Zalavar as a historic monument from a national point of view. With regard to the amendment of the law, I would once again like to ask the Honourable Parliament and the parties to support the initiative of nationalities on the declaration of the Zalavár Historical Memorial Park as a historic monument. It should not be forgotten that there are many settlements in Hungary where there are ethnic origins, but today they have moved, assimilated, but their churches, cemeteries, graves, and memories remain. In the settlements of Hungary we can find monuments, institutions, buildings and tombs that may be of some historical, linguistic, localistic significance to the nationalities living there. In Hungary, the 2007 Government Decree provides for the establishment and registration of official geographical names in the language of nationality. However, since the publication of the Government Decree, these names have not been established and registered at the administrative level. In the past centuries, there has been a natural practice in Hungary to indicate foreign language local names on maps and local names. We also consider it important to have a central register in this area by means of a careful, scientific workflow, because the current register is made on the basis of the displayed tables and not on the basis of a centrally compiled list of localities, as in other Central European countries. In this work, I believe that the Hungarian nationalities, municipalities and the Committee of Hungarian nationalities would also be willing to contribute. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. The amendment of the Act also includes significant, positive amendments to the nationalities that form part of the Hungarian nation, so they are welcomed and proposed for adoption by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2021-11-30-115	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. István György's signal:]] The Secretary of State does not wish to respond. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the leader of the LMP faction, who will give his speech on the agenda with the title of our city, Pécs. Here you go.
u2021-11-30-116	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, after the agenda, I talk about the situation and problems of my country, Pécs and Baranya County, and I do so today. In my speech today, I would like to show what corruption, betrayal and typical fidesz political thinking and action can do to a city, what damage it can do to an area. We know that one of the worst corruption scandals in Pécs' post-convertement history is the Volvo bus purchase that took place in 2014-2015. The point of this was that, according to the decision of the then, most of the Fidesz general assembly of the city, the city bought a bus fleet in the Netherlands for HUF 3.5 billion. [[17.00]] Then it turned out that this fleet could be offered significantly cheaper, hundreds of millions of forints, exactly 700 million forints cheaper for sale, and yet the city assembly decided to do so. I, as a municipal representative, spent a lot of time looking into this case, trying to gather all the information, and a number of internal investigations started on my motion, and then I filed a very detailed report on the case. It took many, many years for the prosecution to finally take place. This has been done, particularly indicted for the crime of economic fraud, which has caused a significant financial disadvantage. I've been getting letters for a very long time as a whistle-blower, that some police department or police department, because of bias, can't do anything about it, and in this respect I'm grateful to the Fejér County Police Department that they've finally started their investigation and that although it's been a very, very long time, we've come to the point where the case is now in court. P. István, then head of the transport company in Pécs, said several times during the procedure that he did not decide on overpriced procurement, but on the Fidesz leaders of the city, who personally traveled to the Netherlands in connection with the case. We know that much later, at the request of the court, a passenger list revealed that, indeed, during this critical period when the European Union public procurement procedure took place, Péter Csizi and Erik Bánki's current Fidesz MPs also traveled to the Netherlands. Of course, we do not know exactly what it is, but it has become clear that it cannot be avoided, it cannot be bypassed the interrogation of once leading Fidesz politicians as witnesses. This was also proposed by the court yesterday, and it was supposed to take place that the former mayor of Pécs, Zsolt Páva, and his deputy, former Deputy Mayor Péter Csizi, and then Member of Parliament, should also appear before the court as witnesses and tell what he can tell us about this shameful, corruption-stricken case. It was shocking, I think, for the entire public in Pécs, that these two former politicians did not show up in court, they saved themselves with various justifications. At the same time, I think it is a matter of time before we can see exactly who the decision-makers of this outrageous corruption acquisition were and who of the former or current political actors, who played a role in this. Obviously, our goal is to give everyone the right punishment for this shameful cause. But it's sad to say it, and it's sad to talk about the fact that it happened at the time of the Fidesz city administration, and it's a huge damage to the city. The city was indebted, and the bus purchase at that time meant billions of dollars in debt, and then, in 2014, Pécs bought a used bus fleet of 8.5 years old. So it became clear to everyone and now it becomes clear that the city needs a new fleet of buses, but the indebted city is obviously not able to make a change of fleet on its own. Therefore, I have put forward proposals on several occasions in order to give the central budget to the city of Pécs enough resources to replace the bus fleet, and it is quite astonishing and outrageous that this was not supported by the current Fidesz representatives of the city, despite the fact that the Fidesz site or the leading side, so to speak, played a role in this situation. On two occasions, I submitted an amendment to the central budget that would have given the city of Pécs billions of forints to buy a new bus fleet, but this was not supported by the ignominious and deceitful Fidesz MEPs in Pécs and Baranya, just as the other Fidesz MEPs voted off. What I can say is that, after the change of government, a partner government has to look at these issues, which in the municipalities sees not an enemy, but an opponent, but a partner, and I am sure that in this way, after the change of government, Pécs can also receive funds from the central budget for the replacement of the fleet. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-30-117	Thank you. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, also applied for a post-meeting speech. The government has an obligation to address the agglomeration challenges. It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-30-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The population of Budapest and its surroundings is roughly a quarter of the Hungarian society, so one in four of our countrymen is affected by the problems of those moving out of the capital, but working there in the backseat. It is therefore time to tackle the long-standing common challenges related to the agglomeration, as hundreds of thousands of people have moved from Budapest to a settlement in Pest county since the change of regime, and tens of thousands of people leave Budapest every year to keep their jobs in the capital. Hundreds of thousands of people looking for green, clean air, garden and yard commute every day, taking on the one-and-a-half-two-hour loss of time that is useful back and forth. 30-40 percent of the cars in the capital come from the agglomeration. This is not only a dramatic number for the agglomeration settlements, but also for the capital, as it brings air pollution and disrupts the balance of working time, destroys efficiency and quality of life through it. In addition, people in the capital region move to places where both infrastructure and institutional supply are much weaker than in Budapest, i.e. young married people who can no longer afford to pay increased housing prices in the capital. The direction is therefore the suburban region, but there is little left of the suburban dream, because the environmental burden resulting from commuting has very serious consequences not only on an individual level, but also on a social level, and unfortunately, the intention to create jobs in many settlements has so far failed; just as the intention of raising funds is to expand infrastructure and institutional frameworks, I am thinking of the creation of kindergarten and nursery spaces here. This has been lagging behind in recent years, even though, for example, more than 8,000 people have arrived since the last national elections. These problems have been solved in some settlements that develop their industrial park, but we are still very far from desirable globally. At the same time, you should be aware that each settlement has its own identity. For example, Érd is mentioned first in a 1243 diploma, but at the same time it may well be described in section XX. and Article 21 (2) (a) The problems of the century were that, until 1979, he became the largest village in Europe with his population of 40,000, then in the Guinness Book of Records. I am not saying, therefore, that the agglomeration settlements should be treated as a coherent mass, my fellow Members, but my proposal is to separate the duty of cultural and infrastructure and institutional development, because these are not only appropriate but also extremely necessary to be treated separately. What do I mean? The fact that the municipalities are in fact asking for nothing but the principle of subsidiarity and some resource creation or, most importantly, to recover the abstract resources that have hit them in recent years. At the same time, we need a comprehensive strategy for infrastructure development, primarily transport development, and we need to talk about the wider area of attraction, as social and transport professionals are talking about the fact that by 2050, half of the Hungarian society will be involved in this issue, since every second countryman will live on this issue until Lake Venice. I therefore urge, ladies and gentlemen, that in the next 30 years we do not make the mistakes that we have made in the last 30 years. For example, the beam structure of the current railway wing lines and as long as the government does not wish to touch it, if appropriate, in cooperation with the leaders of the municipalities concerned, the solution is only sufficient to re-produce the current problems. In order to create a modern agglomeration strategy, it is not only necessary to further develop the M0, but it is also necessary to build a S-Bahn-like circular railway around Budapest in addition to local public transport development, where appropriate, and to be able to create it quickly, so that residents of the agglomeration can work either locally or in neighbouring settlements. That is why I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to start a strategic consultation of the government and local leaders as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-11-30-119	Thank you. At the same time, MEP Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, applied for an after-the-date speech. It's an address. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor. [[17.10]]
u2021-11-30-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thirty-one years after the change of regime, there is general poverty and dependence instead of general well-being and freedom in Hungary. There is general poverty, because three million of our countrymen live below the poverty line, in my narrower country, Somogya, there are particularly many disadvantaged poor people. And let's be honest, with a hundred-thousand-thousand-forint salary, 54,000 forints of public labor, 50-70,000 forints of pension, you can only live by extreme deprivation and raise children, and this situation is not helped by the alms normally distributed before the elections. While some of the country's drivers go out with luxury airplanes, helicopters, luxury yachts, many Somogy people can't even fuel their cars to go to work. Hungary is therefore characterised by general poverty instead of general well-being. But why do the people let this happen? ! And let's see what's going on with freedom. Is there freedom? Well, of course you do, it's gonna be a hell of a lot of work for a lot of money. Is there any way to move forward? Well, of course it can, but not by knowledge, talent, diligence, perseverance and hard work, but by loyalty to Fidesz. It's not freedom, it's dependence, please. Dependence on Fidesz and dependence on the local Corporals of Fidesz, if you will, from the Little Balls and the Overlords. But why do the people let this happen? ! It's not right. And some people talk about it, criticize the system. They will be punished for reaching for them, threatening them, and if this does not lead to results, they will try to make them impossible and ridiculous. Yes, thirty-one years after the change of regime, this can and will be done without penalty in Hungary. Those who are not fidesz are almost treasonous in their eyes, and enemies of the system are rightly trampled and slylyly monitored, intercepted, as we know. But why do the people let this happen? ! Ladies and Gentlemen, But I've got some good news that bothers me about the insolence of theft, the lies, the pompous answers, the stupid billboards, the instigating and hateful messages and the rags of the ruling class, and next spring, you can say no to all of this and at the same time say yes to a better future. That's what I'm gonna do, and I'm gonna do everything in my power to finally live in a normal country and have our children and grandchildren grow up in a normal country. Instead of poverty and addiction, therefore, prosperity and freedom for all Hungarians! Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-30-121	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Finally, I would also like to give the floor to Mr Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, who will address the problems of the Danube-Pilis-Gerecse region. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-30-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to draw the attention of my pro-government colleagues, especially my pro-government colleagues, to an extremely burning problem. Unfortunately, this problem and its benefits also affect my region, but there are many other areas in this country, such as my fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, in Marcali. In the last decade and a half, the number of our countrymen who left this country in the hope of a better life and migrated to Western Europe is between 500,000 and 1 million. Unfortunately, the practice shows that this number is closer to a million than half a million. Obviously, they are economic emigrants, they have left this country in the hope of a higher income, a better life, and, as they say, there is no fence of sausages abroad, but they are paid decent wages for their decent work, and to what extent they are valued in their work. I often wonder whether the pro-government representatives really believe that Hungary can make a living on an average salary. I'm not saying the average here, not for nothing, because average pay is a mathematical, a statistical number that KSH always brings out, no, but the majority of the population doesn't earn an average salary, they don't have a gross salary above 400 thousand forints, but they earn a median, an average salary with a net of around 250 thousand forints. I'm not saying the net for nothing, because it's important for people, not gross, they can make a living from the net, they can buy from it, they can keep a family. We all remember Marcell Zsiga, a former Fidesz representative, who declared, in answer to a journalist's question, that Hungary can live on 47,000 forints. It is true that this was ten years ago, but just as it was not possible to make a living from 47,000 forints, it is not possible to make a living in Hungary on an average salary, on an average salary, young people cannot build a future, and it is very difficult to maintain a family, and there are very many people struggling with this in Hungary today, especially now when food prices are rising almost daily, and inflation is actually skyrocketing. Jobbik has not said for a reason for many years that employers' contributions should be reduced, while at the same time making it possible for employers to give workers a significant increase in wages. For this would be the step that we could take from Western Europe, to lure back those hundreds of thousands or nearly a million young people and, by the way, middle-aged professionals who have unfortunately left this country in the last ten to fifteen years. But instead of going this way, what do you see? For example, I ran into an ad in social media where Nyergesújfalura, which is located in my constituency, but I also met an advertisement in Esztergom looking for Ukrainian-speaking Hungarians. This shows that our region and many other regions in Hungary are already full of Eastern European workers, but otherwise the Asian, Indian or even Mongolian labour force can be found in Hungary because the emigration is so high that the Hungarian labour force simply ran out, the Hungarian professionals ran out, as they migrated abroad. And we can see that Hungarians from Transcarpathia are not coming here, because they are looking for Hungarians who speak Ukrainian, which also confirms that there are a lot of people here in our little country. Make no mistake, obviously we all, all Hungarian people, I think that you sympathize with those who come to Hungary in the hope of a better life in Europe. After all, our people left the country because they went to the West in the hope of a better life, but this process will cause them to continue to generate that they will simply stagnate or even break down the wage increases in Hungary. After all, if the employer says that there are cheaper workers who do the same job at a cheaper rate, then he will obviously be the one who will be employed. This process must be stopped by us, because this is the process that we will never be able to bring home the nearly one million Hungarian compatriots who have left this country, and we must ensure that they can make a living at home, they will receive a decent wage for their decent work. That's why I work, and that's why I'm going to work in the future. Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-30-123	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'm closing the meeting, wishing everyone a good rest.
