u2021-12-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 20th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. I have a sad duty to fulfill by announcing that Csicsay Claudius Iván died in the 74th year of his life. Csicsay Claudius Iván, former politician of the MSZP, obtained his mandate at the 2002 parliamentary elections in the 14th constituency of Budapest, and he was the party's parliamentary representative for a period of time. Under his mandate, he was also a member of the Defence, Health and National Security Committee. He has been a representative of the municipality of Kőbánya for several cycles, his deputy mayor from 1999-2002. In addition to his political and public activities, he worked as a doctor for nearly three decades, of which he was Director General of the Judicial Observatory and Institute of Mental Medicine for 17 years. Because of his professional work, he received many awards and awards. In 1997, he took over the position of Brigadier General and, at his retirement, received the Tauffer Emil Prize. He died in the 74th year of his life. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear House, Szabó Timea, leader of the Dialogue Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2021-12-13-1	As the elections approach, Viktor Orbán and his government's crimes are becoming increasingly interesting. We could put together a complete Blue light transmission just from what's happened in the last few weeks. László Kövér's chief of staff recently found out that he lives in a luxury villa in Buda that was bought with the money of a foundation for Hungarians across the border for HUF 240 million. This organization received 320 million forints from a Chinese billionaire, László Kövér's friend, to help young Hungarians in Transylvania. Compared to this, the foundation stole the money and instead bought Fat's Chief of Staff a luxury fork in Buda. But I could afford A6 Audira, but I couldn't afford those across the border. Despite the serious crime, an internal investigation has not started, and we understand that László Kövér's chief of staff is still working in Parliament. Then came László Kövér's leaked recording, in which he specifically encouraged the secret services to commit a crime, to observe the opposition illegally. There's been a serious crime here, but we don't see any investigation. Then there is the Pegasus scandal, in which we learned from Lajos Kósa that the government of Viktor Orbán bought illegal Israeli spy software to watch opposition politicians and journalists again. Is there a crime here, too? Sure. These wiretappings were authorized by Judit Varga's right-hand man, MP Pál Völner, Deputy Minister of State. The Pál Völner, who has now been investigated by Péter Polt for the crime of bribery. For a long time, Völner occasionally asked for up to HUF 5 million to settle matters with the President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court. And let's just stop here for a second. Pál Völner was a member of the government, who visited Viktor Orbán on a weekly basis at the Carmelite monastery, and even regularly drank with the Prime Minister on a propaganda basis. Völner has resigned from his position as Secretary of State, but he has kept and retained his mandate, and is also receiving a severance payment of HUF 4 million from the government. Four million forints reward and mandate for a criminal who will soon be taken to prison. That, my fellow Members, is not the case! Moreover, in European democracies, it is not possible that Völner's boss, Judit Varga, will remain in place in such a case. In a normal country, the Minister of Justice is released in such cases without his feet on the ground, because if Judit Varga knew about this case, then he is an accomplice, a common criminal, and if he did not know about it, he is only unfit. Well, then go full-time selfie. [[13.10]] Here again, with the united opposition, we demand that Judit Varga resign immediately from his position as minister. By the way, these events fit well into Viktor Orbán's 12-year-old work and the list of Fidesz MEPs, i.e. criminals, he chose. Take, for example, the Fidesz representative of Mengyi Roland, who was sentenced to 4 years in prison in 19 for draining EU funds. Then there is György Simonka, also a Fidesz representative who cheated on state subsidies worth HUF 1.5 billion; Péter Polt asked for 8.5 years in prison. But we can also mention the also fidesze Happy István, who also stole tender money, and the prosecutor's office asked for six years in prison, confiscation of property, and a ban on public affairs. Or there is also the Fidesz Farkas Flória, under whom the Roma government embezzled 1.5 billion HUF of funding, even the EMMI acknowledged this. [[Lajos Rig intervenes.]] Völner, Happy, Simonka, Wolf and his associates are specific criminals who are still sitting in the fidesz benches. Viktor Orbán and Fidesz run a criminal organization in the House of the country. Viktor Orbán's criminal organization steals, listens, observes, lies. They observe the opposition, and as it turns out, not only the opposition, but even themselves, their closest ally, János Áder, and his circles, were intercepted with Pegasus. Well, what kind of government listens to even the opposition and its own circles? ! I'll tell you what kind of government it is: the one that's terrified, the one that's panicking; the one who knows that it's gonna come out next April; the one who knows that Rogán Tóni is not gonna be able to change that, and the City Hall is not gonna sell fake cases, CIA or any other nonsense. Because we are not the criminals, my fellow Members, but you: Viktor Orbán and Fidesz are the criminals. That's why you're going down in April. Merry Christmas.
u2021-12-13-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-3	Thanking you for your kind wishes, honourable Member, over and above cynicism, first of all, I would like to assure you that I will answer you, you don't have to expect anyone to classify you as an idiot just because you asked, and you gave your opinion, as you did with a journalist a few days ago. [[Szabó Timea: Not a journalist...]] Only because he dared to ask you. You're talking about wanting to live in a country where a journalist can ask questions, and you're doing it in the most rude way, if you really ask questions. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Just the usual left-wing hypocrisy...
u2021-12-13-4	It's not your word! [[Szabó Timea: I don't understand!]] It's not up to you to handle it, please. Try to act like a grown man. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Those are tough words, Mr. Speaker. Szabó Timea intervenes.]]
u2021-12-13-5	As far as the case of this foundation is concerned, the foundation does not receive government support, and we have already discussed it here, so it does not involve government authority. In the Pegasus case, the Minister of the Interior provided all information according to the law. [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] As far as the former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice is concerned, the prosecution has requested the suspension of his immunity; he supports this and has asked the Parliament to issue his immunity in a letter. Obviously, during the procedure, he could not perform his duties, so he resigned. [[Szabó Timea: Representative's mandate?]] Let's hope he clears himself during the procedure. This case draws our attention to a fundamental feature of Hungarian public life, the fact that the right- and left are completely different to the issue of responsibility. [[Deterioration from the dialogue benches. Szabó Timea: Well, that's for sure!]] There is no consequence on the left when the leg of lawlessness hangs out, and it is quite clear that something serious is being done, but there is no consequence. If corruption techniques, redistributive procedures, drug use and other underground activities are discovered among the left-wing leaders of Kispest, then the actors will remain in their seats and there will be no consequences. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The company network around the MEP of the Momentum receives HUF billion from EU funds; a number of serious irregularities are suspected around it. There's already a procedure and there's a consequence? No, you don't. Nothing! Instead, the Congresswoman is regularising the country she should be representing towards Brussels. Then, to continue, around City Hall, I quote Gordon Bajnai: Sharks appeared [[Szabó Timea: Uh-oh!]] Sharks hungry for prey. They'd take the property, they'd talk about a commission system, and how these left-wing business circles would entangle all left-wing parties. Consequences, fellow Members? Consequences, that's nothing. Why would there be any consequence of anything on the left? where Ferenc Gyurcsány continues to give the beat, who, in addition to getting shot at his own people, [[Gergely Harvesto: Are we doing this again?]] based its own assets on questionable privatisations. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't know where you've been asked to yell at all the time and who you represent. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties: CIA!]] But one thing I would like to ask you: if you want to do something to protect public funds, I would ask you to do so with the same activity and possibly in the same style in Kispest. [[Szabó Timea: Péter Polt...]] In the City Hall area or in the middle of the Momentum bullshit. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and While we're here, I'd like to tell you one more thing. Your candidate is talking more and more about some social groups in the country in an unqualified manner. I quote a few of them: uninformed, unlucky, deluded, stupid, kept in the dark, fertilized mushrooms, need to be informed, couldn't decipher a crossword puzzle. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Don't be so hard on yourself...]] It's just a few insults that Peter Márki-Zay has allowed himself in the last few days. He was talking about people who don't think the same thing as him. Sometimes we get the feeling that if Péter Márki-Zay saw a stray falling leaf, he'd even smother it. Now I don't know if Péter Márki-Zay has ever apologized for anything during his public career, because he seems like someone who always knows everything better, knows everything better, and doesn't apologize for it. We can hardly hope for such an apology now, but we leave one thing here: lenient pride and insensitiveness are dangerous in any area of life, especially if these are mixed together. [[Constant murmurs and interruptions from the benches of opposition parties.]] Especially when it comes to politics. [[13.20]] You, honourable Member, and the Members sitting across from me do not have a word when Péter Márki-Zay insults millions of Hungarians. That means they agree with him. Believe me, this is gonna have consequences next spring, so let's all take it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-6	I would like to ask you the rhetorical question before I pass on the voice, so please take your seat, so I would like to ask you the rhetorical question, where you have the courage and the authority to yell at the Secretary of State's reply. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] You talk about democracy when you don't give anyone, the electorate, or their representatives the utmost respect. So please reduce yourselves, because this won't work. [[Szabó Timea: Mr. Secretary of State was talking nonsense!]] Please, Congresswoman, stop squirming. [[Defiance and applause on the pro-government side.]] I'll give you five minutes to cool off. At this point, Congressman Crusade will be speaking, and he may be able to take it without saying a word. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-12-13-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that preserving the dignity of the Parliament and giving the Hungarian people the proper respect is possible in such a way that, at least after such a serious corruption case, we could have heard at least one self-critical voice from the government's respondents. Aren't you ashamed, Secretary of State, that the government, after exposing the most serious corruption scandal in the government over the past few months, has not been able to speak to the opposition and a single self-critical voice? The only self-critical sentence he could not give was that your fellow warrior, your fidesz comrade, is corrupt, a symbol of Viktor Orbán's system. You're talking about your faction leader talking about the consequences of such scandals on the right and being able to resign. Did the secretary resign? I welcome the Minister of Justice from here, too, and I have found that she has not resigned. He hasn't resigned after the worst corruption scandal has come to light in the past few days. I think it is particularly shocking that the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, your old Fidesz fellow combatant, has been found corrupt to the core, can be bribed, and it has also turned out that the Minister of Justice has entrusted this corrupt State Secretary with tasks that he could not otherwise have entrusted to him, which basically determines the lives of many people in Hungary. I think that, in such a case, you should have at least given yourself a self-critical voice, even in that situation and in the presence of propaganda, honourable Secretary of State, which underlines the seriousness of this matter. It is slowly ending not only the session, but also the parliamentary term, and I think that it is very difficult, even at the level of listing, to mention the many villains that your government has committed here at the Parliament meeting, which we have seen in recent times, as well as the outsourcing of a thousand billion-dollar public assets, the fidesz control of Hungarian higher education, the service of foreign interests, and the abandonment of Hungarian people in an epidemiological situation. But such shocking actions, even after such shocking and anti-national decisions, can be said after you have framed this parliamentary term with this extremely serious and quite shocking corruption scandal. I think that this case, which has now been discovered, represents exactly what the Fidesz is about, what the system that lied to the national, Christian and conservative is about, what Viktor Orbán's system is about. After all, these people and the actions of these people symbolize everything that is real behind the propaganda about Viktor Orbán's system and which is the reality behind this system. Let's see what the facts are, what the Attorney General is accusing the Deputy Minister of one of the most important ministries. Abusing the position of a senior official for an advantage, he suspects your Deputy Minister of professional bribery in a criminal conspiracy. Nevertheless, Minister Judit Varga did not resign. But we also learned not so long ago that János Nagy, the former Deputy State Secretary for Land Affairs of the Ministry of Agriculture, has now been charged with the crime of accepting bribery by an official and forgery by an official. There was talk of Congressman István Happy here. Your decision is that István Happy will still be vice president of the Committee on Budgets. What are the charges against him? An agreement restricting competition as a two-order instigator, with the crime of accepting bribery, the crime of accepting bribery as a two-order instigator, a contract limiting competition as a two-order instigator in a public procurement procedure, is charged with criminal offences, which to this day can still be served as a representative before the court. György Simonka, also a Fidesz combatant, stands before the court for the crime of fiscal fraud and other crimes, which have been committed in a criminal organisation, which has a particularly significant financial disadvantage. Ladies and gentlemen, Will these congressmen vote here tomorrow on important laws affecting Hungarian people? Are you voting for an extension of the emergency? Is this national, Christian and conservative governance? I think it must have been clear to everyone that there are no values behind you but interests, so your system will end next April. And we can tell you that we will do everything we can to ensure that all the Fidesz politicians who stole from Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation, will go to prison. And I have one more question: when will Minister Judit Varga submit his resignation? Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-8	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-12-13-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You speak of Csaba Czeglédy as your candidate. The people you're talking about here, the people you're investigating, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the people you're investigating, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the people you're talking about, the But some have been convicted, Csaba Czeglédy. Convicted for tax evasion, forgery. And he's under trial for turning a fraternity into a criminal organization. And what do you make of it? Parliamentary congressman. Before that, of course, there was also a candidate for MEPs to gain a few months of immunity from criminal proceedings. Why are you doing this? Or there's Katalin the Czechs. You said it would be more elegant for everyone to make a self-critical sound. Well, how many self-critical voices did you make in your speech about Csaba Czeglédy, about Csaba Lackner or about Katalin Czech? The one with the search warrant. Because it may have used European Union support by saying, on the one hand, that only Fidesz people can use EU funding, but it also cost about HUF 4 billion to the related companies, and it turns out that it is not always regular. I am not only watching the moral part of your application that you say that you are asking for support for the Olympics, while you are collecting signatures against the Olympics, but also that you asked for support for the development of something that had already been established by then, and there is evidence of that. Or the 10-percent commission system at City Hall and City Hall sharks? Shouldn't you have struck a self-critical tone, Your Honour? Why didn't you say anything? [[An uproar on the opposition side.]] Suddenly, what a different tone comes from the benches on the left, how the tone has changed from one second to the next, honourable Members! Obviously, you can be critical of others, but what have you guys had in the last 30 years? What have you had consequences for the last 30 years? He was talking about cases where, when someone is suspected, he takes political conclusions and resigns from his political position, just as Mr. Secretary of State has resigned from his secretary of state, cooperates with the authorities, and will find out at the end of the final court ruling exactly what the decision will be. But did Csaba Czegledy do this to you? Csaba Lackner did that? Did Catherine of the Czech Republic do that? No one has done anything to you, honourable Member. In many cases, there is obviously a need to wait for the end of criminal proceedings, but until then, on the right, there is a consequence of such cases, and you have nothing, but there is no consequence. And those who want to return to power, together with you, honourable Member, who have stolen or cheated a third of the amount of metro 4 in the same way as OLAF, who have built a valley bridge between hills and who have built several tunnels into a hill. And you are talking about, honourable Member, how to behave, who should be self-critical and who should not? He also said that the whole year should be appreciated. Well, all you've done all year is being irresponsiblely political here in Parliament. When the whole world is struggling with an epidemic, everyone is united everywhere, even in countries where you have played such moral strings, where more nationalities form a country, even there they have been able to join together. There were no proposals such as those on your part that banned vaccines, or there were no petitions not to inoculate people with vaccines, which, according to scientific research, appeared in an international journal, we were able to save the lives of 4,000 people in Hungary. [[13.30]] Shouldn't you have given yourself a self-critical voice that the left was disproportionate here and made a mistake when you made people insecure? And to this day, you're still trying to unsure people about the vaccines. Shouldn't you have made a little more self-critical in this matter? Lajos Korózs, whose name the country actually recognized because he shot a chauvide in which he said [[Agnes Kunhalmi: He found out what you lied about!]] That nine of the men sent home from ten hospitals were sent home to know that they were sent to their deaths, that they had shot down a chauvide like this, and then your candidate was single, and at last week's congresses...
u2021-12-13-10	[[Turning to Agnes Kunhalmi:]] Congresswoman! Put on your mask, please, and be quiet.
u2021-12-13-11	... you're going to land near the exits on the left's list. You're saving that man. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Put on your mask.]] One of the biggest attacks on doctors and nurses in the disease management, and he didn't apologize for it! Not only has Ferenc Gyurcsány not apologized for what he said and did in 2006 for 17 years ago, not only has Mrs Bangón and her associates not apologized for what was done in connection with the referendum, whether on 23 October 2006, but no one on the left has ever done this for anything. Honourable Congressman, This year, there would be a reason to conduct a conscience inquiry for the left, but as long as Csaba Csaba Cseglédy is at the top of the list compiled by Gyurcsány [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We can't expect that kind of thing from the left, I guess. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-12	I now give the floor to Gergely Harvesto.
u2021-12-13-13	I'm a little upset. [[Flatline in the left pews.]] Dear House, After all, the country is loud because one of your distinguished State Secretary's colleagues was forced to suspect you, because even he couldn't escape this whole story, just like he did in your other cases. You know what's shocking? No one was shocked at the suspicion, but why Viktor Orbán let go of this trusted Fidesz-kader. It doesn't occur to anyone in this country that, by the way, he's obviously entitled to the presumption of innocence, but somehow no one thinks that this suspicion is unfounded. Everyone's asking why he did it, why not the others. What has Secretary Völner done to deserve the mercy of the supreme leader? And he's been asking about the consequences, who knew about this and how long. What did the minister know, what the Minister of the Interior knew, what the Prime Minister knew, and if they knew something, why did they cover for months for what had happened? There is a real beauty to this story because Secretary of State Völner was a pillar member of the undersecretary choir that we have heard today, which, lying in an indecent manner, degrades the opposition and has a moral face to preach to us. He said things about the executive faculty, which, in the last ten years, has made himself popular: he hated that foreign exchange-credit families were put on the streets without any inhibition. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're the one who's talking about foreign exchange?]] Now, he says about the executive staff:. This is also an essential condition for achieving the government's objective of strengthening public confidence in justice in all possible ways. Here's to you. Public trust in justice. But it was the same Secretary of State, Völner, who was not ashamed to speak to Christianity, who said, "If you live your faith, then you can see it in your actions, and that's the priority, because everyone can speak. Is that what you believed? Is there any belief that it's right to ask for money in paper bags for appointments? I have never heard of this movement of Christianity. The same Secretary of State, Mr Völner, was also the one who signed without blinking the documents on the observation of the privacy of others, who is one of the key actors in Hungary's biggest post-regime observation case, because it is the minister's extremely sharp judgment that characterizes the minister's very judgment; now we know not only against opposition journalists, but not because you, as in all dictatorial systems, do not trust each other. We have just read that the President of the Republic's bodyguard and, through this, the President of the Republic have been kindly observed. If that is true, then it is an amazing scandal, and we can ask the Republican President's extraordinary willingness to sign anything that is being put under his nose is perhaps not related to this keen observational activity. Well, it is this Pál Völner who has now turned out that while he was very confident, he was very nicely, as the secretary of state has now been able to tell us how to live in a state of law, what a decent attitude is, it turns out that, in the meantime, he has a little financial involvement in the register. But he's not the only one among you, that's what you can guess from the press. I have to tell you that we will be looking into all matters after the election, one more, but in April, and your system will fail not only because they are misdirected in this country, because they are only good for a few, and they are bad for many, and not only because they are infinitely corrupt, but also because they are hypocritical in a face toaster. You mock the purest ideas, the family, the rule of law, democracy, and then live quite differently, after which you deserve to fail, and that will happen.
u2021-12-13-14	Mr Répássy Róbert State Secretary is next.
u2021-12-13-15	Honourable Congressman, Mr President, [[Laszlo Varju: Oops! Bence Tordai: Is the paper bag ready?]] My fellow State Secretary has already told you all the important information on this matter, but I would like to reiterate the position of the Ministry of Justice: in Hungary the laws apply to everyone, everyone is equal before the law. [[Tordai Bence: Hahaha!]] [[Tordai Bence: Hahaha!]] [[Tordai Bence: Hahaha!]] The D.A.'s office is doing its job, the D.A.'s office is an independent organization (Bence Tordai: Hahaha!) And in this case and in other matters, you're only acting according to the law. (Bence of Turda: Hahaha!) As regards political responsibility, the State Secretary concerned immediately assumed political responsibility and resigned his office. [[Bence Tordai: Did you resign from your mandate?]] As my fellow State Secretary said, this does not happen in other cases when you are involved in such matters. In the Ministry of Justice, the organisational and operational order is governed by law, by internal and public instructions, according to which the State Secretarys act, so that the Deputy State Secretarys and all officials of the Ministry act. So the operating order is recognizable, regulated and public. As far as foreign exchange lenders are concerned, it is quite difficult for the country to tolerate this criticism from you, as the number of foreign currency lenders increased 40 times during your governance, and foreign currency lending was released during your administration. This government was the government that tried to alleviate the situation of foreign exchange credentials and even substantially improved their situation, the government gave tens of thousands of people the opportunity by adopting the foreign currency-credit rescue package and adopting foreign exchange-credit rescue laws. Honourable Congressman, I ask you to face the facts and sometimes the mirror. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-16	Next up is Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction. I give you the floor.
u2021-12-13-17	Ladies and gentlemen, What is called corruption is practically the main policy of Fidesz, said six years ago by Viktor Orbán's advisor, former leader of the Századvég. András Lánczi has not lied, Fidesz is performing excellently in corruption: they have achieved that Hungary is now the most corrupt country in the European Union because of the Fidesz governments. It's a shame! You are embarrassing the Hungarian people in new cases, and in new cases, Fidesz politicians show that they are cynically lying and stealing from Hungarian people without blinking. But one thing is predictable: when they talk about something, at least one can know for sure that they will do the opposite. They speak of Christian values while kicking those in need of help into a ditch. They are talking about national interests, while they want to form an alliance with Hungarian anti-ultranationalist parties to destroy the Union. [[13.40]] They are talking about fighting corruption, while EU funds are being systematically stolen, and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice has just been accused of corruption. The Ministry of Justice led by Judit Varga and now the Secretary of State were able to cynically claim that the accusation itself is a serious demonstration of the independence of the prosecution. From here, tell Judit Varga it's a mistake. This is evidence of Fidesz's systemic corruption system and hypocrisy. József Szájer, Zsolt Borkai, Gábor Kaleta, György Simonka, István Happy, Roland Mengyi and now Pál Völner's ex-State Secretary of Justice are all about the hypocrisy of this inhumane authoritarian system. They drink wine, but they preach water. Again, shame! Pál Völner didn't have a bad salary, I'm sure the secretary of state will testify. You have made sure that your multimillion-dollar salary increases faster than the minimum wage or average salary. And then you picked up pales from family eviction executives? ! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Shame! Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Well, where are we, fellow Members? ! And after that, you'll pay him an extra HUF 4 million severance pay. It's pretty amazing. At the same time, the minimum wage is hit to one of the largest levels in Europe, with a tax burden of 43,6 percent. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] The Hungarian hourly rate is the third lowest in Europe. The greatest increase in workers' poverty among the EU Member States in Hungary has almost doubled between 2010 and 17 years. In particular, single-parent households, usually run by women, increased from 11.7 per cent in 2010 to 24.3 per cent in these households. They lack people who go to work every day, but if there is an unexpected expense, the refrigerator or washing machine fails, they cannot buy a new one because they have no savings. After almost 12 years of Fidesz governance, more and more people in Hungary are slipping into labor poverty. Under the administration of Fidesz, we have seen the greatest increase in wage inequality between the richest and the poorest. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] And this was not because the Hungarian people would not work well or much, the reason is that Fidesz deliberately weakened the system of national reconciliation, reduced the rights of workers and trade unions, and the increase in salaries is taken away by inflation and the weakened, weakening forint. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz regime has to stop running amok. Three years ago, in order to protect workers' rights, we joined an action unit with representatives of the Democratic opposition parties and took action against the adoption of the slave law. Today we have a real chance of making a change in the interests of the Hungarian people in a few months' time. We will reduce the tax on low wages to keep more money in people's pockets. We abolish the slave law, because Hungarian people are not slaves, only Fidesz wants them to be slaves. We put the system of reconciliation on a new footing, strengthen workers' rights, and provide for those who have lost their jobs with a 9-month unemployment benefit. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Instead of the inhuman, corrupt, authoritarian system of Fidesz, we are building a free, fair, solidarityary, caring Hungary that creates real opportunities for our common future, Hungary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes. Applause in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]]
u2021-12-13-18	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-12-13-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As for the matter of public money, allow me to approach you from a different place than we have done in the last few minutes. This was the government that increased national wealth by HUF 7000 billion during its governance. During your administration, I am talking about the second wave of privatisation, 190 Hungarian companies have been scattered to foreigners or their own buddies, such as the National Book Publisher. This was the government that again increased the share of Hungarian ownership in strategic sectors, such as the banking sector, the media or energy. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: All Lawrence!]] And these, this is good for the Hungarian economy, which is why it can increase by more than 6 percent, and therefore we reduced the unemployment rate to a third. On the issue of poverty, the real value of net average earnings has increased by 70 percent since 2010, with some 15% during your governance, which is a big difference. According to the World Bank's report, in recent years, wages have increased more in the case of 40 percent with lower earnings than in the population as a whole. Thus, according to Eurostat figures, the number of people at risk of poverty decreased by 1 million 250 thousand, not by us, but by Eurostat. Such results are not given for free, they are not easy, they needed job-creating investments, tax cuts and the principle that it is more worthwhile to live from work than from aid. Now I'll tell you honestly, a few months ago, we had the feeling that we couldn't really say anything about what the left's economic policy would look like, now beyond the generals that you mentioned here. We have to let ourselves now that the picture is much clearer now, because, to say the least, Péter Márki-Zay is on a programme tour, and, well, between us, he says rather terrible things. It would abolish the reduction of the rent, it would not support the price of petrol, and now we know that it does not support the minimum wage. Well, does this man support any of the measures that would help the Hungarian families? ! Let's start with the energy prices. We know that the government, this government, protects Hungarian families with official prices. This, according to Péter Márki-Zay, is a stupid procedure, a communist idea, and it is not a goal to stop world market prices at the border anyway. Then let's look at the minimum wage issue. You're demanding higher wages here, and you have a prime minister candidate who says you don't support minimum wage. I can't tell you why you don't support it, but you don't support it. If there were no minimum wage, an employer could give the employee a salary of up to HUF 20,000. There is a minimum wage in Hungary for good reason, not only in our countries but also in other countries; not to mention that the increase in the minimum wage also pushes up other wage bands above it. So, if you're going to be a slave next time, please address it to your new Prime Minister candidate, because it's more like him. And if we hear the sentences of their Prime Minister candidate, then we can understand why you only raised the minimum wage by twenty or a few thousand forints under your government, as opposed to the current increase of 130 thousand forints, which is a big difference; we do not say that enough additional increases are necessary, but it is a huge difference. These plans, your candidate's plans alone, are insensitive, but Captain, as Ferenc Gyurcsány said, will put a shovel on them, because he also gives life coaching advice. He says that if you want to reduce the cost of gas, you need to heat and bathe less, if you find your petrol prices high, you can use your cars together; and you also have an explanation for who would like lower prices, say that they are kept in the dark, fertilized mushrooms. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth intervenes.]] And it's not over, it's not over, because you're saying that whoever takes this on is stupid, and you're saying that only the dumbest people take it upon themselves. There is no social group that will not be offended. Dear Chief of Staff, From here we tell your captain that we are about a few million people, that we want lower energy prices and zero migration, they do not feed us with manure, they do not keep us in the dark, we simply want a country where the interests of Hungarian families are the priority, not the multinationals. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's funny from you!]] A few weeks ago, all left-wing parties practically put this new Prime Minister candidate on a shield, they elected Mr. Captain. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And Captain, he's keeping the course very clear, and I'll tell you where he's going: only down and down. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And you're following him nicely. There is no majority of them in Hungary [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Those who want or insult the Hungarians have never been, nor will they be in spring. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence of Turdai interrupts.]]
u2021-12-13-20	It is now time for the representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-21	Mr President, Dear House, If it weren't for my country, it might even be funny to see the amazing one-legged, one-legged, one-to-one-sided tipping of the cruelest government in Europe about the supposed corruption scandal of its own Secretary of State. Those amazing production reporting arguments [[Csaba Dömötör: Facts, facts!]] The answers you've been able to get away with in two minutes perfectly show how much confusion you have in the force; you have completely priced the possible defeat of the election next year. But while you're trying to distribute and lecture the opposition, think about what you've done. You have been working with the enforcement system above, Völner, Judit Varga and the enforcement system as a mafia-like organization. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] he has robbed Hungarian people in an institutionalised way; low and low pensioners have been looted and minimum wage workers have been looted. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! Shame!]] [[13.50]] And that's why the Secretary of State doesn't stand up, there are no Czechoslovak panels, and he doesn't explain how I'm telling you during the entire emergency of the CDC that I'm talking about very small pensioners and minimum wagers with 33 percent and 50 percent bans. It hasn't even occurred to you. Alleged national, alleged right-wing leave it alone. in the government, the fact that, at least temporarily, the social safety net is woven back into the most difficult situations. I can't believe you guys are trying to lecture anyone after this. On top of a mafia system, I'll say it again, they're supposed to be wasting, and down there, the poorest are being looted. And the thing is, it's assumed that after the eviction of the families, a secretary of state took millions of bucks. Aren't you ashamed? ! How can any of this criminal organization still be in place? ! How do you think that can be explained? ! I understand that politics is completely personalized. I understand that we are all in a bubble of opinions and believe that social sympathy towards Viktor Orbán can be enough for one and a half million people next year. But there is still a moral aspect of this: you looted people, contributed to the mass looting of Hungarian people. They did this during the whole foreign exchange credit thing, where they were able to give discount rates in the case of end repayments, but not to the Hungarians in difficulty, but to the Hungarians, which remained the market rate, collaborating with banks and collaborating with executives. Where is such a government national? ! Where to the right, where to represent the interests of the families? ! And in the meantime, this government steals, monitors, listens, and lies. He's listening to himself. The immediate circles of János Áder are suspected to be monitored and monitored by you or those close to you. Well, it's a paranoid dictatorship featuring all the personality traits of a paranoid dictatorship. You observe each other, what have you achieved in twelve years? ! It's pretty amazing. The director of the witness would be crying for the recipe if there were such a historical situation. Well, where did you sink to? ! Once again, the looting of people is institutionalized down at the ends, and here there is a quotation mark on the down at the ends, and there is paper bag steering going on upstairs. Meanwhile, 33 percent and 50 percent of the executioner's bans continued to spin. The Secretary of State Dömötör does not stand up to explain the record inflation, the record weak forint, nor that during the Covid situation, 80 percent of the wages lost were forgotten to be replaced, but their friends were able to provide support for their real estate investments. That's what the supposedly national government had time for. It's pretty amazing. We haven't heard any production reports, either, Mr. Secretary, and perhaps we won't hear from the Secretary of State for Hate. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] Why the minimum pension is still 28 500 HUF, which, by the way, follows a number of forms of support for families being kept low. They didn't even talk about the freeze on the family allowance. At the same time, we can see that the migration panel can be included, but in the meantime, you call for people to make checks from Indonesia as a guest worker. That is what is in your government decree dated 1 September, my fellow Members. You are trying to put a completely fake reality down the throat of the Hungarians, but this is terribly far from the truth. Upstairs, once again, Völner, Judit Varga, who should have resigned a long time ago, and the executive team is running a pro-state collaboration system, and down at the end, the most vulnerable Hungarian people are being looted. That is why I say that I hope that the government of national unity, which stands up for the future, will brutally investigate all such matters within the framework of the rule of law, and that the person who has to go there will be before the court of history. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-12-13-22	Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, has the floor again.
u2021-12-13-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to describe to you the measures that the government has taken to improve the situation of debtors. By the way, you may know all of them, because we have discussed them here in this House. As a result of the amendment of the laws governing the situation of foreign exchange taxpayers, the so-called foreign exchange laws, the credit institution law and the consumer credit law, the mandatory application of the central exchange rate was introduced. The amount of early repayment fees has been maximized and in some cases the extension of the term could have been without the accounting of fees and costs. The Parliament settled the issues related to consumer credit through the creation of foreign exchange laws and laid down the rules for the settlement required under the invalid contract and provisions, and ensured that the residential properties of those concerned could not be completely emptied during this settlement. With regard to the exchange rate of forints, the legislator took into account the decision of the Curia on the exchange rate risk. In terms of the exchange rate, therefore, the laws settled this issue, and then we introduced the institution of private bankruptcy protection, in which debt settlement is arranged with the aim of restoring the debtor's ability to pay. According to the debt settlement register, 2314 procedures have been initiated so far, involving a total of 6123 persons. Based on the number of cases so far, we aim to increase the interest of debtors and creditors in private bankruptcy proceedings. The government has provided assistance to foreign exchange lenders, the government has declared an eviction moratorium, stopped mass foreign exchange lending, introduced a currency barrier, enabled end-payment, created the National Asset Manager, which gave 36,000 families, or some 154 thousand people, the opportunity to avoid eviction. As a result of bank accountability, the repayments decreased on average by 25-30 percent. As you may have heard, the credit moratorium was extended to those in need by the government until June 30, 2022. Retirementes, child-waiting or educating public workers and individuals whose income has fallen compared to the previous year may apply for an extension. For enterprises, they may apply for which turnover has fallen by at least 25 per cent compared to previous years. The reason I don't talk to you about the CSOK institution is because your party president knows exactly what kind of help it is for families. Honourable Congressman, So what I can tell you is that your accusations are unfounded; what the government has done with regard to foreign exchange creditors and debtors, many hundreds of thousands of families can enjoy these facilitations. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, foreign exchange lenders can continue to benefit from the government's support, and any debtor who is not in this situation because of his own fault will be protected by the government. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-24	István Simicskó Group Leader, on behalf of KDNP. I give you the floor.
u2021-12-13-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are nearing the end of the year, and at this point, all well - feeling people are drawing a balance from the past year or the year behind us. We will also make a kind of evaluation at this time and start the period ahead, the next year, the beginning of the year. We often say that the XXI. The century is a century of challenges, and if we look back on the year that is slowly behind us, we can say the same thing: challenges, threats, threats. Think of the pandemic, of the pandemic, of the growing illegal migratory pressure again. These periods are challenging times for all, for all human beings and for all states. The ability to cope in these situations is an important ability, it also qualifies people, it defines the state and government bodies. This crisis has brought something out of everyone, and I see that in recent times, the government, on the part of the health workers, on the part of the defence workers, on the part of the police and soldiers working to guarantee our external security has brought out the most, the highest: to protect values, to protect our country, to protect Hungary's security and to protect human life. We see the efforts that have brought the Hungarian economy back on the path of growth and strengthening. We see the growth and expansion of family support, the effort that the government has made over the past period and has also undertaken for next year. [[14.00]] We see the efforts in border protection, the government's efforts to keep the overhead cuts. These are all about protecting the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, In such a situation, we have often said, and it is good to confirm to ourselves that, yes, there is a great need for cooperation, for national cooperation. All we've seen in the last year is the constant criticism, attack, delay of the government's work, and even more serious, in the midst of an epidemic, people have been in doubt about vaccinations and many other aspects. Ladies and gentlemen, This in itself, of course, qualifies left-wing representatives, but it is certain that while human lives were at stake and defence increased, we continued to see phenomena, extremely creative, innovative left-wing politicians, so that I can only think about bitcoin production and point out that they are producing a cryptovaluate from stolen electricity, which is a very petty solution and a reaction to the situation. Kamuvideos were manufactured, real estate dogs were launched, in the case of the City Hall in Budapest or even the Kelenföld City Centre in New Buda, we could see that they were trying to start and complete the old proven privatisation methods because of their situation, using local power. The fact is that it has been demonstrated again in times of crisis that left-wing politicians do not serve the interests of the Hungarian people, they did not help the defence, but, as black belt champions of the sale, they want to sell new municipal assets again. The late Prime Minister, József Antall, rightly and accurately said that the left of today, from Marx, only knows the capital. This is clear and clear to all. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me get this straight: while we learned that your leaders, Ferenc Gyurcsány, are working once again and with emphasis on building the European United States, Gergely Christmas is pro-immigration, and Péter Márki-Zay would abolish the reduction of the rent and, more importantly, join forces with the devil. He said this very much and several times. Think about it. A man on his right, confessing to a Christian, would conspire with the devil! When will this be announced? At the time of Advent. He doesn't seek God's help or mercy, he wants to conspire with the devil to gain power. Stunning, honourable Members, it is shocking, especially for Christian Democrats. Therefore, the acquisition of power at all costs. That way, they won't win the election next year. Nevertheless, I wish every Hungarian with a good feeling a blessed Christmas holiday. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-26	I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2021-12-13-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Let us look at the background from an economic and budgetary point of view, that the recovery of the economy was successful, and what is behind it, that economic growth is one of the fastest-growing economies in Europe even after the major global crisis, and that, after the crisis, economic performance in Hungary has returned to the first level in Europe before the crisis. But it is very important to look at employment, because the essence of our fiscal and economic policies was to preserve jobs and, if possible, create new jobs. In this respect, too, the last year has been a success, as it can be said that most of us have been working since the change of regime, and we are also among the first countries in Europe. But we also need to look at what caused the Hungarian economy to be rated in this difficult, critical time. According to the competitiveness analysts, investments have improved, while significant wage increases have been made, pension increases, pension premium, payment of the 13th month pension; the Fidesz government's commitment to maintain the purchasing value of pensions has been fulfilled. And how could the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, have achieved that, in addition, significant tax reductions have been implemented and further tax reductions are expected, which, I think, will be one of the greatest in terms of the performance of the European economy? It is very important how budgetary policy has contributed to this excellent result, the budget has brought an economic growth of 5.5 percentage points with that support policy, and this percentage point will be 8.4 percent this year. So the first and most important aspect of the government after protecting people's health is to keep jobs and protect jobs. However, the budgetary situation and the outcome of budgetary policy are reflected in the fact that, while during the crisis in 2008-2009, when the left was governed, there was no reserve for the country, there was almost a bankruptcy, it was not almost a bankruptcy, and I needed immediate assistance from the IMF and the European Union. We know very well the conditions for the assistance of the IMF, that is the formation of addiction, the management of Hungarian internal politics in Hungarian. This was the result of the Fidesz government, a fiscal policy with a different perspective, that at this time of crisis it was able to mobilise some 30 percent of GDP in order for the country, the economy, families and people to remain operational. This was done by keeping the budget deficit on the EU average, although it increased, as the Hungarian budget deficit was and will be below the EU average during the natural crisis, but also in 2020 and 2021. But if we observe government debt management, it has been successful despite the coronal virus epidemic, as the structure of the sovereign debt has also been transformed, and its duration has also become more favourable, it has changed. The public's involvement in the financing of public debt is significant, as a quarter of the debt is already managed by the Hungarian people, compared to 3 percent at the time of the government change. And that is why we have earned Moody's upgrade in September, which is a significant achievement both from an international and from a global perspective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-28	Mr Gyula Budai, on behalf of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2021-12-13-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Gyurcsány-Bajnai government was the most corrupt government of all time, and the City Hall case proves very well that Gyurcsány and Bajnai's men have taken over the Town Hall. At City Hall there is a commission system under which 10 percent of the value of the property sold should be returned as commission and thus accounted for to Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus. Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus is the key figure in the commission system, which is proven by recordings. I would quote, "The commission system that I, Zsolt, have to pay is only for Ambrus." On November 24, Mayor Gergely Christmas wrote that City Hall is not for sale and dot. Nevertheless, the following were recorded on a recording by Barts J. Balázs, CEO of the Asset Management:. We are talking about what is the building of the old Town Hall, and the plot in front of it, i.e. the whole of what is in the project. This is 4.7 hectares, of which 3.9 hectares are for sale. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[14.10]] The property dump on the left-wing capital is not over here, honourable Members. The people of the Bajnai Gyurcsány era have returned to City Hall, which is why City Hall is full of corruption cases. This is proven on another recording by Gyula Gansperger's statement:, Now Gordon has told me that he has offered two people to the Gergő because they are very close to each other. He offered him two men, Csaba Torda and the Ambrus Kiss. Ladies and gentlemen, Csaba Tordai and Ambrus Kiss were both state ministers of the Bajnai government. Ex-Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai said on another recording: "I know a lot of people sitting there. They were part of my colleague in the Prime Minister's Office or in the government. Then, on another recording, says Gordon Bajnai: "Here, someone smells the possibility of a deal or a business, then everyone wants to put themselves in as an intermediary so that they can ask for a commission. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, The Gergelys of Christmas continue to deny that they would have entrusted Zsolt Berki with the sale of real estate, while Zsolt Berki is the man with the bag at City Hall. According to the recordings released, Balázs Barts, CEO of the trustee, knew Zsolt Berki well. I would quote:, Then Balázs Barts came out before the Zsolt himself, and not only shook hands, but leaned almost to the ground in front of Zsolt. In Hungarian, Zsolt eats from the palm of his hand. Zsolt Berki received the documentation of the real estate for sale from the Budapest Property Management Center. The electronic letters from the trustee fully support this. Such properties were, for example, the HUF 5.2 billion property at the corner of the 2 billion Etele út-Tétényi út, Budapest III. district Vienna Avenue real estate or the XXII purchased by Gyula Gansperger. district Nagytétényi út real estate. After the first property in New Buda, a commission of HUF 520 million, a commission of HUF 200 million for the second property, and a commission of HUF 635 million for the third property in Vienna had to be paid to Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus. Well, if I add up, fellow Members, we're over a billion. Then on a recording, Gyula Gansperger admits that after the property on Nagytétényi út, he gave Zsolt Berki 2 million HUF bribes. There is a mafia-like network operating a commission system in the City Hall, including Zsolt Berki, CEO Barts J. Balázs, Mayor Kiss Ambrus and Deputy Mayor Gergely Christmas himself. The National Bureau of Investigation is conducting 14 investigative proceedings. Today's news is that several crime scenes have been investigated by police detectives. It's an investigation of influence, misdemeanor abuse, fraud, bribery, misappropriation. The investigating authority is expected by the public to fully investigate the sale of City Hall and the related real estate dog. Fidesz calls on Gergely Christmas to resign immediately and leave public life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-30	On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy will answer. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am convinced that in all matters which have so far come before the House, whose job it is to do so. Makes it the Attorney General, makes it the investigating authority, makes it the police. You can break a wand over everyone if the court gives a final judgment on the individual. Otherwise, everyone is responsible for you in this regard. This is what we're talking about today. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Allow me to give you a greater overview of these matters and remind you of your presence in the public domain of this country to remember and recall the past 10 to 12 years and the decades before that. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a very small child, but I lived on 1944-45, and more than that, I survived. When I was a teenager, I took petroleum and one of the lemons that my mother could send to Hortobágy as a relative. In '56 I saw my fellow sportsmen trampled to death with wild tanks, and I saw people hanged on trees. I saw and lived that the vast majority of my fellow sportsmen were forced to leave the country in December 56 and then in January. After that, for decades, I lived in Ozd from Újlipótváros, and I lived by the fact that 180-year-old work cultures are being destroyed, and hundreds of thousands of people remain on the street. Please believe me that this country has been as calm as it has been for the last ten years, it hasn't been for the last hundred years. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You!]] including the two world wars, including 1956. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] Obviously, we're not perfect, you're not perfect. But if you look at how human omissions, mistakes, and sometimes misdemeanors affect the country, you have to state that you can't argue that you don't like to hear previous years, you have sold some 200 companies for nearly 800 billion between 2002-2010, with public debt skyrocketing, with unemployment reaching an unprecedented level. In 2010, we ended the sale of state wealth and said that we declared that privatization cannot and cannot be carried out on grounds of social policy. Property management is only possible on the basis of economic arguments, for the purpose of increasing state wealth. The result was that since 2010, state wealth has increased by over 6,000 billion. At present, this represents some HUF 17 700 billion, a 50 percent increase compared to 2010, while the budget took over some 1345 billion debts from 1900 settlements, took over the burdens of families, helped families as much as possible, and paid our debt to the World Bank and all other international financial institutions. In those decades, you have sold all the companies needed for the Hungarian economy, for the Hungarian society, because you are in a monopoly position because you are in a strategic position because you provide electricity, gas, water and provide full care to households. You can throw numbers at them, but allow one number as a justification for what we say, that, yes, this wealth policy has made it possible to reduce the costs, allowing households to live in peace over the last ten years compared to their income relationship. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In Hungary, electricity costs a third of the electricity today, as in rich Germany. Please note this one number. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-12-13-33	Dear Parliament, Lóránt LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Gergely Kolló, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Csaba Nagy, Fidesz; László Horváth, Fidesz; Anita Potocsányé Kőrösi, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Bence Tordai, Dialogue. Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Péter Ungár, LMP; Zoltán Varga, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Péter Jakab, Jobbik; Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Attila Barcza, Fidesz. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik, Gergely Kolló, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik; János Bencsik, independent; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Csaba Gyure, Jobbik and Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz. [[14.20]]
u2021-12-13-34	Dear House, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the term of State Secretary and the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2021-12-13-35	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. § 2 and Article 204 On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I have stated that Dr. Pál Völner, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, has resigned, with effect from 8 December 2021, and that Dr. Róbert Répássy has been appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice with effect from 11 December 2021. Budapest, 11 December 2021 Sincerely, János Áder.
u2021-12-13-36	Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate Mr Répássy, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that Mr Tamás Csányi, the betterman, has announced a violation of his immunity. The immunity committee examined the application and, in its decision by majority at its meeting on 13 December, concluded that Tamás Csányi's parliamentary representative's immunity was violated by the District Court of Mezőtúri 10. Bpk. 172/2021/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I shall inform the Parliament that I have notified the President of the court of the decision of the committee. I would also like to inform you that there was a motion for the waiver of immunity from the rightful MP Tamás Csányi on 7 December 2021. Bpk. 172/2021/6. I'm a member of the Mezőtúr District Court on a private charge of defamation of defamation. In addition, a motion to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary MP Pál Völner was received on 8 December 2021 by KSB. 4347/2021/4. Against the prosecution of a criminal offence involving the adoption of a bribery by the Attorney General. I gave it to the immunity committee for examination. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted its proposal for a resolution in both cases, so the agenda proposes that we decide to suspend immunity on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that MEPs Lajos Oláh, Gergely Arató, György Szilágyi, Antal Csárdi, Zsolt Molnár, Bence Tordai and Szabolcs Szabó have notified us that they have formed the Budapest Group. I have taken measures to register the group, and I have also informed Members that, despite its name, the notified parliamentary group is the House Rule 6 of the Decision. It does not constitute a political group within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that anyone who has not yet received the package needed to make the declaration of assets can still do so at the reception desk at the entrance to the President of the Chamber. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on an exceptional proposal. The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. Law and Act XLV of 2020 on Retail Tax. T/1788. Bill No. 1. The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, with a consolidated debate on tomorrow's meeting at P/17816. Following the hearing of Amendment No 2, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote shall take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear House, Rule 62 of the Rules of Procedure Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept the T/1788. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 121 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[For signal:]] Zsófia Koncz's machine didn't work, I understand. [[Zsófia Koncz: I voted in favour!]] And the congresswoman voted in favour. Then the number of votes in favour is 122. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be tabled today at 5:26 p.m. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal to change the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the Parliament's proposal for a meeting on 13 and 14 December 2021 should be amended to amend T/17442 on Monday, December 13, 2021, to amend the laws concerning certain asset management provisions and certain asset management and national financial services. Legislative proposal No 1 and T/17437 on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and amending the laws relating to the taking-over of certain public housing tasks by charitable organisations. T/17430 on the Earth Observation Information System and in this context amending certain laws to discuss the Commission's reports and the summarised amendment proposal. The Commission's reports and the items on the agenda following the discussion of the summary amendment are set out in the legislative proposal No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please also vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the P/17816 on international action against migration, the rejection of the post-Cotonou agreement Representatives of the Commission may submit an amendment to the Political Declaration No 7 within three hours of the adoption of the agenda, so that today it is possible to do so at 5:28 p.m. Now, at 2:28 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quickly and quietly if they have somewhere else to do. (Recess: 14.28-14.29) President: László Fat Notes: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dr. Adam Steinmetz)
u2021-12-13-37	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, for today's sitting, I/1782 has asked the DK Group to speak. Document No 121 on the resolution of the House Rule 121 In accordance with paragraph 4 (a), I refused, under my presidential authority, because answering the terms of the interpellation addressed to the Minister of Justice does not affect the role of government. [[14.30]] I give the floor to Dániel Z. Kárpát, the betterman, who submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the interpellation will be answered by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is responsible for the subject. The congressman has the floor.
u2021-12-13-38	Mr President, Dear House, Today, in the context of the supposed very brutal corruption scandal of Völner, the government's idea of zero tolerance on migration arose during the explanation. I am very pleased that this has come up, because the competent Secretary of State can now explain one. You can explain, because on 1 September, Hungary's government issued a government decree that does not change one of Europe's lowest wage levels, nor has it been ordered that Hungary, too, will have an epidemiological crisis in the economy again, make up for 80% of the lost wages. No. The Government of Hungary started in a completely different direction: it concluded cooperation agreements with nine of the countries listed, if you like: the Philippines, the Republic of Indonesia, Mongolia, one of our favourites, the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The Government of Hungary has reached an agreement with these countries on the organised and mass imports of labour. It is quite amazing that 36 jobs are listed here that are expected from Vietnam, Kazakhstan, the Philippines or even the Republic of Belarus. The not-so-surprising carpenter and locksmith can be listed here; the restaurant worker can also be listed, which will raise communication problems and the need for solutions. The meat processor is to be classified here. What is interesting to us is that they are also IT experts and programmers, and in the more developed parts of the world, these people are very often performing in their country of origin the task they can provide to the customer with the help of the Internet. It raises further interesting questions that the Government of Hungary is waiting for chefs and chefs from Indonesia and Vietnam. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Congratulations!]] There is some contradiction in government communication, which talks about zero tolerance in migration by installing hundreds of thousands of workers and inviting us into the country in an organised manner, for whom we are not convinced that there is no Hungarian labour force who can provide these jobs. We also see that zero tolerance has failed you once, when tens of thousands of people were brought into the country for money and gave them the hallway to Hungarian citizenship, but we also see that when organised imports of migrant workers failed to jump this so-called bar. In the case of Hungarian workers and especially young Hungarians, they failed to provide the opportunity for everyone to thrive in their homeland, they held humiliatingly low wages, knowingly collaborating with the relevant multinational companies, they did not develop housing programmes, they allowed hundreds of thousands of workers to go to the West under duress, while working on organised labour imports. Why? How long do they do this, and when will the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian workers finally be put before the interests of your multinational friends? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2021-12-13-39	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-40	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the interpellation. It's not my place, and it's far from me to give you political advice, but I'd like to say that maybe you shouldn't fall for the mistake that one of your bosses has been falling for. In particular, Péter Márki-Zay talks about the fact that the Orbán government is installing migrants on Hungary with tens of thousands of numbers [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: "But if so!"]] When the Hungarian government was the only one to establish a physical border closure in Europe, it was in the European Union to stop illegal migration. It is quite obvious to the entire population of the country that the Hungarian government has done everything in its power to combat migration in recent years. Honourable Congressman, About Vietnam. The title of your question sounds to me like, "Why does the government call the Vietnamese... "The government doesn't call the Vietnamese, it doesn't call the Indonesians, it doesn't call anyone from anywhere. Created a legal framework for [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, sorry! Excuse me.]] to make it easier, by avoiding and simplifying previous extremely bureaucratic and long procedures, to create the possibility for Hungarian employers to bring third-country nationals to Hungary temporarily to fill jobs that Hungarians do not occupy, because there are simply not enough Hungarian workers in certain areas. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Intercom from Jobbik: Chef!]] Honourable Congressman, Allow me some comparative data. In Poland, there are currently about eight times as many third country workers as in Hungary. In the Czech Republic, there are about five times as many foreign workers as in Hungary. In Slovakia, twice as much. So if, in a regional comparison, you examine the extent to which regional governments allow third-country workers to be employed by economic operators, you will find that Hungary is on the back of this list. There are many vacant posts in Hungary today, which for some reason Hungarians do not fill for a long time. I think that this is now an objective barrier to economic growth in some areas of the country, because I could now list a number of production units where they cannot start the second, third and first shift because there is simply not enough people. In response to this economic necessity, the government will create the legal framework in principle that, under very strict conditions, through some of the designated labour agencies that meet the objective standards that the government has set, employers can apply third-country workers, in perfect harmony with our policy on migration, in perfect harmony with European legislation and in perfect harmony with the real needs of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-41	The word is once again for the rejoinder, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-42	Mr President, Dear House, The physical border closure has recovered, but it seems that the financial borders have been opened to the richer migrants. That's what the bonding program was about. The fact is that the Secretary of State insults many Hungarian workers in an outrageous way. Are you telling me that Hungarians do not occupy a cashing, maid, meat processing position in Hungary? What are you talking about? You import thousands and tens of thousands of foreigners into all kinds of jobs, while there are 242 thousand registered Hungarians in the statistics. Mr. Secretary. Why didn't you tell us that hundreds of thousands of them are not getting any benefits from the Hungarian state? Hundreds of thousands of people looking for jobs, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who might work and require free re-training, you don't spend the money on this, but you make a deal with your hiring friends, and you bring in the labour force from an organized stranger. So it is quite amazing that Hungarian people are giving up their interests and choosing foreign multinational interests instead. Shame and shame! We'll change that next year.
u2021-12-13-43	Congressman! You could've used the extra ten seconds to tell me whether you'd accept the answer or not, but I figured it out. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I think it's out there, Mr President.]] So the congressman probably didn't accept the answer, which is what I wanted to say for so long. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting, as has already been discussed. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the Minister of State without a portfolio of tasks and competences for families. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is the end of the year, almost the end of the four-year cycle, and we must also take account of family policy measures. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin with a few facts that you will not be able to deny, because I am talking about KSH data, and legislation determines how these KSH data should be disclosed. Did you know, Mr. Secretary, that family allowance, child, child and maternity allowance last increased in 2008? So 14 years of this year is the same. Did you know that in 2010 there was only three times the difference between the amount of the child and the amount of the child, now more than six times? Did you know that the poverty depth indicator has more than doubled in the last ten years? In 2010 it was 18.2 percent, in 2019 it was 36.3 percent. Did you know that extreme poverty among children today is much greater than it was in 2010? There's a two-and-a-half-fold increase in ten years. In 2010 it was 18.6 percent, in 2019 it was 47,6 percent. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] KSH, please browse, Mr. Secretary. Did you know that more than 50,000 children have been deprived of their family allowance in recent years? Did you know that the social benefits due to the poorest people, the amount of employment replacement support has been unchanged since 2012? [[14.40]] Did you know that the poverty rate of single-parent families increased from 21,6 percent to 28.2 percent in two years, from 2018 to 2020? Did you know that the pension minimum has been unchanged since 2008, at 28 500 HUF? Did you know that we have the greatest income inequality in the Visegrád countries? Did you know that, in proportion to GDP, social expenditure is 6 percent less than it was ten years ago? 22.7 per cent in 2009 and 16.6 per cent in 2019 Did you know, Mr Secretary, that nearly 100,000 children have now been born abroad under your government, not in Hungary, but abroad? We could still list the data, but you are very well aware of these numbers, and these numbers can be used to confirm how good your family policy is. Of course, you will say that you have introduced the family tax relief, but I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that since 2011 the family tax relief has been introduced, neither the family tax relief of single parents nor the three or more children has increased. I only have one question: when will they deal with families in need and give them more benefits? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-12-13-45	Mr. Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-12-13-46	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I've got some bad news for you because in your written interpellation, you told me what I shouldn't answer. The thing is, you have an opportunity to tell me your interpellation, and what I'm going to answer will be my option. I will also answer with facts, and my second bad news is that I will certainly list the measures taken by the government since 2010. But I have worse news: I will also list what measures you have taken before 2010. I also have a request: if you will get a return answer, don't tell me that you are only a Member since 2014, because on December 5, 2004, before the referendum, you gave your name and even your face to the campaign against Hungarians across the border. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He talked about pensions, family support, utility debts. I would like to tell you, as a fact, that the country had already been destroyed once before 2010. I would like to remind you that Ferenc Gyurcsány and his government have already taken away the 13th month's pension from the elderly once. When you steered, you abolished the family tax allowance, destroyed the home-building system, drove families into foreign exchange loans. They have reduced the duration of the plant from three years to two years, and I will also inform you because you have said here about public utility debts, that you have doubled the price of electricity and triple the price of gas during your administration. By the way, they put people in a position where they couldn't pay their utility bills. Let us see, honourable Member, what we have done to you, and I will list only as much as I can spare time. We introduced the family home-building discount, the first-married tax relief, indeed, the family tax relief. We have introduced the greatest home-building program of all time. We introduced the baby shower allowance, your graduate, and from 1 July 2021 we raised the baby care fee from the previous 70 percent to 100 percent of gross salary. In recent years, pensioners have received a HUF 590 billion bonus in the form of a voucher, a pension premium and a voucher for Elizabeth. What you have taken is a 13th month pension, which will be returned to the elderly in February next year, and we have paid them the largest pension premium of 80,000 forints in November. From 1 January, the minimum wage will rise to HUF 200,000. We will return their personal income tax paid this year to parents who are raising children. The minimum amount of orphanage will increase to HUF 50,000, and we will protect the energy prices kept low by reducing the costs. I would also like to inform you that the number of people at risk of poverty has decreased by 1 million 250 thousand since 2010 according to Eurostat data. The proportion of people living in severe material deprivation has decreased from 23.4 percent to 8 percent over a decade, and since 2010 the share of households who have not been able to pay their bills for time has decreased by half. Madam Member, it has also become clear today that your appointed Prime Minister candidate would abolish the reduction of the rent, consider the minimum wage to be redundant and the return of the 13th month pension to be unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It also shows that there are no two lefts. There's one left. What was taken before 2010 would be taken again. We're not gonna let that happen. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-47	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll take the answer.
u2021-12-13-48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't accept the answer. Basically, he had a confession. [[Robert Zsigó: Basically!]] 'Cause he didn't deny any of the data I listed. You know, Mr. Secretary, let me just say one thing: you said that we broke the home-building system. [[Róbert Szigó: That's right! Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] You know, Mr. Secretary, under our government, there was no Secretary of State who took bribes from certain people by evicting families in recent years. The State Secretary appointed executives who then evicted thousands of families and destroyed thousands of companies in Hungary. Well, if someone should be ashamed of the fact that something like this could have happened during their government, while we talk about how they support Hungarian families... then I think we should act a little more modestly in Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-12-13-49	I very much agree with your comment on restraint. Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs with responsibility and competence. Congressman's got the floor.
u2021-12-13-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr House. Dear Secretary of State, In a few months, we'll choose in April. We will choose that you still haven't looked into the election fraud in 2018. We're going into the elections by still not finding out who's responsible for having 341 names in Erzsébet and Teresa cities on the list of a fake party and the names on the Fidesz candidate list. I repeat: in the order of 341 names, the names on the list of the fake party and the names on the list of Fidesz's then candidate, István Bajkai. But there's also a little something, Mr. Secretary. There are nine names that are either deceased or in prison. Imagine what happened: all nine names were on the Fidesz recommendation sheets and on the fake couple's recommendation sheets. I know you've been looking very hard for who might have committed this election fraud, but you haven't found it in three and a half years, Your Honor. If you are serious about democracy, then the purity of elections is one of the most important things, but in three and a half years you have not found out who is responsible for the fact that 340 people on the list of fake parties and on the list of Fidesz are identical, of course, with different signatures. But I'll help you. 'Cause you can say 341 isn't enough, Congressman, that's why we're not punishing you. Do you know why 341? Because when we got to 341 and I filed a report, we didn't get to the end of the check, the police ran out, took all the documents, and we couldn't see if 341 was 500, 600 or more. Since then, we have been unable to find out exactly how many names have been in order on the Fidesz recommendation sheets and on the fake couple's recommendation sheets. Dear Secretary of State, Do you feel ashamed? Of course, they've determined the fact of the election fraud, but they don't know who's responsible. Old saying: See whose good this thing might have happened. But we've been getting used to the fact that over the last few years, you guys like to open a loophole in election fraud. It's not a coincidence that a few weeks ago, they tried to promote the creation of a fictitious home address, preparing for another election fraud. I know they're busy because they have secret wiretaps to manage against opposition politicians and journalists. I know you're busy because Mr Völner has a lot of work to do, he's busy, he's out of town, but he's not from Parliament, he's just a secretary of state, because he's still a Member. Secretary of State, do you consider it acceptable for the government to agree on 341 names in order, and you haven't found out in three and a half years what happened? Thank you very much. [[14.50]]
u2021-12-13-51	Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor.
u2021-12-13-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The law on electoral procedures and all legislation comply with European standards. All Hungarian citizens are entitled to general and equal suffrage in accordance with Hungary's Fundamental Law. The vote is direct and secret, the right to vote is voluntary and free in Hungary. Almost four years were not enough to allow the Democratic Coalition to take note of the results of the parliamentary elections in 2018. I would like to inform you that the report on the parliamentary elections in 2018 was adopted by the Parliament on 8 May 2018, which made it clear that the elections took place in the legal order. The Democratic Coalition didn't take part in the vote. The elections were legal and free of influence in accordance with the basic laws. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The independent body evaluating electoral complaints and objections is the National Election Committee in Hungary. Each representative of the nominating organisations setting up the national list may be a member in the National Election Committee, so the Democratic Coalition could delegate and participate in the work of the Committee. As far as so-called fake parties are concerned, the 2020 amendment of the electoral law ensures that only parties with real social support can set up a party list. With regard to electoral fraud, I would like to suggest to Mr President that you start an investigation into it in the ranks of your own allies. According to press reports, during the opposition pre-election, the candidate, supported by DK, claimed that the candidate of the MSZP had taken a vote to gain an advantage. Please accept my answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-53	I ask Mr. Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2021-12-13-54	[[Without sound:]] Mr President, this is how a man with butter on his head speaks. When it came to light that you were cheating... [[To intervene:]] I'm sorry. [[The sound system is back online. Gábor Bányai: Stop it now!]] Why should I stop? I'm sorry. [[Gábor Bányai: Because you're lying!]] What do you mean, you're lying? ! It's the same in the order of 341 names, Congressman. What's the lie about that? You guys should finally face the facts for once. It is quite clear from the Secretary of State's reply that he did not dare to speak about the matter himself, because he knows that there is no meaningful answer to that, that in three and a half years they could not find out that the names on Fidesz's list may be identical in the order of 341 names on a fake party's list. And, honourable Member, what is the explanation for the fact that there are nine names on the Fidesz list who died or who were in prison? They can't answer these questions. You are talking about democracy, but, Congressman or Secretary of State, as I understand it, you have established the fact of election fraud, but you do not know whose interest it is who did it. Then don't talk about everything's fine; we've established the fraud, but we didn't want to find out who did it. I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-12-13-55	Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. I give you the floor.
u2021-12-13-56	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Government of Hungary was born on 26 July 2019 at 1440/2019. In its decree No.12 of the Government, it decided to establish a document on the establishment of the K-12 Master Salon and the establishment of a long-term strategy for the financing of the cultural, pedagogical and non-teaching programmes of the K-12 Master Salon. Since then, nearly two and a half years have passed, and neither the financing strategy nor the pedagogical strategy can be reached. However, what we do know is that you designed a concert hall in a condominium, and the people in the diner were forced to face great outrage in September of this year, that their peaceful lives have been completely ruined by a concert hall designed for the attic. I would like to inform the Minister that there is already an estate protection procedure, because there is neither complete information nor proper operation of the planned concert hall. During the planned implementation of the investment, the guarantee of the newly renovated roof structure will also be lost, as the renovated roof structure will be opened. But the most painful thing is that the design and all the extra burdens involved in the operation, extra costs will be borne by the residents, and the residents' rights to a peaceful life will be completely lost compared to what has been done so far, as this planned concert hall will operate as a rehearsal room in the daytime hours, and there will be concerts in the evenings, and according to the information on soundproofing, the area will not be soundproofed. It is an inevitable question why the Government of Hungary thinks that a concert hall can and must be built in the attic of a condominium. Why is it necessary to burn 350 million forints of public money in order to achieve this goal? That is why I would like to ask, since HUF 100 million was charged to the 2019 budget and HUF 250 million was charged to the 2020 budget, when and under what title payments were made in connection with the investment, which is also interesting because the information about the works and the residents started in the autumn of this year. There is also a legitimate question as to where the strategy can be achieved, both in terms of funding and in terms of the pedagogical programme, two and a half years after the government decision has been reached. In this regard, I have also submitted a request for data to the Ministry, if it is not available, then feel free to extend the deadline so that they can prepare it in an additional way. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-12-13-57	To answer the question, Mr. Secretary of State Rétvári has the floor again.
u2021-12-13-58	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are opposed to all cultural developments in Budapest, so, of course, this too. Just to see the full picture, it is a building that is currently in place for community functions, so this is not unprecedented, so this attic renewal is not unprecedented in this house. The spirit of the high-quality festival academy and chamber music series, which lasts two weeks a year, will also be made available in the new community scene through performances, masterclasses and talent programs. What's going to happen here? So in a place where this already has a history, there are two rooms with an audience of about 50-60 people, and it will also be suitable for educational function. The project was prepared in accordance with the legal requirements, and the contractor was selected in a public procurement procedure, who, according to information, started its activities in 2021, i.e. this autumn. But you, honourable Member, have opposed everything, as I said, in Budapest, so you have also opposed the cultural developments of the Liget project. There is almost no point, there is no district of the city, Budapest, that they would not try to prevent or have failed to prevent. Of course, you are disturbed by the supposed interference of a supposed sound effect on the others. However, I find it difficult to imagine that a concert hall is designed without soundproofing in it, honourable Member, although you have said such things here, I do not know exactly where you are getting that from. But when there's a different time, he says, for example, about Pride, that maybe one of the most important Prides is today. There you do not mind the fact that it bothers or does not bother the residents of the area what the sound effect and the fuss is about in this part of Budapest. It seems your noise detection receptor is selective, Your Honour. If the government is developing in Budapest, your problem is why you are developing, if you are not developing, you are missing why there is no development here and there. They're totally inconsistent. At a time when one of your fellow politicians evicts the Gypsy Orchestra of 100 members, he does not speak, he does not defend the culture of Budapest, when the development of the Liget project was made, and they opposed it with fire and iron. And when, a few blocks from there, in the middle of Budapest, they'd build a luxury hotel in the town hall, and they'd build an office district, and they'd build the green spaces, when it turns out that, yeah, we have an election promise to set up a town hall park, but in a year's time, we'd build it up and put a luxury hotel in its place, and you'd be perfectly okay with it. If there is an improvement on an existing Community stage to achieve an educational function, a performance function, in better circumstances, then they are protesting it hand and foot, honourable Member. In your district, at another time, when Márta V. Naszály is reported for counterfeiting of the authentic instrument, for which certain items were not included in the budget as previously decided, you will, of course, not speak, honourable Member. [[15.00]] As far as cultural goals are concerned, it is important for the Government of Hungary to promote Hungarian cultural life. So far, we have spent more than HUF 594 billion on large cultural investments and major developments, and we spend much more on culture than the EU average. This is 0.5 per cent in the EU and 1.1 per cent in Hungary. We deliberately devote more to culture than the EU average, because for them, strengthening national culture is an important aspect. This includes both smaller and larger projects. From the rescue of the 100 Gypsy Orchestra to the development of the concert hall and educational venue mentioned by you, we can be proud of the fact that cultural life in Hungary and Budapest is truly flourishing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-59	Once again, Mr. Congressman has the floor.
u2021-12-13-60	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, You've either been misinformed or you're simply lying. In Krúdy 12 there is no history of cultural activity! I think it is completely unviable to create a concert hall in the attic of a condominium, so please respectfully that in parallel virtually 350 million forints of public money will be burned. From 350 million forints, a fully independent concert hall could be created on a separate site. I think that you should not represent me as a government, although you can represent me, but the people in Hungary. I was approached by the people of Krúdy 12 with their problem that the Government of Hungary wants to force a concert hall into the attic. I don't accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-61	We now have Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. I give you the floor.
u2021-12-13-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This summer there was a brief period of grace of a few weeks, a time when we had barely encountered any new infections from the point of view of the epidemic. There's been a few weeks of ceasefire, a breather time to prepare. It was a great opportunity for the government to prepare itself. However, in these few weeks, no measures, no decisions have been taken, no measures have been taken to prepare healthcare for another wave. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In fact, the situation has gotten worse and worse. Before the outbreak, about 25,000 people were on the various hospital waiting lists. This spring, this number was 35,000. By September, this number has swelled to 41,000, and today there are about 50,000 people waiting for surgery and examination. This is roughly the size of a mouse city, so there is a population suitable for a Hungarian city waiting on a list of health measures in Hungary. In addition, your answer in this situation was that every fifth hospital bed was evacuated. This means that there are fewer than 12,000 hospital beds to care for patients, thereby reducing the pressure on waiting lists. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Coronavirus patients are lying on these beds.]] The other catastrophic data, Mr Secretary of State, will soon be able to respond - 15-20 percent of cancers have disappeared from official statistics. Unfortunately, this does not mean that the number of cancers has decreased so much, but it means that this number has disappeared from the statistics, thanks to the waiting lists. It means that more than 5,000 people are likely to struggle with this serious illness at home unsatisfyingly. It doesn't seem to hurt you. The beneficiaries of their system are able to escape the challenges of private health. In fact, billions of forints of PCR tests were thrown into the trash instead of taking the opposition's proposal to massize and free the coronal virus tests. Unfortunately, it is also a fact that according to statistics in Hungary, it is a tragically sad fact that poor people live 5-7 years less than their richer compatriots. So I ask Mr Secretary of State when and by what means they want to reduce the length of waiting lists, to reduce the number of people who are forced to wait lists instead of hospitalisation. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-12-13-63	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-12-13-64	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There is a strong cynicism and impertinence in my opinion, honourable Member, that you, who have committed an assassination against the Hungarian health situation, will begin to shed crocodile tears here. In your time, without a coronal virus epidemic, the waiting periods on the waiting list were much longer than they are now, and you have not even introduced a waiting list register, in order not to know how much. What did you do that didn't shorten it, but further increase the waiting lists? They shut down hospitals, not one, not two, not three. 16,000 active beds have been removed. You were talking about fewer beds now. Because patients with coronal viruses are being treated on certain beds and the rest are being treated with normal care. But they are not out of health care, but in an extraordinary situation, they are treating patients with coronal viruses, as in all countries of the world, honourable Member. So don't talk about it with a drop in capacity. Not decreased capacity, just have to share capacity between coronal viral patients and other patients. But it is outrageous to show this by dropping the beds supplying the coronal virus patients from the Hungarian health system. Such manipulation is rare even from the left. Six thousand medical workers were dismissed in addition to the removal of the 16,000 active beds, who could keep their jobs, and a month's wages were taken from a doctor and nurse. The patients were paid a visitation fee and a hospital allowance, saying that the doctors and nurses would receive it as wages, but the wages were reduced. That was in your time. What did your health minister, Lajos Molnár, say? He said that, after you won the election and continued to govern in 2006, that immediately after the formation of the second Gyurcsány government, it became clear that there was no money, and that restrictions had to be decided. And the biggest withdrawal was health care. When you were in government, you put the country in a state of bankruptcy, and when you had to hold back the money, most of all, you went to health care. And they would do nothing else now, since Imre László said that 45 percent of hospitals in Hungary are not needed. What have we done to reduce waiting lists after about 70,000 people were on the waiting list in your time? First of all, we have introduced the national register, which you have not introduced on purpose, so that this problem is not visible. Until 2019 we spent HUF 41 billion to reduce the waiting list because it was the year before the outbreak, and from this HUF 41 billion we were able to lower the number of people on the waiting list from about HUF 70,000 to about 23-24 thousand. And indeed, during the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary, as in almost every country in the world, waiting lists have unfortunately increased, since those who worked for health care have been transferred to care for patients with coronal viruses and to save their lives, so the delayed surgeries have been delayed. The non-delayable surgeries were performed, surgery and interventions were also performed in situations with long-term health impairment, but there were indeed delays, but this was obviously dictated by common sense, since the capacities in the coronal virus epidemic had to be used to cure those suffering from it. After the third wave ended, the government decided to provide an additional HUF 12 billion to reduce waiting lists. 80 percent of this additional funding should be devoted to the recognition of the extra work of doctors and workers. This way we can work off most of the waiting lists. According to the professional college, hip replacement waiting lists require three-quarters of a year to work off the surplus, and eye surgery takes about six months to work off the waiting lists. But this is still much lower in Hungary than in many Central European countries. If you look at it, in Estonia 200 days for cataract surgery, 49 days for hip replacements in Lithuania 165 days for hip replacements, 88 days for knee replacements in Portugal 230 days for knee replacements, 146 days for average waiting times for us, honourable Member. So there has been some real action. Unfortunately, the epidemic situation has been difficult here, too, but the government has provided additional resources for this work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-65	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the answer. You have the floor.
u2021-12-13-66	Thank you, Mr. President. I would have liked it if, instead of talking about things I didn't ask you about, Mr Secretary, he had responded to some of my specific comments. So it would have been my sincere pleasure to know why billions of HUF PCR tests had to be thrown into the trash instead of allowing Hungarians to see if they had a coronal virus infection on free tests. This is absolutely outrageous! That's impertinence, Mr. Secretary, if that's the word you've used. [[15.10]] The other is that he let go of the statistics on how this waiting list slowly gained weight for over 50,000 people until today. This waiting list hasn't decreased, it's gained weight, it's increased. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: During the plague!]] Epidemic, you say? Well, then, why is it that, despite all your efforts, Hungary is unfortunately at the forefront of the world in terms of mortality statistics and epidemiological statistics? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's not there!]] Why is it that 80 percent of people on the ventilator die in Hungary, according to your statistics, while this number [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In Austria, is 80 percent of them getting better?
u2021-12-13-67	Congressman!
u2021-12-13-68	Their disease management was also ineffective, and their response was inadequate!
u2021-12-13-69	I'm sorry, your time is up. The debate has already been held once.
u2021-12-13-70	Thank you.
u2021-12-13-71	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Balázs Győrffy, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. Mr Balázs Győrffy has the floor.
u2021-12-13-72	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In connection with one of the biggest domestic scandals of recent times, I have repeatedly asked for a word between the walls of the House, which, although realized in agriculture, affects all Hungarian people, we are not talking only about a sectoral problem. Fertilizer is one of the basic ingredients of agriculture, plant fuel, if you like, to determine the results of the crop, and it depends on how much the population pays for the food. Fertilisers are like the price of gasoline, not just for motorists, but also for the price of almost all products. Compared to previous years, the price of fertilizer quadrupled, its cost increased from about HUF 80,000 to 250 thousand, and there is not only an increase in the world market price for natural gas, but also an amazing fertiliser panama, which was recently discovered by the GVH. The GVH revealed a cartel covering the entire domestic fertiliser sector and imposed a record fine of about HUF 14.1 billion on cartels, including in particular the Nitrogénművek Zrt. and its group of companies, who for years have illegally restricted price competition and imports. For seven years, unfair and unethical cartels have damaged not only Hungarian farmers, but all Hungarian people through the price of basic food. According to the calculations of the agricultural portfolio, the damage that could have been caused to farmers was estimated at HUF 36 billion, and, as it continued, to the entire Hungarian society, to all consumers. Then what do we see? László Bige even threatened Hungarian farmers to provide fertilizer for only one day and then sell the rest abroad. First he played him, then he even blackmailed the workers of the Hungarian countryside, who also provided food for Hungary in the middle of the pandemic. Now, under the pressure, it seems that the threat has turned into a promise, but, please, we've seen a wolf in sheep's clothing. What can I say is that the money obtained by dishonest means is rarely used for good use: I give to Péter Márki-Zay as much money as we have recently learned from the fertilizer king, where would he send the extra billions illegally obtained from farmers. As an experienced farmer, I ask myself that, through the money stolen from us, the campaign of a man who, as mayor, has already sent a message to the Hungarian countryside with the introduction of a land tax. You would think that the severe punishment would hold you back from lawlessness, but László Bige recently announced another price increase, despite the fact that the world market price for natural gas has been fluctuating in recent weeks, but it was clearly lower than at the October summit. Dear Deputy Minister, I ask you how we can ensure the undisturbed supply of fertilizers to Hungarian farmers, and at a fair price, if possible. Thank you for your answer in advance. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-74	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I agree with you that Nitrogénművek Zrt., which plays a prominent role in domestic supply, has a market share of around 60% in the domestic fertiliser market. László Bige's owner, based on his statements, launched an open attack on Hungarian farmers and the entire Hungarian population. Plays with farmers, plays with the security of production and food supply. How can the left-wing allied Hungarian large entrepreneur state that he will sell his production for export for half a year in the future, and he will continue to place a domestic order as a handout for a whole day when he knows that most of the Hungarian care is in his hands? What if it's not an open blackmail and a threat? We strongly reject this attitude and call on left-wing parties to do the same! There's been a huge outrage, a mass struggle, and as a result, the left-wing billionaire has changed his communication, and now, as you have mentioned, he's on his way and route to selling his goods at home. It's hard to follow his hairpins, he's lost his credibility in front of domestic agriculture and public opinion. As you pointed out, the availability and price of fertilizer is crucial, not only for plant producers but also indirectly for the entire domestic population. Fertilisers have a direct impact on the situation of other sectors, such as livestock production and the food economy, through the cost and effectiveness of crop production, and on the majority of food purchased by consumers. That is why this cartel, which has damaged the Hungarian economy for seven years, has taken 36 billion forints out of the pockets of the rural people, is so outrageous. The Gyurcsányist left showed that he ignored the agricultural society, unfortunately, not for the first time. László Bige, the related billionaire, is the Nitrogénművek Zrt. Using its market position, it artificially kept the price of fertilizer expensive, and incorrect profiteering on producers is unacceptable. I hope that, in the future, there will also be clear conditions and the dominance of clean players in this market. Honourable Congressman, The behaviour of the left-wing entrepreneur forces us to closely monitor the development and development of the fertiliser market in order to ensure the needs of domestic agriculture. Our firm position is that in the interests of farmers, we must use all possible means to ensure safe domestic fertiliser supply, so we will consult with fertiliser distributors who are an alternative to the uncertainty represented by László Bige in this situation. I would like to inform the honourable Member that we have various proposals on our table, all of which are aimed at maintaining security of supply. These include the possibility of introducing export restrictions in the event of or in order to prevent supply problems. The primary objective is to provide farmers with sufficient fertilizer to support next year's agricultural production, thus ensuring the conditions for next year's production. Our further decisions depend on the evolution of the market situation. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-75	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. In return, I give the floor to the Member, and he accepts the answer.
u2021-12-13-76	Thank you very much. I agree with and accept the Secretary of State's response. The membership of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy of around 400,000 is substantially affected by the availability and form of fertilizer, the impact on crop results, the costs of animal feed and, moreover, the impact on the price of food materials, including the marketability and competitiveness of the whole sector. As I said, this rings on and affects all Hungarian families. However, I am very curious that left-wing policy accepts support from such unfairly acquired money, but I think that they also take a stand in terms of supporting and eviscerating the countryside. I am pleased to see that the Ministry of Agriculture has acted decisively, and I would like to say to all Hungarian rural people that the alliance of the wallet, Magos and the Chamber of Agricultural Economy, as has been the case so far, can continue to count on and we will fight together to ensure that fertilizer is available, and indeed at market, normal prices. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the response to the interpellation. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the families:. What does the Government do to improve the situation of pensioners and pensioners? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.20]]
u2021-12-13-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government is focused on respect for the elderly, so we are trying to do everything we can to ensure that this is also expressed by concrete measures. The government has set itself the goal of continuously preserving the purchasing value of pensions, as opposed to the policy of the former Socialist government that harms older people. Increases in pensions and pension-like benefits follow inflation, thus the amount of benefits increased nominally by 47 per cent over the last decade and by 10 per cent in purchasing value. Older people could also benefit from the growing performance of the economy, remember that from 2017 the government also allowed the payment of the pension premium. And this has been the case in the past year and a half, even during the pandemic emergency period, since the first measures included health and economic protection for the elderly. Dear Secretary of State, The opposition is constantly concerned about pensioners, but it does so despite the fact that the former socialist government, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, has decided on a number of measures that have been a major blow to the elderly. In 2009, a month's pension was taken from 2.2 million people, and the real value of pensions was reduced regardless. Under the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, the purchasing power of pensions decreased by 10 percent between 2005 and 10 percent. I could also mention the example that Jobbik did not support the proposal here in Parliament for women to retire with 40 years of entitlement. Or I could mention the statements made by Péter Márki-Zay, the designated leader of the left, in which he considers the return of the 13th month pension and the policy of reducing the rent to be foolish and flawed. Therefore, it may be more important today than ever that older people can expect Fidesz-KDNP governance. This will ensure that the value of the benefits established is preserved with a prudent economic policy. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what the Government will do in future to improve the situation of those receiving pensions and pension benefits. I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-79	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary Secretary Róbert Zsigó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-13-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you for bringing up this important issue of the elderly and pensioners here at the Parliament meeting. The government is committed to respecting the elderly, and this is best shown by the measures we have taken since 2010. In 2010, the government undertook to maintain the purchasing value of pensions and increase attention to the elderly, making decisions to improve the living conditions of older people. We kept our word, kept our promise, and despite the crisis caused by the coronal virus, we did not abandon the elderly. We all remember, as you said, a few examples, Mr President, that this was not always the case, because before 2010, in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, a month's pension was taken from older people, pension correction was withdrawn, gas and electricity prices were doubled three times in that period, putting older people in a very difficult position and introducing a visitation fee and hospital daily allowance, which, as a result of a referendum, we prevented people together. Between 2010 and 2021, budget lines related to pensions increased by 42 percent to HUF 3900 billion by more than HUF 1153 billion, so we spend more on pensions and pension-like benefits, and since 2010, pensions have increased by 47 percent in nominal terms and 10 percent in terms of purchasing value. The value preservation of pensions is ongoing, as the rate of pension increase in January is higher than that foreseen in the Central Budget Act next year. As inflation will be higher than expected according to the Hungarian National Bank's forecast, the government's decision to maintain the value of pensions is also important next year, so the government's decision will result in a 5 percent increase in pensions next year. This also proves that against the governments of Gyurcsány, Bajnai, which were constantly taken away from older people during the crisis, we do not take away from pensioners in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, but we increase their support. In addition to the inflation-following pension increase, the Hungarian economy also benefited from good performance and economic success, since from 2016 until November 2021 the pensioners and pension recipients received HUF 509 billion in excess in the form of a voucher, a pension certificate and a pension premium. We will continue to support older people, which means that the 13th month pension that left-wing governments took away from older people before 2010 will be fully returned to older people in February next year. It is important to note that persons receiving a standard old-age pension or pension premium are not only entitled to a pension for the 13th month, but also those receiving pension-like benefits, such as those receiving rehabilitation benefits, disability benefits or invalidity benefits. I also note that the pension premium will be maintained, and in November we paid the pension premium of HUF 80,000 to pensioners and pension recipients. We see that the designated candidate for Prime Minister of the opposition does not like the retirement of the 13th month pension, just as it would abolish the reduction of the rent, the reduction in petrol prices or the minimum wage. It also shows that I would do the same thing I did before 2010, but I can assure you, old people can still count on us. Thank you very much for your question and for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-81	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-12-13-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I accept the Minister of State's reply, and on behalf of all Hungarian pensioners, I respectfully thank you for the measures, the opportunities that the Hungarian Government offers to pensioners and pensioners with the support of Parliament, and I very much hope that these subsidies, this system, will remain in the future, so that all pensioners can rely safely on the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, the Fidesz-KDNP government. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. The compulsory vaccination is not taken in by the stomach of the Hungarian person. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Sándor Bodó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The discriminatory government regulations that you have recently created, affecting millions of Hungarian families, say that if the employee does not take up the vaccination against the coronal virus by 15 December, the employer may order him to have unpaid leave, or he must order the employees of the public administration to do so. Mr. Secretary. How are the healthy working people you sent home from your workplace gonna support your family and who's gonna do their job? Have you thought about that? While the Labour Code states that employers have a fundamental obligation to provide work and wages, none of these will be guaranteed during unpaid leave. And if, for reasons understandable by vaccination, it would not be enough to send people home humiliating and discriminatoryly and take their salary, then we can hear the fine prints: the employer can immediately dismiss the employee after a year's unpaid leave, and, furthermore, unpaid leave does not count as employment time, i.e. no cafeteria benefits, no leave, sick leave, sick pay, severance pay, and now pay attention! health care, too. [[Dr. Bence Vécsey is consulting with László Rétvári. Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] Dear Secretary of State, Orbán said earlier, and I quote: "In the case of Korona virus, I think that this does not work in Hungary. He's right. What are you doing now? It shifts responsibility to employers and makes the Covid vaccination mandatory in the public sector, with the prospect of financial nullification. [[15.30]] The Prime Minister also recently said, I quote: "The compulsory vaccination is not taken by the stomach of the Hungarian man. He's right again. Secretary of State, I acknowledge and appreciate the government's performance in the field of vaccine procurement, but I do not agree with the mandatory Covid vaccination. Therefore, in interpreting the requests made by millions of my fellow Somogy countrymen, I respectfully ask that discriminatory government regulations be withdrawn as soon as possible. Will you withdraw them, Mr. Secretary? Yes or no? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-12-13-85	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodo. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as you have said, health is more important than anything else, and I think that your career, your professional work in water polo sports, is also a commitment. Obviously, you did a lot of work with your teammates, and I can really say that we were proud to support you when you represented the Hungarian nation in the pool. It is quite clear that the only way that he could achieve these successes was if he had been properly prepared, went to trainings, participated in competitions. I am quite certain, although you obviously know this much better, that in order to do so, you must sometimes travel to distant continents, distant countries, remote cities, and it may also be possible, I assume, in order to be able to participate in these races, you must have taken vaccinations. In fact, if we interpret it that way, you were in some kind of contractual relationship with the Hungarian Waterball Association. Of course, the parallel is not worthy in this respect, but it was present as an employee in this activity. So it was your decision to take this opportunity, get yourself vaccinated, participate in the races. Of course, I do not want to raise this parallel to the level of harming anyone, our excellent Hungarian athletes or Hungarian employees, but we need to see that the conditional method has been made,. you can order, that is, there is definitely an opportunity for workers to choose from vaccinations, even from several types of workers. I believe you, because there was a time when vaccinations were limited that there was some kind of residence. This is what we have heard in countless conversations: this or that I do not want, I do not believe, perhaps in another. Well, this concern is certainly gone, because vaccinations are now available in many ways. And that is from the hospital data, and I think, unfortunately, from the experience of all of us, that those of our loved ones, or even ourselves, who have been vaccinated, have at least two vaccines in my case, but you are probably the same, so those who already have vaccination may be much less used by another disease, another wave, another variant, and from now on, practical experience, daily life proves that vaccination is the most effective; there is no other, really effective method of protection or form of protection. And that gives us a chance to live with, and I think we have a responsibility. In many cases, work is done in a community. Of course, there are times when someone has to do their job so isolated, so alone, because the job is such that there is no chance of social relationships. However, perhaps they should be allowed to, because in this situation they are responsible for the fact that, as an opportunity, you spoke of a conditional way, and I too, so as an opportunity to consider whether, in the given job, you expect the worker to be vaccinated for the sake of himself and his colleagues, for the sake of the loved ones of his colleagues. So I think that this assumption, this opportunity, is worth considering and considering, and that if we go through these decisions, it will be absolutely clear, as the figures prove, that more than 6 million 190 000 of our citizens have been vaccinated, so obviously they can take this responsibility. Well, honourable Member, I would ask you to consider that there is no more effective vaccination at present, so I think that we should also campaign, even with joint cooperation, and draw attention to the possibility of this, and certainly not that it is a useless thing. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-12-13-87	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2021-12-13-88	Secretary of State, I thank you for the appreciation of my successful career as a sportsman, but let me tell you that hiring Covid in the public sector is not an option, it is an obligation. Anyone who doesn't answer, goes home, stays unpaid, and I told them what the consequences are. It is also possible to improve the conditions for safe work during an epidemic by other means, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is still effective protection. One element of this is home office, and then there's mask usage, distance, plexi use, regular hand disinfection, regular cleaning, disinfection to name only a few, or even free testing, vitamin and immunoboosting products. You know, the Fidesz government should support this. The mandatory vaccination will not be taken by the stomach of Hungarian people, and our children will not be vaccinated with Covid. And because of his answer, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Turns out they're not gonna take it back (the president rings the bell.) I cannot accept this discriminatory government regulation and I cannot accept its reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-12-13-89	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Mihály Balla, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: "Would you take away our children's future? It's an address. Mr Mihály Balla has the floor.
u2021-12-13-90	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, From the very first moment, since its adoption, the European Commission has been constantly attacking the Child Protection Act. Last week's news is that you have entered the next phase of the infringement procedure in this regard. Of course, you're going to dress this attack in a legal gown, but in the background, there's the hottest political blackmail going on. They threaten us if we do not submit to this issue, then Hungary will not have access to the EU's budgetary resources. There is an ideological network in Western Europe, which is also under the influence of the European Commission, which does not respect the fact that the education of children, including sexual education, is above all the right and responsibility of parents. On the other hand, we believe that neither the European Commission nor anyone else has the right to interfere with how we raise our children. It can't happen that the child goes to school and meets activists who are engaged in sexual propaganda. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Fidesz!]] Which the parent disagrees with. This is completely self-evident for us, but now there is a situation where we have to fight for this right and stand up for the protection of our children. The government is struggling, but we know that the opposition is also on the other side of this issue. So there is not only an international but also an internal political opposition here. Therefore, it is important that there will be a referendum on this issue, in which we hope that the Hungarians will line up to protect the country's long-term future together with the government. This worked once, on the issue of immigration. There was a referendum then, and we also showed Brussels that Hungarians are united in this, stand up for themselves, and that they cannot be broken. There was no compulsory quota or introduction, even though this was Brussels' intention. We must now repeat the same thing about raising our children. Dear Secretary of State, What European value is it that we are expected to give up the future of our children in exchange for access to our resources? [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Applause! Applause!]]
u2021-12-13-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. [[György Szilágyi: Aren't you clapping?]]
u2021-12-13-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Dear sarcastic Jobbik MEPs, There is no amount and there is no blackmail that anyone would agree to anything unconventional about their own child, so the Hungarian government will not accept that we are being blackmailed, and they say that the forints for which the Hungarian people have worked, which are for the Hungarian people, or the credit line that the European Union takes on together, can only be used by Hungary, by Hungarian companies, Hungarian employees, by the Hungarian people, if the Hungarian government lets the LGBT organizations into the kindergartens and primary schools without control and without the parents' knowledge. [[15.40]] It is very alarming that, with a slight exaggeration, democracy seems to have two standards from Brussels on how many migrants are admitted in one country and how many non-transmutating surgeries have been performed. Where this is high, good democracy, where it is low, is not democracy. This kind of thinking was not started in Brussels, for Marx said already a century and a half ago that we were replacing home-schooling with social. Engels also said that the care and upbringing of children became a common concern; and even Buharin put the point on the i that the child is not the property of the parents, but the property of the society into which he was born, so that society should raise the child and not the family. We have strengthened and defended families, no matter how much we could not count on this opposition, the left, because neither the material nor the symbolic support nor the novelties have been supported, and now they are cynically saying that this referendum should not be dealt with, and nowhere else in Europe has people been asked about migration or LGBT propaganda, but the political elites themselves have decided who the people there will live with and how their children will be re-educated, where appropriate. How extreme this can be, we saw it last week from the posters of one of the Soros organizations, who were absolutely, even astoundingly encouraging left-wing people to be homosexuals, to put it nicely, even on the other side, surprised many people. What did the Left Prime Minister's candidate say? We will immediately abolish this terrible law; it will tear up the ballot. So about like Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who has torn up the ballot paper or letter of the national consultation on support for families here, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left will tear the ballot to the greater joy of democracy. István Ujhelyi thinks it's stupid. Once again, others view it as a mockery of democracy, a day of lies, a bad play. According to Bence Tordai, asking the Hungarian people that despite the parents' wishes, they can rearrange the child in school and kindergarten, he says that this is Borny bullshit. According to Antal Csárdi, this is not among the ten thousand most important cases in Hungary today. According to András Fekete-Győr, there is a place for transsexuals to hold sexual education classes in kindergartens, so that it has risen to the level of a government program. We see that those who deal with this as an international flu, a special ambassador, or otherwise, such as Riccardo Simonetti, deal with nothing but the constant attack of Christians, attacking the symbols of Christians; he, for example, dressed as the Virgin Mary. I don't know how far ahead of any homosexual, but by the way, it's insulting hundreds of millions of people in the world for whom it's a sacred picture, but it doesn't help those whose name it's supposed to speak for, but it attacks Christians. [[György Szi-Lágyi intervenes.]] We can see what is happening in other countries. In England, they have to write love letters to boys in lower school, and little girls and little girls have to do it. In Sweden, 18 times more minors have asked for their sexual conversion in the last five years since this propaganda started. In Belgium, it is true that their health care was partially discontinued during the epidemic, but there was a capacity for 400 non-transmutation surgeries. In Norway, Santa comes in close contact with his dad, but actually, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I don't care if it's a dad or a mom, it's Santa Claus, you don't have to put him in that position. So the Hungarian people can decide that by standing on the ground of common sense. We hope that many people will come and decide to protect Hungarian families, because the child is raised by a family, not by these organizations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-93	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2021-12-13-94	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. We agree, of course, on what Mr Secretary of State said, and on the fact that the referendum will be an opportunity that, although there may be some people who think this is odd, that from time to time people will be asked questions that are very important for the nation or even for the future, even in a referendum. I think that, in agreement with Mr State Secretary, in a referendum, with the possibility of four questions and with the opportunity to answer them, the Hungarian people will confirm the efforts that we have already made and have taken a decision on him in connection with the Child Protection Act in this House. In these matters, the possibility of raising our children and children who are helped or raised by parents within the family will also be decided by the referendum, and will show the acceptance of this decision. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-95	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the State Secretary's reply to the interpellation. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We're going to talk about immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Prime Minister, because of his absence, Minister János Süli was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2021-12-13-96	Mr. President, we'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-12-13-97	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Madam Minister? It's an address. Minister, for your absence, Mr Répássy has given the State Secretary the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Welcome back aboard, as Minister welcomed you after your appointment. There is no misunderstanding, I have no problem with you, but we would have liked to have heard the answers from the Minister today to questions which, by the way, are not only the opposition representatives, but I think that the public is also very interested and which are most within the sphere of competence of the Minister. Of course, we have already seen that the tasks of the Ministry are going well, see, for example, the authorisation of wiretap signatures, which was transferred to your predecessor, Pál Völner, according to his own statement, and that this procedure raises a number of questions about its legality, and is a cause for debate, which would have been good for clarification. Not to mention that we have not yet received answers to a lot of questions about the Pegasus scandal, such as who they could be listening to or why they could be listening to these people, and all with a software that was created in the first round or mostly for counterintelligence. Instead of playing with open cards, you've encrypted these data, so we couldn't find out about them. The situation was further complicated when Pál Völner, who signed the signatures, found that the prosecutor's office suspected him of a very serious corruption case, namely that he occasionally, on a regular basis, accepted between HUF 2 and 5 million from the President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court. Mr Secretary, my question to me is that you believe that it is acceptable that Paul Völner has not resigned from his mandate as a representative and that you believe that it is acceptable that someone in such a case [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He's mixing, then he's getting a $4 million severance pay. Thank you for your reply.
u2021-12-13-99	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2021-12-13-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I can only answer on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, because your questions were partly outside the purview of the Ministry of Justice. The position of the Minister of Justice is clear in this case: in Hungary the laws apply to everyone, everyone is equal before the law; and the prosecution is independent. Nothing more than this procedure to prove that the prosecutor's office has done its job and is doing its job, even though the State Secretary indicted has resigned immediately, thus assuming political responsibility. I would also like to say to you that in the Ministry of Justice, the internal system of organisation, and thus the system of substitution, as well as the order of autonomous powers, is guaranteed by a ministerial order, a public ministerial order, an organizational code, and that everyone has acted on this matter, so there has been no out-of-law mandate or out-of-law replacement. [[15.50]] Both the National Security Act and the Government Administration Act and the Ministry's internal order of business and internal organisation regulate these issues publicly. I think it is important to say this because it has been known so far how well a ministry works, and specifically how well the Ministry of Justice operates. These rules are not new, by the way, the replacement or delegation of powers is a decade-old rule for any ministry. Please accept this answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-101	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please, in a moment.
u2021-12-13-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Mr Secretary, you are actually sitting in a party family, so the fact that you or the Ministry have an official opinion on this does not mean that you may not have an opinion on this. I'm sorry you didn't explain this to us, and I'm really sorry you didn't tell me about the procedures at the Ministry, but if one rule is wrong, then that can be changed. I'll tell you again, I'm really sorry that the four-million-dollar severance pay wouldn't be a problem in a case like this. Thank you.
u2021-12-13-103	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have the right to a rejoinder, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-12-13-104	Honourable Congressman, I think I have one more thing to inform you that the Attorney General has agreed that your Secretary of State has resigned, so, once again, I have to say that you have expressed your position on behalf of us. So the Minister agreed that because of this procedure, the leader against whom such a serious suspicion is raised could not carry out his office, so she agreed to resign. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-105	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Have you ever been a Madam Minister when you took political responsibility for something? It's an address. Secretary of State's absence to respond to Répássy... [[Attila Mesterházy: Madam Secretary.]] I am sorry, Minister, because of your absence, I ask for your understanding of the answer, Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, has given me the right to answer. I'm asking you to accept the response. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-106	Thank you very much, yes. Although I would indeed have preferred it if Minister finally came into Parliament and answered as a politician, I could say, as Máté Kocsis said, that it is tasteless to flee from responsibility and direct expression or straight standing out. True, he meant someone else, but I think it's also the minister. Mr Secretary of State, I congratulate you on your appointment, and I hope that this will be one of the shortest secretaries of state, since the opposition will win in 22 and you will not have to carry this burden any longer. But it would have been nice if Minister had come in here and accepted, as I said earlier, political responsibility, and not just as a Facebook celebrity who skates, plays the piano, or is on a trip, as we can see on her Facebook page, but also as a real politician here in this arena. Maybe he's not cut out for this profession. That is why I ask whether your boss resigns and assumes political responsibility, and I didn't just think about it, by the way, but this is what Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén or Gábor Kubatov talked about, who, when asked if he had a political responsibility in this justice minister, said that it was his personal decision to make. So you didn't protect Minister. I think the opposition has a legitimate point, and we have reason to believe that, indeed, the Minister must also leave for two reasons: if she knew about it, she is an accomplice, and if she didn't know about it, then she is simply unfit for the task she is performing. After all, for a long time in a criminal organization, his deputy was involved in a corruption case. And that, frankly, doesn't make my eyes blurry and I don't get so emotional that he agreed to his deputy's resignation. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, what else could you have done? You don't agree with him as the Attorney General that the house was stolen under him? That's what I'm waiting for. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-107	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-108	Thank you for the floor. Congressman, I can tell you the same thing that I said to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, because he basically asked the same question. So, within the Ministry, there is a clear, legally regulated operating order, and everyone who exercises jurisdiction functions in a regular, legal order. The resigned Secretary of State drew the political conclusion and resigned the moment the Attorney General had subpoenaed the suspension of his immunity, and, by the way, as far as I know, he consented, which means he doesn't need his consent, but he requests the suspension of his immunity. To your question of what else the Minister could have done: the Minister's agreement with this resignation, you know that the Secretary of State is actually making this resignation to the President of the Republic, not to his Minister, the Minister has thus expressed her opinion because we are being asked what she thinks of this case, that she agrees with the resignation, and that the prosecutor's independent investigation, if the prosecution asks for it within the framework of the Criminal Procedure Act, will, of course, take note of it and even cooperate with the prosecution. Although I believe that you know everything about this matter, so do the Members who are members of the immunity committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-109	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-12-13-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Secretary of State, I would suggest that you do not take any responsibility from Madam Secretary, and do not sign everything, because next time you may have to take the fall. That's really just good advice at the beginning of your job. But you probably didn't listen to what I asked you. I am not interested in the Minister's opinion, which she explained by saying that she was not opposed to the resignation of her Secretary of State, and I was curious about the Minister's opinion, which she answers to me here on three important issues. One is to resign and assume political responsibility, or because he knew about it or because he didn't know about it. In one case, he is an accomplice, and in the other case he is unfit to be a minister and political leader. One. Two, did you get any money from what this man stole over the last three years? I hear in the press that it is now in the order of 83 million forints, so it is almost 100 million forints. Did the minister get any of this? Did you share this money? Because he was the boss who was supposed to check out the Secretary of State's work after all. And the third is that Fidesz received it from a party financing point of view. I would have asked the secretary to put it in the party register. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] if applicable, this money that has been collected. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-13-111	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-112	Congressman, I haven't been a Member of Parliament in such a long time that I don't remember that you could have insisted on asking the Minister, but you wanted to ask me for clarification. I gave you this information, gave you a clear view of the Minister of Justice, and what the Ministry of Justice's official position on this matter is. What you're asking is allegations, not even questions, actually statements that I can refuse, I have to refuse. Of course, if you have any suspicions, you can now know who to turn to: the independent prosecutor's office. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-113	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Who has instructed whom to take responsibility for what and who will take responsibility for this? It's an address. Minister Robert Répássy, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2021-12-13-114	Yeah.
u2021-12-13-115	You have the floor.
u2021-12-13-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you have to make a statement sooner or later, and not only to speak out, because it is within your purview, no matter how much you have questioned it. It is an unprecedented scandal in Hungary's history that the Ministry of Justice has become a crime scene. Such a procedure has never been initiated against such a high-ranking state leader, an official. Corruption has already been in your possession, and it seems that it will continue under the NER system, an essential element of this. It's like Duracell in a battery bunny for you. [[16.00]] I've been taken into custody, I've been convicted of an in-Office State Secretary, but I've never seen such a thing happen to a Deputy Minister of Justice. Official bribery, prosecution charges, the party state of the Orbán system now appears to be rotten to the core. However, there is another, no less interesting, thread of the case. The Democratic Coalition, my co-chair Judit Ráczné Földi, and myself, have been suing for years to issue the bills and contracts of support from the Felcsút Reinforcing Foundation in the Tao case. This Tao money, which... we often talk about ten billion forints now. Turns out they bought thousands of cottage cheese Rudis, tons of Fornetti products, 30,000 eggs, 150 kilos of salmon. However, we did not receive any really interesting data. It was prevented by an executor. And this executioner was none other than György Schadl. The executor is now under pre-trial arrest, suspecting that he continued to bribe Paul Völner for years. Why were the public accounts of Viktor Orbán's foundation, together with this executive, shared in the Ministry? Answer that, please, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-13-117	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-118	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, You were just here for both answers, so you heard the official position of the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. I would like to draw your attention to one thing: you are very mistaken that there was no higher politician who would have been prosecuted. But there was, it's called Ferenc Gyurcsány. Ferenc Gyurcsány suspended the parliamentary immunity in the so-called Sukoro case. The D.A.'s office conducted an investigation, and the D.A.'s office ended this procedure. But you're very wrong about that, you're very wrong about not being a higher-ranking person, but Ferenc Gyurcsány was in that position as Prime Minister, that is to say, as former Prime Minister, he was in the position to be accused. I only ask that, when DK, in particular, does not take into account the presumption of innocence, it should be borne in mind that Ferenc Gyurcsány has been sitting in the chair assigned to the suspects, and he has also been questioned by prosecutors. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-119	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-120	Secretary of State, you have just quoted from Fidesz's indictment practice, but please answer once again the question: from whom was this executioner instructed to help keep secrets on the road? And do you agree that the man who was your predecessor left with four million forints of basically severance pay? Madam Secretary, the inability to make full publicity of the overhead accounts proves our suspicion that under the cover of the multibillion-dollar sports grant to the football academy, the crimes of corruption, fraudulent treatment, tax evasion, illicit party financing could have been carried out. This clearly proves that the threads of the Völner case lead all the way to the Prime Minister. That is why, Mr Secretary, that is what you really need to answer. Thank you very much. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.)
u2021-12-13-121	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-12-13-122	Honourable Congressman, I understand there was a legal procedure in which you couldn't enforce your will, but this has nothing to do with the Justice Department. You confuse the Ministry of Justice with the judiciary, the justice system orders the executions, and the execution takes place under the supervision of the justice system, the court. So if you have any objections or objections to this procedure, you have to go to court or go to court. So you know that there are rules in the enforcement procedure, there are remedies. Don't ask the Attorney General to account for what you have failed to do in this case. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-123	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, "How much longer?" It's an address. Minister Robert Répássy, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-12-13-124	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, congratulations on your appointment, we haven't met. Pál Völner now has 83 million reasons for not being here, and, unfortunately, he is no longer a State Secretary. But I haven't asked you the question yet, because I'm not going to ask you about Paul Völner, which may be strange after today's speeches. I want to talk about domestic violence again. I will never give up, and so before Christmas this topic is particularly topical, I think. I don't know how you know that under Covid, there's an 88 percent increase in connection violence crimes and 27 percent increase in homicide between relatives. He knew that there were 1842 cases of temporary preemptive detention by the authorities, and that there were about 80,000 women in our country, who were not only beaten up as children, but even sexually harassed. Research results from the Heim Pál Children's Hospital; gender distribution of abused children according to 2004 data: girls 21 percent, boys 79 percent. For them, psychologists think that there's a good chance they'll become abusers later on. We only have data from 2015, from which we can clearly say that one in five women has ever lived or lived in a relationship where her partner regularly physically or mentally abused her. My question is when a real change will finally take place, and what measures will be taken by the judicial portfolio to ensure that during interrogations and court proceedings no more and more victims are traumatized; that, for example, a woman does not have to repeat the form of abuse and trauma in front of five men. I have asked this question several times, and unfortunately I have not received a meaningful answer so far, but I have listened to the amendments and amendments to the law over and over again. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-125	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungarian and European cultures are based, among other things, on respect for women and equal rights for men and women. We have increased the protection of women through strict criminal policy, crisis centres, shelters, legal and spiritual aid programmes. In 2013, the Parliament significantly tightened the penalties for domestic violence and made the relationship violence a stand-alone reality. In order to protect victims, conditions for parole were tightened in 2020. On the other hand, by creating crisis centres, secret shelters, crisis clinics and increasing their number, the government has established a suitable number of victims' care systems capable of responding to real needs and needs, which will not only provide physical protection for the victims, but also help eliminate the crisis as soon as possible with the assistance of a social worker, psychologist and lawyer. Around 300 places are available across the country for victims of contact violence and trafficking in human beings, which are maintained by civil society organisations with financial support from the state. In 2021 20 crisis centers, 8 secret safe houses, 21 halfway houses and 7 crisis clinics help the victims. I would like to assure you that the Minister for Justice, Judit Varga, has given priority to women's protection and has given priority to the institutions protecting the above mentioned women's rights. This falls within the remit of the Ministry of Justice, and we deal with this as everyday work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-127	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have a rejoinder from the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-128	Thank you very much for the floor. I know all this, Paul Völner said it many times, but that's not enough. I could say this a little pathetic as long as there is one victim, but, of course, unfortunately, it would be difficult to achieve none, although I say we should do so until there is such a case, especially against children or older parents, we have seen countless examples of this, too. I think that everything must continue to be done to this end, not enough for 8 houses, for 300 places, more needs to be done, and in other areas also need to be improved. [[16.10]] We have tabled countless proposals, but you have not accepted one, have not accepted one, nor have you listened to it, because if you had noticed, at least some of them could have been submitted and implemented by their own name. So I wish everyone, especially the abused, a merry Christmas. A lot of strength and perseverance for them further! Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-12-13-129	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-13-130	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I fully agree with the need to give priority to the victims and vulnerable groups of society within the framework of criminal proceedings and to protect their rights. The Criminal Procedure Act, which came before the House during the codification work of the Ministry of Justice, allows them to be protected in a special way and to protect their personal data or persons in criminal proceedings. I myself have experienced as a lawyer that they are warned of these rights, of these circumstances, and, more specifically, in criminal proceedings, they are informed that they can make use of these opportunities. I trust that more and more people will know that there is such an opportunity in criminal proceedings, which specifically protects victims, victims, and specifically helps victims of abuse. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-131	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question. It's an address. Minister Robert Répássy, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Car-Cake Olivio nods.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-132	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I, too, congratulate you on your appointment, but you should not be sitting here today, but Minister Judit Varga should be sitting here. And it is outrageous that Madam Minister was not able to come in here, because Parliament is also his job, and we should not spend time traveling abroad, explaining the mundane's honour in relation to the rule of law, but reporting to Parliament, especially in such an important, hard case as what has happened. The Minister continues to shift responsibility, as she passed on the approval of Pegasus software to Pál Völner. I have a simple question about the Völner case. My simple question is who checked Pál Völner's work on court executions. Did Paul Völner report on his work? Who saw these reports, and who approved them? I understand you had a superior officer, but then you'll correct me, Mr. Secretary. If all is true, they suspect Paul Völner of corruption in the appointment of executives. Was the case why you initiated an investigation into the judicial execution of Pál Völner's activities in the Ministry? You've suspected that the executors appointed in the last two and a half years have acquired their jobs by means of corruption, are you investigating these bailiffs? In this connection, my next question is that, with regard to the authorisation of secret information gathering, now, knowing that they were probably supervised by a man who could be corrupted, initiated an investigation. So, in short, my question is what the consequences of this corruption issue within the Ministry are. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-12-13-133	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-134	Honourable Congressman, I have partially answered such questions, and I can say in part that you can see and know that there are serious consequences to such a case, not only within the Ministry, but also here in Parliament, there are very serious consequences to this matter. So my main statement is that we are acting according to the law, and we have acted according to the law; if such a serious suspicion arises, then the Ministry of Justice or any Ministry of Justice supports the investigation and cooperates with the investigative bodies. The D.A.'s office is investigating the questions you said, a criminal prosecution, an investigation is underway. These issues, which you referred to, can only be clarified within the framework of criminal proceedings. Therefore, nowhere else can be clarified, only within the framework of criminal proceedings, and this prosecution has begun. So this prosecution can answer data or questions you've been pushing. I would also like to state that you do not think that these issues are not regulated in the Ministry of Justice, I have already indicated that they are all, the way in which they are given instructions, the way in which they are exercised, how they are then controlled and verified, the standards laid down in internal regulations, but in public regulations. So the rules were made not now, but much earlier, and according to these rules, everyone works according to the rules. Of course, a person who deliberately violates these rules and, in addition, breaks them in a covert way, other than committing a crime, concealing or concealing that he can be held accountable for this exercise of authority. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-135	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-12-13-136	Thank you for the floor. So, if I understand correctly, there will be no investigation into Paul Völner's activities in the Ministry, there will be no inspection of these bailiffs who have been appointed in the last two and a half years, but if he comes up in the course of criminal proceedings, the prosecution will take action in this regard. That doesn't sound good, Mr. Secretary. You may be able to answer this question as to who is currently overseeing the enforcement issues and who is authorising the wiretappings. So since Paul Völner resigned as Secretary of State, who is responsible for these two areas? Thank you.
u2021-12-13-137	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-138	Honourable Congressman, The Parliament has decided on this issue, because since 1 October 2021 Parliament has established the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities by law, and it is this authority that supervises the activities of executives and has the authority of the President of the Authority in respect of appointments. So today, the Department of Justice has no choice in what you're asking, in any case, to hold these executives accountable. What I think, however, in the common interest of all of us, is that only those executives against whom the suspicion is confirmed will have to be dealt with and criminal liability will be established, since other executives should not be checked, without any suspicions. This might not be a rule of law. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-139	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question. It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2021-12-13-140	Yeah.
u2021-12-13-141	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-142	Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, After City Hall, let's take a look at Catalina's clothes. The business network linked to the Member of the European Parliament of the Czech Republic has been linked to the misuse of EU funds. Katalin Cseh has been listening for several months, refusing to comment on the matter, although the members of his company and his net have been removing nearly HUF 4.8 billion of EU funding in recent years. Investigators from the NAV have already searched the vaci premises of companies linked to Katalin in the Czech Republic. The Hungarian Competition Authority also reported the crime of fiscal fraud by Pannónia Nyomda Kft., led by Katalin Cseh. NAV Directorate-General for Crime. Pannónia Nyomda Kft. He was controlled by Katalin Cseh between 2013 and 2018. The company started out in public procurements with companies located in a network linked to Katalin and his family in the Czech Republic. Companies linked to Katalin in the Czech Republic, bidding on each other, cheating on public procurement rules, won billion-dollar applications. In addition to the complaint, the Hungarian Competition Authority has turned to the Public Procurement Authority and informed the European Anti-Fraud Office of the crime detected. Katalin Cseh, a left-wing leader in the fight against fraud itself, has thus been found to be a network of companies that tap into domestic development resources and EU subsidies. [[16.20]] Dear Secretary of State, I ask you, you can expect OLAF's interest in left-wing abuse. Will corruption on the left finally have consequences? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-144	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I was confident that four or five or six people were asking the Minister of Justice about his predecessor, that there would be enough in them to possibly ask what had happened to Katalin and what had happened to him in the last few days. I also hoped that I would be such a naive person to announce that Catalina Czech announced her resignation to the European Union, but this did not happen. What are you doing? Firstly, the European Commission is trying to ensure that Hungary's recovery plan is not adopted by political pressure. In other words, he works against Hungarian people in Brussels. Second, he had a network of companies that won a larger EU tender; it is not forbidden in itself; it is not a problem in itself. But that would take billions of forints away from Váci and Vác entrepreneurs, since there was one of the sites, that would be a big problem, because they could have done real work with that money. I am saying this because, if everything is true, they have organised and have applied for and won EU money for the development of technologies that were already in place in the company network linked to the family's business. So it is also interesting that these opposition representatives are so concerned about beauty, good and everything in an unbelievable way that they forget to tell their own. And that's why it's interesting, because he got part of the money anyway, at least the company network got it to help the Olympics. Then what did he do? This is how it became politically known that it drilled the Hungarian dream, and who got it? Only one candidate, Paris. Now, that's the left. They want to destroy everything, they have ruined everything in Hungary. That's what they're expecting. By the way, over there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And they never think about how much corruption they have. OLAF will be addressed in the rejoinder. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor in return to Congressman Gyula Budai.
u2021-12-13-146	Thank you very much. Mr President, The double standard works pretty well on the left. Attila Mesterházy and the left-wing representatives just explained that if Judit Varga knew things, he would have to give up if he didn't know, he wouldn't. Why don't we talk about Gergely Christmas, fellow Members? If Gergely Christmas knew what was going on at City Hall, it's because she couldn't, that's why! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: No case! There's no case! What's going on?]] No case? ! Dear Congresswoman, There's been a search, there's been a seizure of important documents, there's a commission system at City Hall. You have to give back 10 percent to Kiss Ambrus! What are you talking about? ! The same can be said about Catherine of the Czech Republic. We're investigating Catherine of the Czech Republic. There's been a search of the companies, there's an OLAF investigation, the Hungarian Competition Authority filed a complaint. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi and Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervene.]] And here you are saying the smarts, and you are setting double standards on this issue! It would be nice if you could look inside yourselves and be objective about things. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-148	We were talking about Katalin the Czech Republic, but we got to the city hall. I can answer that, I can respond. In the audio materials that appeared, there was this phrase: . Do you know how much damage is caused by companies who have been mowed to death here and had to get out of here, you mean, from the country? They had to sell the E.M.A., the D.E.A., everything here. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Honourable Congressman, Before 2010, the left did things in a mafia way, including privatisation. 190 companies and companies were sold, HUF 750 billion was lost in the budget, and there was no revenue. People have been deprived of the opportunity to keep the electricity supply, water or any other service in Hungarian hands, thus controlling the price. Now that's what's going on in town hall, that's what's going on with left-wing leadership, and then they're coming up with the case of a secretary of state, which is serious, but the big difference, honourable Member, is that we have consequences. The Secretary of State resigns. You don't have Katalin Cseh resigning. At your house, Gergely Christmas doesn't resign. With you, Bajnai Gordon can come again, that's the big difference! There'll be a sequel, obviously. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-149	Thank you. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, representative of KDNP, leader of the group, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question. district citizens in connection with the Budapest bypass line, the VO? It's an address. Minister Sándor Bodó granted the right to reply to his absence. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On Dr. István Simicskó's signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-150	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My question concerns how the railway development in Budapest, the construction of the southern circular railway, really affects the citizens of NewBudan, as the issue is relevant. Many people came to me, and a civil society organization was established under the name of Újbudan OPÉK. A lot of people are concerned because with enlargement, they think they may be affected by harmful noise and their usual lifestyles and lifestyles are changing in a negative direction. And I came to the ITM and to you, Mr Secretary of State, to give a reassuring answer to the people of Hamzsabégi Road, who live right next to the railway, when, in the future, we can expect that the southern roundabout can be built, which can significantly reduce freight traffic. However, the railway is a very important means of transport, it has huge potential, and indeed, the more stations you need, the more modern trains you need to get people from Budapest and New Buda from A to B. Dear Secretary of State, The development of the southern circular railway has already begun, and the reconstruction and expansion of the southern rail bridge is ongoing. This is a complex investment, it affects thousands of people directly, and we have information that the noise barrier will be built with the most modern tools and materials. How's that working out for you right now? Or what they can expect from XI. district citizens in connection with the construction of the V0, the railway line that avoids Budapest? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-151	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodo. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-152	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member! Thank you very much for your concern. Indeed, it is true that those who think about responsible transport think about the responsible future, because it is quite clear that the future nature of transport determines our living conditions. The fact that roads or railways or other alternatives sometimes take precedence is cyclical, but it is quite clear that the railway is eternal. Respect for railway builders and Hungarian railwaymen, as they have placed a product on the table of Hungarian society in decades, which can still be used to date, but here comes the de: it needs to be repaired. These railway lines were built quite a few ten years ago, in the first half of the last century, and in some cases, the city was around them. This is also the case with the area you represent, so it is quite clear that a correction is needed, and we must provide resources. The construction of the southern circular railway must serve this purpose. It is also quite clear that today building a railroad is a very big deal, but one of the most important things to consider is taking into account environmental impacts. Obviously, we need to think about the travelers, but we also need to think about those who live along the railway line. Today, it is not about building a railway at the base of the houses, without a noise barrier, and the rest, as it may have been a few decades ago, but about creating green corridors, railway corridors with a high-quality noise barrier, and it is also very important that the traffic management takes place in such a way that the inhabitants are less disturbed. This can be reasonably achieved if trains pass through this area as quickly as possible, this passage is organised according to an appropriate timetable, so very serious professional aspects must be taken into account. With regard to the V0 you are asking, I can say that the feasibility study is now being conducted, which takes into account all the conditions that you and the civil society organisation you represent [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the public asked for it. Thank you very much for asking.
u2021-12-13-153	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the leader of the group. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-154	Thank you again, Mr President, for the floor and thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The main concern here is the growth and growth of freight traffic. I think it's a legitimate concern. With all due respect, I ask you to take this into account. [[16.30]] Of course, we are also looking forward to the construction of V0, as this would in practice lead to at least a significant share of freight traffic from NewBuda. I also thank you for the fact that we have been able to consult with the head of the ITM in a number of rounds, either with Mr Mosóczi State Secretary, who is responsible for transport, even with Deputy Minister Tamás Schanda. I would also ask you to consult with civil society organisations, to take their views into account, but we are definitely on the side of development, only to improve people's living conditions and to pay attention to their opinions. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-155	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-13-156	Thank you very much. It's quite clear that we're on this path. It is important to see that Hungary will be one of the logistics centres of Central Europe in connection with railway development, and such a logistics centre should be implemented in a way that takes account of these aspects. The source is also available, so I can confirm that in the next period around HUF 6000 billion is available for railway construction. What is a constant issue is that two thirds of the resources will be used to modernise railway infrastructure and one third will be used to buy railway wagons. It is quite clear that freight transport, freight traffic, is the key to what you are asking for. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-157	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Bellozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask an immediate question. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I'll follow you, Congressman, because in the meantime, my cards have changed. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Madam Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes, thank you.]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2021-12-13-158	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I have a question, but my first question is where Minister Judit Varga is, because she would have the question. Now, Róbert Répássy, a newly appointed Secretary of State, is here against me, and he is the one who has nothing to do with it, he has not been here, he has not been a part of the previous two or three years, he has not been an employee or employee of the Ministry, so he is sent away by someone who is not entitled, he would not be entitled to take on the cases that have taken place. But what happened? We all know that Dr. Péter Polt made a motion to the Speaker of Parliament to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary MP Pál Völner as a result of a criminal bribe and an ongoing investigation of other crimes. As of August 2019, Pál Völner has also been Minister for the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court of Justice. In the ongoing investigation before the Central Investigator's Attorney General, there were reasonable grounds for suspecting that Pál Völner, Chairman of the Hungarian Executive Faculty of the Court of Justice, received a regular and occasional HUF 2.5 million to compensate for the alleged unlawful advantage, and, as requested by the President of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives, took advantage of the administrative powers of the supervisory authority. As Minister for Foreign Affairs Commissioner Pál Völner has had almost complete control over the executive faculty for two years, such as the creation of new posts and the elimination of old ones. Judit Varga was the one who appointed him for this position. How many problems have we got? What do we see? Serial cooperation with the housing mafia at the executive faculty, eviction of thousands of foreign exchange credentials, hundreds of millions of dollars of income, with this tiny branch of justice in practically private hands. Do you think, Mr. Secretary, that the system of implementation in Hungary is all right? Don't you have to change this system because of the series of problems? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-12-13-159	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-160	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I'll start from the end, because we've already touched on some of the questions you've asked here at this hour. The transformation of the system of implementation has been known to you in the last 10-11 years, as it has been on Parliament's table several times... the question of this implementation system has been placed on Parliament's table several times, the professional expectation of executives has been constantly tightened, and the organization of implementation has been continuously shaped by the Parliament in the various laws. Of course, it can always be improved that this system of implementing organisations is better and that it can always be improved to ensure that executives do their job legally and professionally high. So it's not news to you or to you how the implementation has been transformed. I have already mentioned today that the Ministry of Justice retains the power to legislate on enforcement, so at the moment, the Minister of Justice is responsible for the legislation, the legislation on enforcement, the supervision of enforcement and the supervision of executives have been transferred to the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities since 1 October. This was, by the way, a bill supported by the Ministry of Justice or the Government. In fact, I think that there is a right to be responsible for more official activities with such a self-regulatory instrument, an authority with a regulatory option. So now your questions are, I must say, in a whole new legal environment since October 1st, there have been other laws. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-161	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, you just said that surveillance has been tightened up lately. Then how is it that, at the moment, only at this time in criminal proceedings against eight executors, a deputy executor, and the chairman of the executive faculty, who is the prime suspect in this case? Then how does this even exist? What's the kind of custody you've been talking about, that you've been strict? Is there any change in that? Don't you have to change that? As early as 2014, Jobbik Hungary was initiated by the Movement to change this system, because this system is not good, so it cannot go on. It was my colleague Gábor Staudt who proposed the renationalisation of this system, of the executive staff, and of András Schiffer, of the LMP, who also put the same proposal on your table in 2014. Since then, we have been constantly experiencing continued corruption, which, by the way, has grown into a system in Hungary, obviously affecting many other sectors, but it has also affected your ministry, the executive staff and so much more. Shouldn't we change that, Mr. Secretary? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-12-13-163	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-164	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I could say he's got the nail on his head, because the ultimate control of this organization or any public authority is justice. Therefore, judicial enforcement is not called a bailiff for nothing, because it means that the decisions of the judiciary are being carried out, and therefore, if there is suspicion of a criminal offence, it is the independent prosecutor's office that can investigate this issue and ultimately bring the consequences to justice. So I think that in this case, the rule of law works, the whole spectrum of the rule of law works, from the executives' own internal organizations to the judiciary, all the machinery has started, and these machines will determine what has happened, and if there is a crime, there will be consequences. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-165	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask an immediate question to the Attorney General about the right of immunity. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2021-12-13-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Attorney General. On 2 December, his annual report was here in Parliament, where my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély inter alia insisted on how it was possible that he accused people with a very serious corruption crime, with public authority, and against Members of Parliament with a high level of Fidesz, in addition to the fact that the indictment had taken place, no other coercion measures were taken. To ask you in Hungarian, as well as the viewers, how can it be that someone is in an indictment stage on suspicion of continued corruption in a criminal alliance, multiple counts of corruption crimes, while sitting here in Parliament and otherwise providing a two-thirds majority vote in this country? [[16.40]] And you said, "The immunity motion has to be tabled, the immunity motion has to be decided, that's a lot of time." The specific reasons for the forced action restricting personal freedom will be removed. But if he doesn't escape in the process, if there's so much time that he can safely dispose of the evidence at any time, then what reason will there be for the court to arrest him, vanish, and it can't be done. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, When you said that on December 2nd, there was a big difference between you and the Members, you already knew there was a Völner case, and we Members didn't. So, obviously, it wasn't about that at the moment, it was about the Happy and Simonka cases that were already under way. I would therefore like to ask you how, after the Völner case has been made public, in particular in the context of that case, your previous words should be interpreted in relation to immunity. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-12-13-167	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt. Here you go, Attorney General.
u2021-12-13-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr President, with your question, Mr President, you have given the answer. He referred to what was said during the plenary debate on the General Prosecutor's Report for 2020. This question has indeed been raised, and it has indeed come up as you have quoted here. There are rules of immunity law, the Act on Parliament, certain sections of the Criminal Procedure Act influence what can be done, when can be done, and how can be done. There is no doubt that Members are entitled to immunity, this right of immunity is an act of non-compliance and is an act of inviolability. We're talking about the latter. You can only prosecute someone, interrogate him as a suspect, and subject him to coercion if the Parliament suspends his immunity. It is then possible to take any procedural action you have spoken of, and to consider that the situation is appropriate, the circumstances are in line with that procedure. In addition, there are general and specific reasons for prior detention, and if there are general reasons, then in order for the court to place a person in pre-trial detention, the particular reasons must also exist. This is what I spoke about at the plenary session of the Parliament. If someone looks at the relevant sections of the Criminal Procedure Act, you will see that they are the basis for my answer. What will happen after the immunity is suspended? Obviously, it is an investigation, and as a result of the investigation, the Central Detective Attorney General will decide what will happen after the immunity has been suspended in the case of a Member who no longer has it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-169	Thank you very much, Mr Attorney General, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Attorney General. I didn't ask you that for a reason. You have just said very nicely and precisely what can happen and what coercive measures can be taken against someone and why it cannot be against someone with an immunity right. But you argued that nothing has happened to the Members so far, or even in the present case, because the destruction of the documents, the destruction of evidence, or the danger of escaping, the request for the suspension of immunity and the actual release, is so long that it is all at risk. But, Mr. Attorney General, they've been investigating this case since August, as it has been in the press. Since the beginning of November, all the other actors in this case have been in custody. You don't think in this case that the main character of the case continued to be in business with the Secretary of State since November, the Secretary of State didn't know that something was wrong here. Be nice to tell me why you've been waiting for immunity to be suspended since November. Why did you wait a month to get away with this and not endanger the investigation by not doing this for a month? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-12-13-171	Dear Parliament, The Attorney General is entitled to a rebuttal answer. Here you go, Attorney General.
u2021-12-13-172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, An investigation has its rules, investigative and investigative issues, which in any case influence when, how the authority should do it. You mentioned that you had been in custody since the beginning of November, and then you were arrested by the President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court and others. That's right, that's what happened. However, the investigation is not such that everyone should be treated in the same way overnight, or that the same procedural action should be carried out against everyone. If we're just looking at November, I think it's mid-December now that the Central Detective Attorney General's Office was working extremely fast. See how long an investigation is, by the way. He has already tabled the motion in just over a month, so we can only be proud that it works legally and effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-173	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for your answer. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Sándor Bodó granted the right to reply to his absence. I'm asking you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2021-12-13-174	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2021-12-13-175	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-176	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, The designated leader of the left, Péter Márki-Zay, apparently wants left-wing economic policy, which shows both in terms of the minimum wage and in terms of the reduction of the rent. Presumably, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left did not speak to the air when he said that he would abolish the minimum wage. In his declaration, he literally said: "I am very liberal in economic matters, and I do not necessarily consider the minimum wage necessary. The minimum wage, if we agree, has a lot of drawbacks. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In contrast to this left-wing thinking, we consider it an important achievement in the Fidesz fraction that the wage agreement was signed last Monday, resulting in a minimum wage of HUF 200,000 and a guaranteed minimum wage of HUF 260 thousand. This also means that the minimum wage will be higher in Hungary than the average wage under the previous government. Péter Márki-Zay is not on the side of the Hungarian people on the issue of reducing the rent. In his opinion, it was foolish of him to reduce the rent at the time. According to the left-wing leader, we need to reduce the overhead by consuming less gas, less electricity and less water. S Márki-Zay insults the voters, opposers of illegal immigration and supporters of the reduction of the rent. I quote: He compared them to mushrooms kept in the dark and fed with manure. The Fidesz fraction rejects left-wing energy policy and is committed to protecting the result of the reduction of the overhead. And here it can also be said that if the government introduced the market prices forced by the left, an average Hungarian family would pay HUF 386 thousand more than now. Dear Secretary of State, For the civilian government, it is important to increase the minimum wage and to protect the results of the reduction. And in light of what has been said, why does the appointed left-wing leader attack the government's minimum wage increase and reduction? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodo. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, To be honest, I cannot answer your question as to why the opposition Prime Minister's candidate is attacking the reduction of the rent and the issue of the minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum wage. In connection with the reduction of the rent, he probably thought that it was a clever saying that if people bathe less, they would lose less water, lie down early, and they would need less electricity. But I think that this is such an unworthy approach at the turn of 2021-2022 that it is perhaps not worth wasting any more. What's even more serious is that it seems to be taking the issue of minimum wage and guaranteed minimum wage off the table with a squint. He's taking it off with a swipe of his hand, and maybe he's making it look like it's a result of some kind of government dictatorship or a decision, which is completely out of the question. [[16.50]] You probably haven't heard of the fact that the Contest and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government will be able to reach an agreement for several days, several hours, with hundreds of pages analyzed, in a fortunate case. So I would like to emphasise once again: employers' and employees' representatives, the main players in the labour market, agree on the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. This is what has happened in this case, and it is not the first time that the parties have fallen on each other's necks, slammed into each other's palms, and said that yes, this should be the case, but it was based on lengthy analyses that, indeed, the minimum wage and the guaranteed wage were increased by 20 percent compared to the previous period. In order for the Hungarian economy to be able to take the path chosen, it is quite clear that there was a need for wage increases and wage increases, and with this, as I stress, employers and workers identified as candidates for the opposition Prime Minister, it seems not. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-179	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-180	Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, we must do everything we can to preserve the results of the reduction of the wage and the increase in the minimum wage, and unfortunately I am not surprised that the opposition is indeed ignoring the fact that good cooperation between professional organisations and the government has created the agreements that the government has concluded over the past two weeks. We should also remember that left-wing governments were on the side of multinationals and large energy companies against Hungarian consumers, as electricity and gas prices were increased 15 times between 2002 and 2010. So thank you very much for your answer, which I accept. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-181	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-13-182	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is, as the Member said, and allow me to draw the House's attention to one more important point regarding the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, in relation to your question. We are talking not only about the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, but also about higher wages. In order to avoid wage disruption in the employment system, it is clear that the other wages will also increase. It's unlikely that it can keep up with the 20 percent rate, but a wage recommendation, two figures, has been formulated by the participants in the trial. That is, if the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, is attacked by the entire wage system, and if the Hungarian wage system is not in order, it is not predictable, it cannot be calculated, then the entire Hungarian economy is in danger, anarchy may be approaching. Obviously, we have to resist this, so I think that the system of a well-established minimum wage, guaranteed minimum wage, wage recommendation, whatever the opposition's candidate for Prime Minister, must be maintained. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-183	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, We are now at the end of the discussion of the immediate questions, and now we are going to discuss the questions. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. The full renovation of the Haller House in Gyöngyös requires state aid. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Haller-Berényi-Orczy Castle in Gyöngyös is the oldest building in Gyöngyös, looking back centuries to the time of Maria Theresa, what functions it has performed in the past centuries, there has already been a casino here, the building of the Heves County Economic Association. Here I have to mention the person of Sándor Wiltner, who is inexorable in relation to the health care in Gyöngyös, who donated the southern wing of the building to the Mátra Museum, in particular, at Petőfi utca 30. It is now state-owned and the Natural History Museum maintains a warehouse there. Great news has recently arrived in the city of Gyöngyös, since HUF 351 million is available for EU development in order to refurbish this building and complex of buildings. Out of this HUF 351 million, community spaces will be created for NGOs, pensioners, cultural associations, and rent apartments will also be established. However, of this amount, the municipality can only renovate two thirds of the building, i.e. municipal property, one third of which, unfortunately, public property will not be renovated. I am asking you, and I am asking you through the government so that the government can support the initiative that the head of the Natural History Museum and the municipality, together, support together, so that the state can provide additional resources and additional resources so that not only two thirds of the building, but all of it, can undergo a complete reconstruction, thereby returning the old glory of the building that would be one of the most beautiful buildings in Gyöngyös and, moreover, of civil organizations and apartments. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2021-12-13-185	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-186	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am pleased with your question, because on the one hand, it is really important that as many of our built heritage shine in the old light, and on the other hand it shows what happens when a left-wing politician encounters reality. If this were to be raised by a right-wing politician, it is always said that there are unnecessary prestige investments, from the Castle to the Castle Program, that all such renovations are said to be expensive, only to have large amounts of construction in Hungary. But I'm glad you're finally meeting the voters, meeting the reality. [[Robert Honkers: Me?]] As did those fellow politicians. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't joke!]] Those who called the stadium constructions the loudest, then they cheered for the Hungarian team from the first lines. Well, thank God you guys get the sparks of sobriety sometimes. I have some good news, Mr honourable Member, because, as far as I know, there are HUF 519 million of tender funds available, so a much higher amount within the TOP, which we can ensure to the settlement, indeed, in order to begin the renovation of most of the building. So we hope that a much larger, much more spectacular renovation will be able to take place in a measurable way compared to the previous period. Part of the Mátra Museum is located in the property called Wiltner House, under number 30 Petőfi Sándor Street, as you said, this is not part of the TOP, but there are various grants, which are part of the renovation of the permanent museums and the built cultural heritage every year. I hope, at first, that this is a sum of more than half a billion forints, from which the renovation can begin, and this was not before, I do not quote what you say about European Union funds, what they serve, it is also seen here, in this example, that this is for public purposes, that it can provide assistance in various cities and in various settlements. So now the urban part can be renewed from public ownership, public funding or central funding, and I hope that, when this is completed, there will be later stages, the national government will guarantee this. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-187	Thank you for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing the national assets:, Why make the strike of air traffic controllers impossible? It's an address. In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Sándor Bodó will answer the question. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-12-13-188	Thank you very much. Mr President, Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: I would like to ask my question as an individual representative of the district. So, Mr Secretary of State, you must remember that air traffic controllers were preparing for an indefinite strike in July this year, because despite years of negotiations, they could not agree on the trade union and the State HungaroControl Zrt. However, the strike was simply banned and essentially banned by a last-minute government decree, thus taking away from air traffic controllers the fundamental right to cease work, which is even named by the Fundamental Law. A final vote on the proposal that does not maintain the full ban is expected to take place at this meeting, but it sets a high level of service that resembles everything but strike. In addition, there is a strong financial threat to the bill: if, on a strike, the managers would not meet the level of service set by Fidesz, they would have to assume financial responsibility for the damage to HungaroControl and the airlines. What does that mean? It means that the government is more important to protect its own company and the profits of large multinational airlines than the interests of Hungarian workers. And if that wasn't enough, we'd be voting on HungaroControl Zrt. as well. One hundred percent of his stock package is out of the exclusive national wealth, which gives Parliament the authority to start with this company whatever it wants, whether it's restructuring or selling. [[17.00]] Dear Secretary of State, Please respond to why the right of air traffic controllers to strike is being denied, as well as what their plan is with HungaroControl Zrt. Thank you for your reply and I look forward to it.
u2021-12-13-189	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State, and thank you for your cooperation, and I hand over the chair of the meeting to Vice-President Lezsák. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-12-13-190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and My answer is briefly that the government doesn't make it impossible, but let's get into the details. Obviously, all countries have strategic interests and, in order to enforce them, national-owned companies are needed to guarantee this. In this situation, I believe that air operators, air traffic provision, are a national strategic value and interest that clearly requires special rules. By the way, you have said very correctly that it is not a complete ban at all, but only the provision of an adequate quality of service. What's behind this? Well, let's take a look. There's obviously a personal air traffic, there's a cargo-air traffic, but there's obviously also a NATO expectation that, you know, there might be less talk about. So the conditions under which machines operate through the Hungarian airspace, the rules under which they operate, are obviously very visible and we need to know, and in this situation, obviously, there is a very high level of expectation that is expected in terms of functionality. Therefore, with all due respect to air traffic controllers, I am quite certain that without them there would obviously be a very different life, that aircraft would not be able to take off, or that they would probably be able to travel with large detours; obviously, it is also for the safety of the people on earth to be prepared professionals, but obviously there is a very high level of expectation of what is being formulated along the strike. Therefore, along the Hungarian strategic interests, maintaining the service of high quality is essential. Thank you for your understanding. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-191	Thank you, Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State. I salute my fellow Members. Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question:, Did the corrupt Pál Völner profit from the evicted? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Varga has the floor.
u2021-12-13-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I am deeply sorry that the Attorney General is running away from the Völner case, and I fear that the moment will soon come when she will have honest, confessional answers so that I will not have to testify. But we know very well that the executor's system has been modified before, the Orbán regime has shaped it for its own good, and we can see that the 2-5 million paper bag bribes are also linked to implementation, so there are a number of questions to be answered. We already know that the corrupt Fidesz Secretary of State, Völner, has made some clever arrangements for these vile funds, and we want to know exactly what, and we need to know, Mr. Secretary of State, what exactly did Völner do at the time. For example, did Völner have influence, decision-making power to auction apartments, evict families? Was there anyone who could stay, and someone who had to leave his apartment under all circumstances, who they took his property from, took the lid from his head? For 2 to 5 million forints, occasionally, you've been messing with human fates? Is that so? Where was the limit, with what debt did they decide to keep that person or family alive or to destroy it? Mr. Secretary. We know that, unfortunately, many have committed suicide as a result of the implementations, seeing that they are facing total poverty and hopelessness. Many families have lost their children because they are in public care, saying that their own family cannot maintain the living conditions necessary for their healthy development. Could it be that Fidesz Völner, who beat his breasts with his Christianity, destroyed a multitude of Hungarians and families for his own growth? Is that really true? Please respond, Secretary of State, these questions are covered by the investigation against the Secretary of State. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Did Paul Völner win the evictions? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-12-13-193	Thank you, Congressman Varga. I give the floor to Secretary of State Robert Répássy. (Dr. Adam Steinmetz in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2021-12-13-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry you haven't been here in the last hour, because I've answered several of the questions you've asked, and let's face it that your written questions are actually allegations, and I can't answer those allegations, and I'll be able to answer them in criminal proceedings. But as far as the point is concerned, honourable Member, as a politician of the Democratic Coalition, I can safely say to you that the dangers you have listed, which lie in the hands of debtors, foreign exchange lenders, are largely the crimes of the government period in which your party president was the Prime Minister, because... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: So now you're robbing them again!]] as foreign currency lending was released in those days [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Rob them once more!]] has been released 40-fold [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the number of foreign exchange loans increased by 40-fold [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Rob the poorest!]] So our government had to remedy foreign exchange credentials [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Almost succeeded! You almost did it! Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] We have tried to mitigate threats and by several laws. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I will not repeat, but again I can say that if you look at the minutes of the Parliament, I have listed those measures. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] which was taken by the government to save foreign exchange credentials. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The pact is not with the banks!]] As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, this is not the Ministry of Justice's jurisdiction, and the Minister of Justice has made it clear that everyone is equal before the law, the laws apply to everyone. The independent prosecutor's office will conduct the investigation, and then you and we'll all find out what happened and how it happened. Of course, responsibility will be decided by the court. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-195	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, Head of the Group, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice a question: "Do you take responsibility for what has happened within your ministry? It's an address. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the Group, has the floor.
u2021-12-13-196	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think it is infinitely outrageous that in such a case, when it came to the highest levels of corruption in the Ministry of Justice, the Minister is not here and does not answer the questions personally, and puts you in front of him as a kind of shield. I think that we can accept only one explanation for this, that if the Minister is not here because he is considering his resignation. My first question concerns the fact that this is the case, so it is precisely how and with what justification the Minister will make her resignation. It turns out that the President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court has established a corruption relationship with Pál Völner, your predecessor, and it also turns out that he has practically used the Ministry apparatus for various acts of corruption and has exercised his privileges within the Ministry apparatus. It also turned out that even in the case of proposals to be announced, he acted in accordance with the request of the President of the Faculty and used his influence, we know that he received about HUF 83 million in bribes, and we also know that decisions were made during executive appointments when the candidate had no executive experience, and that the candidate had preceded those who achieved a higher score in the tenders. I would like to ask the Secretary of State that he does not think that the Minister's perfect incompetence shows that this could be done within the Ministry for a long time. Have you examined who his accomplices were and how many accomplices have been involved in this case, who have worked with Paul Völner and the chairman of the executive faculty in the case of these shameful acts? And what responsibility could the Minister have in particular in this matter? Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-197	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2021-12-13-198	Thank you for the floor. Here it has been mentioned several times that the Minister for Justice is not present. I would like to inform you that you are participating in an official European Union programme in Italy and represent Hungary's interests on behalf of the Hungarian Government. And by the way, he took care of his replacement. As far as your questions are concerned, the Attorney General has learned from a statement from the DA's office about the serious suspicions raised against the Secretary of State. [[17.10]] The D.A. initiated the suspension of immunity, the Secretary of State resigned within hours, and the Minister of Justice agreed with this resignation, and the Ministry of Justice cooperates with the investigating authority in any way within the framework of criminal proceedings, who is currently the prosecutor's office, which is the prosecution's investigation in this case. But obviously, the case can only come to this condition if the Parliament decides to suspend immunity. So the Minister of Justice has taken the necessary steps in accordance with the law. The Secretary of State, by the way, carried out these cases with independent responsibility according to the Ministry's internal organisation. So the internal organizational order, the public minister's order, regulated the question of who has the responsibility, and the Secretary of State acted on its own. All the questions that need to be clarified will be brought to justice. I didn't warn him to make a conviction based on suspicion. I reminded your fellow Members that the President of DK had already been charged with prosecution and that the proceedings had finally been terminated. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-199	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, would you like to ask the Minister of Justice a question, as to whether the government will make up for the extortion of people who have been evicted in the case of corruption involving the Fidesz mafia? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Tordai, notary, is the subject.
u2021-12-13-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As is well known, your predecessor, Pál Völner, former Deputy Minister of Justice, appointed the bailiffs in a corrupt procedure, and for this he occasionally received 2-5 million forints in paper bags as a reward. Thus, Völner, Pál had a broad power to decide on the appointments of the Court's executive staff, as well as on the legislation in this area. The main victims of these corrupt decisions are the thousands of evicted people, the over three thousand families each year whose apartments and houses were sold at depressed prices, often at starting prices. The judicial enforcement market has been the most vulnerable sector in the country for decades, as the law gives executors very strong powers. Abusing these licenses, collaborating with potential buyers, members of the enforcement mafia with Fides have in many cases damaged vulnerable debtors, in many cases making these people completely land-traveled, often chasing them into suicide. Mr. Secretary. Does the Ministry of Justice plan to review the decisions of the executives placed in the position by Völner, Pál? Are you willing to make up for the people who have suffered serious financial damage because of the executive mafia and the Fidesz mafia that's intertwined with it? And you said that your minister agreed with the resignation of Paul Völner. Can we consider this agreement to be his own resignation? When will the moment finally come when you face your own completely obvious responsibility in this case, take your hat and leave? I look forward to your reply.
u2021-12-13-201	Thank you, Mr Tordai notary, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2021-12-13-202	Honourable Congressman, I do not think it is right to use this criminal procedure to call into question legal enforcement. But the laws are clear. If there is a criminal offence in an enforcement procedure, then, of course, those executions are invalid and invalid. But we can't determine that at this moment. If there's been a crime here, and it affects enforcement itself, then it will be corrected by the law. As regards the decisions of the Ministry and the Minister, on the one hand, I have already indicated that this was regulated by an internal system of organisation and operation, by the way, by a normative ministerial order as to who has jurisdiction in this matter, and that the resigned Secretary of State has dealt with these matters with independent responsibility. This task is no longer the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, it has been transferred to the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities from 1 October following the decision of the Parliament. Therefore, only this new authority can make any correction, since it is within its purview. Not only did the Minister agree with this resignation, but, as I indicated in my previous replies, the Ministry of Justice cooperates with the investigating authority within the framework of the Criminal Procedure Act, ensuring that this investigation is conducted independently and impartially, and then, after being held accountable, we can draw conclusions. I believe that the Minister and the Ministry will do everything in their power to ensure that this investigation is ongoing and that the process is monitored by the Minister. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-203	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsófia Koncz, Member of the Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: When is the Tokaj Bridge expected to be built and what further improvements are expected in the Tokaj-Hegyalja region? It's an address. Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz has the floor.
u2021-12-13-204	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Infrastructural developments are essential for boosting the economy in order to catch up with the areas concerned and create new jobs. These developments will make the aspirations of the people living there a reality, ensure sustainable development in the long term, and increase the population-preservation power of the region and contribute to an even better quality of life. Moreover, areas with economic potential for industrial performance are connected. Thanks to the government's support, Queen Elizabeth of Tokaj's Tisza Bridge and the renovation of the roundabout were recently handed over to traffic in my constituency. The inhabitants of the region have long been waiting for such an important development, making tourist destinations safer and accessible even by bicycle. Tourism and the economy will therefore increase even more effectively in the region concerned. Although it is only a few days after the Tokaj bridge was handed over to traffic, we know that due to the huge tourist development of Tokaj-Hegyalja, much of the work is still ahead of us. The tourist destinations we set are not compatible with the freight traffic coming and passing to and from downtown Tokaj, which makes the daily lives of people living in Tokaj significantly difficult. In order to reduce the volume of freight traffic in the downtown of Tokaj and in the wine region of Tokaj as part of the world heritage, it is necessary to build a bridge and bypass road for the relief of the Tokaj bridge. I believe that the wonderful natural features of the region, world-famous wines, and ongoing developments such as the construction of bicycle roads, the unprecedented development of roads and the development of Bodrog water tourism in the future [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] make it one of the most popular tourist destinations and centres in the country. Therefore, with all due respect, when is the construction of the Tisza Bridge in Tokaj expected? [[The president's ringing again.]] and what further improvements are expected in Tokaj Mountain. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-205	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2021-12-13-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for your question. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the strengths of an area's development are transport routes. This is the case in Tokaj and its surroundings, the development of the road network is absolutely decisive for the future of the region. Therefore, this idea meets with the idea of the Government of Hungary, because in the last decade only a specific number of 6,000 kilometres of roads have been renewed in Hungary, and perhaps one of the most important aspects of this is you, and as a representative elected in a rural area, we can testify that we have also paid special attention to the lower roads. [[17.20]] Obviously, the main routes are very important, but lower routes are also very important, and here, when we think about development, this is also a very serious aspect. Therefore, the government has clearly put together a HUF 150 billion development package for Tokaj and its region, which we have to say in the country to develop into the third largest tourist zone, obviously after Budapest and after Lake Balaton. In this spirit, the development of the section of Highway 37 between Gesztely and Szerencs is taking place, and the project will build a two-track, higher-speed, secure main road from the two-way lanes of almost 20 kilometres. The expected date of entry into service of the road section is spring 2023. What you have asked me in particular is that the preparation of the section of road 39 between Encs and Tiszagyfalu, including the new Tisza Bridge, is how the preparation of the current planning procurement process is going to take place, and these improvements are expected in the first quarter of the planning contract, i.e. urgent, soon, but now within a reasonable distance. Thank you for asking. I wish you good work in your constituency. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-207	Thank you, Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Will the road bypassing Kunszentmárton be built? It's an address. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor.
u2021-12-13-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, For the first time in early August 2020 I asked you for information in writing on the establishment of a road bypassing Kunszentmárton, as at that time my fellow Member of Parliament István Happy found such a quote in the debate on the budget - I think it is very important that the road bypassing Kunszentmárton to Szentes is able to start this investment. This is also possible under the 2021 budget. End of subpoena. Since such a item was not included in the budget, I wondered how my fellow Member came to this conclusion. However, the Secretary of State Schanda was unable to provide a concrete statement in his brief reply, because such a item was not included in the budget at the time, so he tried to reassure him that the road development was made from HUF 3200 billion in the road programme launched in 2016. Looking at the Annex, 108 items are listed, but Kunszentmárton is not included in these items. Then, in December 2020, I asked you another question, so that, in January, Secretary Schanda, in her six-strands of responses, would remove the subject from you with even more meaningless phrases. Now, on 7 December, on the website of magyarepitok.hu we were pleased to read that there is a node at Kunszentmárton at the M44, but unfortunately there is not a word about the bypassing of Szentes here. Dear Secretary of State, Since August 2020, you have been telling people living in and around Kunszentmárton that the bypass road will be built, but we do not know about their factual commitment so far, and 2021 is almost over. Therefore, please answer clearly: will the road bypassing the Kunszentmárton ever be built towards Szentes or not? If it's built, when? I look forward to your specific reply.
u2021-12-13-209	Thank you very much, Congressman Csányi. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2021-12-13-210	Thank you very much for your question, Congressman. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I think that when the answer to a comprehensive concept is given, perhaps it is an insult to consider something similar to a general nonsense. Obviously road construction, like all other useful activities, must be done in a system. In this system, there are basic parameters which must be met. These have been said here. Obviously, the availability of the four-track section, the availability of county seats, the accessibility of industrial centres, so this is all a very important aspect and an absolute professional response. How and how the specific question has been answered so far is obviously your interpretation, but I can now inform you that, in the case of the section of main road 45 avoiding Kunszentmárton, the contract for carrying out the preparatory work is expected in the quarter of 2022 and the final building permit is expected to be available in the second half of 2023. Obviously, I know that road construction is one of the most urgent tasks in Hungary, and thinking here in months or even in half a year seems to be a very long, distant period, but believe me, in order to achieve proper professional work, planning, public procurement and preparation of implementation are essential. Please support this construction locally as an essential element of government ideas in the development of the side road network. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-211	Thank you very much, Secretary Bodo. Dear Parliament, We have one more question. Csaba Nagy, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: what can rural small settlements expect in the Hungarian Village Programme in 2022? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Nagy has the floor.
u2021-12-13-212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, In April 2018, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced in western Baranya County, Western Baranya, in Vajszló, that a complex programme was planned to support small settlements. The Hungarian village program was called for, which specifically addresses local, small-scale needs and problems, thus committed to increasing the number of villagers, improving their quality of life and, in this context, developing settlements. The implementation of the Hungarian village programme started in 2019 and its 4 pillars complement each other to strengthen the attractiveness of the villages. The programme started in 2019 with 16 target areas and a budget of HUF 150 billion, the budget for the 22 calls announced in 2020 was already over HUF 210 billion, while in 2021 there was more than HUF 250 billion available for 14 calls. The three-year total budget of the Hungarian village is more than HUF 600 billion. The aim of the program is to alleviate the disadvantages of small settlements under 5000 people, in which 170 settlements of my constituency are affected. Since the start of the programme, nearly 600 successful applications have been implemented in my constituency in recent years, worth about HUF 6 billion, which is financed by purely state aid, i.e. 100% by the Government of Hungary. Thanks to the program of the Hungarian village, some local development of local importance can already be implemented in almost all small settlements in Western Baranya, which contributes to the development of community transport, community life, the strengthening of municipal tasks, the modernisation of educational, social and health services. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what the small rural settlements can expect in connection with the Hungarian village programme in 2022. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-213	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Nagy. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2021-12-13-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You can count on additional grants, as can the Baranya people, to whom I congratulate in particular because they have applied greatly over the past few years. Due to the fact that the population decline in small settlements has stopped, for example, it is possible to apply for the renovation of crèches. Fourteen things can be applied for next year, so there will be a lot of opportunities open again. So in addition to the nursery building, there will be a tender for the construction of outdoor community spaces, construction of motor vehicle storage structures, drainage canal systems, kindergarten building, village house, cultural and cultural house, medical office, public procurement, wage support, kindergarten playgrounds and public playgrounds. It will be possible to build a sidewalk in the framework of a tender, and it will rise to HUF 10 billion for the construction of a service apartment. It is very important that old buildings, which may be empty, can be renewed. There will be opportunities for a farm and village bus, it is also very important for the school building, gym development competition, as church community applications are also important for the acquisition of equipment, wage support or the development of church cemetery infrastructure. Of course, the village CSOK will continue to survive. This is also important, because everyone who is entitled to pick up the village CSOK in this area, for example, does not have to sneak there, as the left-wing people do with the CSOK, as they attack from one side and then pick up, but you can safely pick up and sign up. [[17 .30]] I congratulate all the municipalities that have undertaken and implemented the many applications over the past years, and I would just like to add that these 14 calls will be published on 3 January 2022. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-215	Thank you very much, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain criminal law and related other laws and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17438. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, who will present this, Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the Committee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-13-216	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/17438 on the amendment of certain criminal law and related other laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 22 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The package of proposals before us includes amendments to and other amendments to criminal law. The proposal for a comprehensive amendment is timely for several reasons, both because of the creation of more coherent substantive legislation, the promotion of more modern criminal proceedings and the fulfilment of EU and international obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of criminal substantive legislation requires coherence. The Btk. In the event of the execution of the criminal association referred to in paragraph 1, the possibility of unlimited relief is excluded from more than one facts, but, in the absence of explicit legal provisions, unlimited relief may be granted in the event of an offence being committed in a criminal organisation. The criminal organisation is the most serious legal form of organised crime, and therefore it is important that criminal material legislation does not allow unlimited relief in the event of crime in the criminal association, so that there is no possibility of unlimited relief in the case of a more serious social crime than in the criminal association, nor should it be possible in the criminal organisation. Dear House, As I have already said, the proposal before us also requires compliance with EU and international legal obligations. These include, inter alia, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage necessary for compliance with the provisions of the Convention in connection with the draft law on the publication of the Council of Europe Convention on Cultural Heritage Crime and the Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. modification of certain facts, namely the destruction of monuments or protected cultural objects, theft, destruction, embezzlement and unjust acquisition. Dear Parliament, In addition to the above, the bill before us includes a number of technical amendments and legislative amendments, as well as compliance with constitutional and judicial decisions and the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Since this comprehensive amendment aims to make our legal system more coherent, to incorporate practical experience and to eliminate the various anomalies, I think that the proposal must be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-217	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] Now or later? [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Later.]] Later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2021-12-13-218	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Life is rather strange, because the presentation of this bill was presented by former State Secretary Pál Völner, and how interesting it is that in this amendment to the bill, measures or new proposals that we hope will not have to apply to him, since this proposal is about excluding unlimited relief from the criminal organisation and other rules that apply to such serious crimes. In their judgment, let us hope that he will never be prosecuted. Indeed, life has produced quite interesting things, but the fact is that this criminal law-related legislative amendment proposal has come to the House every four months with a number of laws on the basis of 162 pages, and I have to say that I find the Fidesz government's work on the preparation of a criminal law bill to be extremely outrageous in the last three and a half years, because I have calculated that every four months there has been a legislative amendment package on criminal law in the House; that is, therefore, not a rethink of a rule, but a complete, comprehensive package of proposals that make criminal law-related laws completely untraceable, or can be said about this proposal, and that the large part of this proposal that we are now amending is a rethinking of the new provisions that we are making during the Orbán government and the elimination of coherence problems. The biggest problem with this legislative process, in which the Ministry of Justice is, by the way, at the forefront, is that it is now trying to resolve the confusion it has created with new laws, and is trying to resolve the created confusion of employees, i.e. law enforcement employees, judges, law enforcement workers and all those officials, which is simply unacceptable in the process of legislation. This proposal simply contains a lot of nonsense, and I could just say this now in not four minutes, that what it is now doing with new coherence disruption solutions will be contrary to other measures, and that, during the new government or during the new parliament, the corrective proposals that will resolve the confusion created by this will be introduced. It has simply created a vicious circle in the creation of the Ministry of Justice and, in particular, legislation on criminal matters. So I have spoken now after the Commission's amendments because I would like to ask you, if a very old lawyer has been in the same position in the Ministry of Justice a long time ago, to do so, so that this attitude is lifted, and if you start to create a right in something, there should be mechanisms of action, various investigations before you put forward a proposal to prevent Parliament from having to renegotiate legislative proposals in a similar matter in three to four months' time. Clean up the mess, all of you, all of you. We all know that creating chaos is always the goal of those who want to create uncertainty and hide the essence. Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, as an old-new man, should try to put a new view in this regard in the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-219	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. The next speaker is Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz.
u2021-12-13-220	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The criminal-law amendment bouquet that is now ahead of us is a very comprehensive, extensive proposal that seeks to change a number of laws and laws, which is otherwise timely. Such amendments have been made, inter alia, to settle the financial interests of criminal proceedings and liquidation and to renew the structure of property. The aim is clear, to serve the overall lending interest, to ensure that the insolvency of the debtor undertaking is possible, and not to suspend the liquidation of the debtor firm. Another important area, which I would like to briefly mention, is the cooperation between justice and child protection in the procedure. Here, too, we need to move with age, the use of telecommunications devices such as e-mail, e-mail involvement in official contact is extremely timely and has been waiting for a long time. I would ask my fellow Members to support this. [[17.40]] Dear Parliament, We must also comply with EU rules and expectations. This is also answered by an amendment, a Council of Europe Convention on Cultural Heritage Crimes, which requires the amendment of the law on the protection of our cultural heritage. Overall, it can be said that we are talking about a package of proposals that will speed up, modernise, reduce bureaucracy and speed up the speed of getting to the bottom of things as soon as possible, so please support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-12-13-221	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Nitrai. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State Robert Répássy, who seems to want to use the opportunity to speak.
u2021-12-13-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for your comments, in particular for the supporting contributions. The Government, as announced at the committee meeting, supports the amendment of the Legislative Committee. I would also like to thank Mr Zsolt Nyitrai for drawing attention to the innovations of the law which, in his view, improve procedures. The criticism that a law previously proposed by the Government must now be amended or corrected, I acknowledge, and on behalf of any wallet, I can say that there is always a need for feedback from the law enforcement authorities to improve certain laws. In this case, it was also the case that the portfolio collected the comments, proposals from the law enforcement authorities, on the basis of which this law was subsequently submitted. Therefore, it should not be imagined that the Ministry of Justice corrects its own mistakes, but that the new situations created by life, by case law, must be corrected by such amendments. That is why I ask for the understanding of the congresswoman. There will always be a need for further correction, further correction, in criminal law law, because it would be irresponsible to see a mistake, if we knew that this was a problem in practice, and this error would not be corrected by the legislator. Now we're going to do something about improving the law. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-12-13-223	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the tax measures required in connection with the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022, as well as the discussion of the Commission's reports on the submission of certain other measures and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17668. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal is held as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-12-13-224	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the tax measures required in connection with the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022, as well as certain other measures, T/1766. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 29 votes to two, with no abstentions. Dear House, The bill before us will bring forward the measure described above by 1 January 2022 and will reduce the rate of social contribution tax by another 2 percentage points compared to the current rate by a total of 2.5 percentage points to compensate for the increase in the minimum wage. The rate is thus reduced to 13 per cent from 1 January 2022, with the simultaneous abolition of the 1.5 per cent vocational training contribution. The reduction in the employer's burden thus represents a total reduction of 4 percentage points, 2.5 percentage points of the social contribution tax and 1.5 percentage points of the vocational training contribution tax. From 1 January 2022, farmers engaged in vocational education and dual training will be entitled to the LXIX of 2021 on the amendment of certain tax laws from the social contribution tax. They may apply a discount according to rules already adopted by law. In the context of a reduction in the rate of social contribution tax, amendments are also needed in other tax laws, which are the following. The simplified public burden-sharing contribution reduces the rate of paying echo from 15.5 per cent to 13 per cent. In the case of taxable persons who choose to pay a lot of taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises, the basis for the benefits due to the full-time taxpayer is changed: the benefit base increases from HUF 102 thousand to HUF 108 thousand per month and from HUF 170 thousand to HUF 179 thousand in the case of taxable persons who choose to pay a higher lot tax. CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax In the context of the rules on the establishment of a consolidated tax base, the Act contains a rule that, where an individual is liable to pay a social contribution tax on a given income, assuming that it is not eligible as a cost or is not reimbursed to the individual, a reduced share of the income determined in relation to the rate of the social contribution tax should be taken into account as income. This reduction option is also included in the provisions for determining the tax advance. As a result of the reduction in the rate of the social contribution tax, the percentage in two of the provisions of the SAY Law is adjusted from 87 per cent to 89 per cent, and the rate of the small enterprise tax is reduced from 11 per cent to 10 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill on the House's table should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-12-13-225	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. I'm going to ask Mr. Izer Norbert, Secretary of State here on behalf of the authors, now or later? [[Izer Norbert: Later.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2021-12-13-226	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich die Meinung des Ausschusses in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlags mit Titel in Zu den steuerlichen Maßnahmen im Zusammenhang mit der Erhöhung des Mindestlohns und des garantierten Mindestlohns im Jahr 2022, und zur bestimmten anderen Maßnahmen 17668, force field. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express briefly the opinion of our committee at T/1766. on the tax measures required in connection with the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022, as well as the bill on certain other measures. At its meeting on 7 December 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed the bill on the agenda, on which it did not express its own intention to amend it. It is clear that nationalities native to Hungary are primarily affected by the reduction of the social contribution tax and the elimination of vocational training contributions in the context of the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022 via the national minority institution network. [[17.50]] The budgetary surplus of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as well as the budgetary savings of the 4 percentage points reduction, should be examined by institution, as it may vary significantly in absolute terms and percentage depending on the number of institutions employed, depending on the number of technical staff employed at the minimum wage, in particular ancillary staff. For the purposes of addressing the derogations, specific consideration should be given to national and local minority public education institutions. In the case of institutions in the maintenance of national minority self-governments, national self-governments have the possibility to make the necessary and proportionate budgetary transfers between institutions relatively flexible by amending budgets. In the case of national minority self-governments, this concerns some 25 ethnic public education institutions. National minority public education institutions maintained by local ethnic authorities are in a different situation, and there are currently 75 such institutions. Since 55 different local self-governments are the maintenance authorities, there is no possibility of fiscal transfers under the current legislation. Recognizing this, on the proposal of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, a HUF 350 million framework was adopted in the 2022 Central Budget Act, specifically to supplement the operating grant of the national minority public education institutions maintained by local ethnic authorities in 2022. Based on the budget adopted by the institutions for 2022, we will carry out a detailed, detailed survey of the operational difficulties and additional support needs of national minority public education institutions maintained by local national authorities in the first quarter of 2022. This exact needs assessment and additional support to be determined on this basis are all the more necessary, as the benefits of the new, normative and 30-35 percent more favourable status and average wage financing system introduced for the national public education institutions in 2013 have been significantly outweighed by the otherwise welcome and favourable decisions taken in the past eight years. Undoubtedly, there were, of course, measures to reduce costs against measures requiring surplus budgetary resources, but according to our calculations and surveys, the 4 percentage points of public burden reduction ahead of us will be the first year 2022 when decisions in different directions will be a positive salvo for national minority public education institutions, which we welcome, of course. On this basis, and taking into account all of this, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is set out in Annex T/1766. He agreed on the tax measures required in connection with the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022, as well as with the bill on certain other measures, which he proposed to this House for adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-227	Thank you very much, Mr Imre Ritter, German national representative. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Varga-Damm.
u2021-12-13-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/1766. The bill on the minimum wage for 2022 and tax measures can indeed be supported when we talk about how workers' burdens are reduced. However, as we can see, in this proposal the burden of employers is significantly reduced and the burden of workers is very low. It is understandable that the government's intention is that the minimum wage is rising and, of course, the contributions are increasing, and the government's intention is that people should not be employed black but formally, so that the reduction of contributions may compensate for the fact that they are not employed black because the employer may not be able to bear the public burden on wages. So I understand this, but in a 27 percent VAT country where there is an unforgiving amount of tax revenue from trade and the turnover of services to the State, I think that the burden on workers could have been reduced at least as much as that of employers. I don't understand it anyway, and I'm telling your financial portfolio representative that the reason why there was a government period when the cost of living was tax-free, so the income that served life support was tax-free. Today, in Hungary, it can be said that to survive from one day to another, it takes about 100 thousand forints a month. We are biological beings, the conditions of our survival cost money, such as food, water, cleansing, clothing and cover over man's head in cold weather. These costs are not income. The cost of re-production of our biological existence is not income, so I ask that the financial government begin to transform the personal income tax system with this approach, because I think that there is very little tax revenue that would be lost, but it would be extremely gratifying for citizens to have at least those who have so little income not paid taxes. Good governance is not only about keeping more income than people, but also about not creating a situation for the budget to fall. Over the past period, a terrible level of public debt has been created, with a threefold increase in the budget deficit compared to the pre-coronal virus epidemic. It is quite clear that this proposal is also preparing for the election of 22 and 22 respectively. If we were now in December 22 and had already won the election, we would not have been making such tax amendments, but rather the opposite, in some way trying to compensate for so far, without resources. Here, during the holidays, you might want to consider the financial portfolio of what a gamble you are putting the Hungarian people into. Almost all proposals about taxation, some kind of income or income are made in a charitable way, wanting to win the election. But you must never forget that the same Hungarian people are going to pay for the burden they are now creating by overspending. How big a gamble is this? ! And I think that all the resources needed to restore this crooked system will certainly also have to be realised by the next government in order to recover the funds for the thief oligarchs. Because people who live on wages and salaries will not be able to finance all the gambling and all the overspends that are already paying a very serious tax on their incomes that this government has done. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-12-13-229	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz.
u2021-12-13-230	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, thanks to our joint efforts, the Hungarian economy has been performing better, in many respects we are becoming champions in Europe. Growth is a joint Hungarian success, so everyone should benefit from it. In 2010, when we received the responsibility for governance, one of our most important commitments was to create a work-based economy. The principle is that if there's work, there's everything. Today we have a record of our countrymen. Since 2010 we have continuously reduced labour taxes; since 2010 the rate of labour taxes has decreased by a quarter in Hungary. We're following the principle of giving people jobs instead of aid. In the last 11-12 years, the increase in the minimum wage has been 172 percent. As a result of the recent wage agreement, the guaranteed minimum wage will be HUF 260,000 and the minimum wage will rise to HUF 200,000. For minimum wage, 300,000 people work in Hungary, and the minimum wage for skilled workers affects 800,000 of our countrymen. [[18.00]] At the same time, we have reduced taxes and levies on employers, as this is a complex system and the balance must be maintained. Dear Parliament, While on one side there is a very serious increase in the minimum wage, on the other hand, on the left, Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, does not consider the minimum wage necessary, pushing hundreds of thousands of people into uncertainty. I find that a strange statement made by the Left Prime Minister's candidate. Once again, while on one side, on the Fidesz-KDNP, the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage and an increase in the minimum wage, on the other hand, the abolition of the minimum wage on the left is the offer. Here's your choice. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-231	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Nitrai. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2021-12-13-232	Mr President, Dear House, It took so long for my fellow Member, Mr Fidesz, to speak. Otherwise, there is a proposal before us where we can support both the rise in the minimum wage and, where appropriate, the reduction of the employer's burden, and there is no debate between us. It is a little frustrating when one of Europe's lowest, extremely low minimum wage campaigns Viktor Orbán and his team are campaigning, and after twelve years, to come up with the beating, top three minimum wage offer, with the promise of this, this is a certificate of poverty in itself. In this respect, I would therefore also encourage my fellow Member Nyitrai to be restrained, because unfortunately, if we have looked at the countries in the region since 2010, we will not find a country where wages have not increased to a greater extent than in Hungary. So I understand that inflation can and must be weighted, once again there is no debate between us, but the increase in Hungarian wages has also fallen compared to the countries in the region. I do not want to bring here the example of the cheap Romanian minimum wage, but, yes, at certain times it also goes by Hungarian. It is also important to see that, because of your consciously forint-slapping policy, if we look at the Hungarian wages in euro, and the national economy acquires a lot of articles for the euro, there has been a period in the last five years when the Hungarians' wages decreased in euro, despite the nominal wage increase in Hungary. That is the case, my fellow Member, because this is part of the whole picture. I take advantage of the fact that Mr. Secretary of State is here, and I'm going after Mr. President when I come to you, because there's probably going to be a closing or an answer here. Let's talk about constructive things. There is a relatively cheap solution, considered cheap by the economics industry, if we want to benefit low-income people, and I want to. What is the opinion of the Secretary of State on the return of the institution of the tax credit at least in respect of minimum wage workers? We can talk about your risks, there is no doubt that every intervention has a risk, but what I see is that in times of economic policy that I have not been so fond of, the minimum wage has not been taxed, and now it is taxing. We can see that this makes a really big difference for the hardest people in the world. I don't want to go into low-cost tactical directions, but in the context of the Völner case, we can also note that this government has, however, insulted the most difficult people with enforcement bans during the epidemic, but it may not have talked so much about the settlement of the minimum wage, for the last month or two, yes, when it is still campaigning with the promise of such a beating second and third minimum wage from behind, once again, after twelve years. I would also like to emphasise that I will support the increase in the minimum wage and the reduction in the burden on employers and workers in all circumstances. However, here is a responsible secretary of state, who is also responsible for providing sustainability responses on behalf of a government, telling us, for example, that in relation to the reduction of the socho, which is, by the way, a debateable, legitimate position, the 700 billion-dollar hole that was created in the budget in relation to pension expenditure, how the Government of Hungary intends to replace, solve and clog it, because we are talking about around 300-350 billion. One was due to the release of the socho, and the other was due to the introduction trends around the 13th month pension, but we can say without exaggerating that the pension register is no longer sustainable, the Hungarian budget has to make up for it in the future. The question, Mr State Secretary, is how and how the Government of Hungary is expected to develop an increasing degree of this from what and how. Because it is not possible that today's people, who bring catastrophic demographic data, are unfortunately disappointing, and I wish that was not the case in a country where, in an ageing society, we can expect that the number of people receiving pensions or pension benefits will continue to increase, we must be able to say from the side of the contributors how we will pay for this. I have an answer for this, and our wage union concept is capable of increasing the percentage of ever-increasing wages by increasing social, pension-like contributions, which could increase pensions. I don't see that answer on your side, I don't see this vision. We could also mention local governments when their compensation will be in what form, but I can see that in the EU record VAT country, in the country of record inflation, where the price of basic food and vegetables has gone through a brutal explosion, and unfortunately, this is expected to increase next year, these sustainability issues need to be answered. I would like to emphasise once again that, by the way, I would consider the tax credit to be a good tool, and it could be discussed, but then let us have this debate. At the same time, at least such a force could be applied to the VAT system, at least with regard to basic foods and child-rearing products. Mr Soltés, State Secretary, we also had a regular demographic debate. I would very much like to see the indicators finally improving, but I see that all over Europe, the articles needed to raise children are taxed with the most brutal 27 percent tax. In the country of the 27 percent diaper and baby food, it is very difficult to expect that Hungarian families will easily produce these costs. It would therefore also be appropriate to selectively apply these products to a slightly smaller load by going into the VAT system. Obviously, Hungary also seems to be losing the fight against inflation. We see that the MNB's ongoing interventions increase the burden of the credit-damaged, so the bank-loaners are constantly paying more, the repayments are increasing, but the bloody inflation doesn't seem to stop. They say that inflation is also increasing in parallel to economic growth. The thing is, this hasn't always been the case in the last two years. When the economy fell, inflation didn't take on such a negative figure. The fact is that in two years, if we average, the economy has increased by about 1 percent or even 1 percent in the period after the fall, but inflation has constantly hit and pressed the Hungarian people, especially in recent months. So what we see is that the grip is multi-directional. This proposal seeks to offer some relief on one side, but it does not answer sustainability issues, and on other fronts the government does not want to intervene in the interests of the Hungarian people. Therefore, these questions must also be answered if the principles, i.e. the increase in the minimum wage and the reduction of the employer's burden, are properly supported. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2021-12-13-233	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, who is preparing to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2021-12-13-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond briefly to what has been said in the debate, because we have almost repeated the debate that we had at the general stage. Mr Z. Kárpát has basically given the same arguments that I responded to in detail the other time. I would now like to respond to three short items. The first is why we do not reduce the tax burden on the employee side. In recent years, if we look at the essence of the six-year wage agreement implemented from 2016, it was that we can increase wages in a sustainable way by making it easier to raise wages from the company's side and gradually raising the minimum wage in parallel with the economic performance. This is the predictable, sustainable tax reduction policy that we have been able to implement over the past six years, and we are actually looking at the two final steps of this six-year agreement here at Parliament's table, so the two last steps can be taken. [[18.10]] Again, I say that the scheme was designed to create a sustainable tax reduction, since these tax reductions were made when real wages rose by 6 per cent in the economy, i.e. wages were able to rise dynamically, to a much higher extent than inflation, and tax reductions were made. This also answers Andrea Varga-Damm's first question of how to continuously increase wages and net wages. By constantly raising wage levels, and by the way, helping companies with tax reductions to produce this. The other category of issue, to which both Mrs Varga-Damm and Mr Z. Carpathian responded, is, in effect, a change in the single-key tax system. Both imports of the tax-free key and the tax credit would be virtually a step backwards from the once again highly functioning, one-key, proportionate tax system since 2010, the results of which are otherwise visible. Practically no more people have ever worked in Hungary than in the single-key tax system. We have a fair tax system, which does not punish excess performance and which does not punish more efficient work. I think it would be a mistake to withdraw from this. Finally, MEPs' speeches so that they can support the minimum wage increase. We have heard that there are proposals, such as the proposals made by President Márki-Zay, on the basis of which the minimum wage is not needed. I think that the minimum wage is necessary, and it is clear in the Hungarian economy how this mechanism works. As has already been said in the previous debate: the minimum wage is significantly higher than the minimum wage, but the increase in the minimum wage is, in fact, causing wage increases at levels much higher than the guaranteed minimum wage. Therefore, virtually all players in the Hungarian economy will face a higher wage if the minimum wage is raised to a higher level from 1 January. I think that the economy will be able to face virtually a general wage dynamic. Again, the conclusion of both the general debate and the current debate may be that in most comments, the tax reduction is otherwise supported by Members, and, if we think about it, we are talking about a tax reduction of HUF 750 billion, otherwise sustainable and financingable, and if we compare it with other tax measures that have already been decided but which will enter into force since 1 January 22, then we are talking about a tax reduction of HUF 1500 billion. I think that it is perhaps not an exaggeration to say that we are facing a historic tax reduction, and I call on Members to support the second half of this tax reduction, this 750 billion package, with their positive vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-235	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on financial and economic matters and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. The government referral is T/17670. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-12-13-236	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/17670, on the amendment of certain financial and economic laws in 2021. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 2 against and 7 abstentions. Dear House, The aim of the bill is to adapt to these constantly changing economic processes in the case of a number of economic and financial laws, in order to promote the protection of the economy that is still functioning and is constantly developing, following the relaunch of the domestic economy. According to the amendment of the Public Finance Act, the 2011 CXCV on Public Finances. The amendment of the Act provides for the possibility for central budgetary bodies involved in the implementation of the central budget to be a modern, as from 1 January 2022, in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. They can carry out their diverse tasks with a new system of public finances that meets the technological challenges of the 20th century. To this end, the legal basis of the system supporting the implementation of the central budget will be established, which will be the integrated IT system developed by the Hungarian Treasury, linked to the implementation of the central budget, which will also record and manage all financial, economic and accounting data. The Hungarian Treasury will manage and keep records of the claims, commitments and other payment obligations of these budgetary bodies on the basis of uniform data provided by budgetary bodies within the central sub-scheme. The main elements of the amendment to the Act on the status of the National Tax and Customs Office staff: the bill fundamentally amends the rights and obligations of candidates for officers, and, on the basis of the amendment, the relationship of candidates for officers, unlike the former candidate for a scholarship, is established by appointment by the Head of the NAV and the rights and obligations of the parties are determined by law in respect of all content elements. On the other hand, the appointment shall be given to the candidate officer no later than 15 days prior to the basic law enforcement training. In addition, the primary duty of the officer-designate shall be to prepare for the service of the law enforcement body in the duties of the officer-class. Ladies and gentlemen, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill should be supported, and I ask for your support in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-13-237	Thank you very much, Congressman László Vécsey. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author, Mr Péter Benő Banai, if he wishes to comment now or at the end. [[Péter Banai Benő: In the end.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Interventions by Members shall take place within the time limits on which the agenda is to be held. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2021-12-13-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/17670. Legislative proposal No 1 proposes to amend legislation on financial matters. Subject to standardisation, the proposal proposes that the financial funds of social security should be treated in the same way as those of centralised appropriations so that the amounts of appropriations not used by the end of the budget year will be transferred to the central budget on the last day of the budget year, thus ensuring that the financial funds of social security will not have a budgetary basis at the turn of the year. This issue is also an ongoing issue because we hear that the pension register is deficiting, and we hear that in the health register it is not possible to know exactly how much resources are available, because they are spread out in the different subsystems of the budget to such an extent that it is almost untraceable. One fact is that once this government has transformed the budgetary management of the health care system and the pension system, it is in order to constantly send a message to society that it is not sufficient to maintain the systems from incoming contributions. Of course, I would not have a problem if unused funds could be used by the central budget, but I think that society should be shown much more transparently that the contributions paid for the provision of health services and the contributions received to the financing of the pension and the unused resources are related to each other, in fact, they are in fact deficit. Washing together gives rise to the fear in society that the state will not be able to maintain these systems, even if citizens give their contributions disciplined. However, there is sufficient resources, the budget deficit is made up of sick and power-hungry government spending, there is a fear that these important systems, which maintain well-being for society, will work, while uncounted amounts of over-invoicing from budgetary resources will be spilled into private pockets. [[18.20]] Otherwise, I have no objection to the rest of the proposal: simplification, efficiency and a clearer formula are important. The excessive autonomy of the Atomic Energy Office poses a serious threat to me, and I do not understand that a financial bill 1. As an example of how this could be brought into the House. I would not ask the Secretary of State to say anything to me in this regard is none of his business. The issue of investment in Paks II, the question of nuclear energy, is a remote area with more power and autonomy, as this involves a huge lack of trust on the part of society and a restriction on the possibility of control in Parliament. We know and see that, on the issue of nuclear power, the government does not want to respond to Members in order, to involve Members in giving them a clearer picture. This proposal, in this way, to make this organisation even more an independent entity, I believe that today, under such circumstances, which, by the way, many of my fellow Members have said a lot in recent years, is dangerous. Therefore, I suggest that the government consider this one more time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-13-239	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Péter Benő Banai, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2021-12-13-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr László Vécsey gave an accurate account of the main points of substance of the motion before you for a final vote, so allow me not to present parts of the motion now, but to respond briefly to the points made by Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm. The provision put forward by the Member is in line with the fact that, as was said from January 2022, a single new 21st century. The IT system of the 20th century manages the expenditure and claims of central budgetary bodies. This single management also entails a change in the budgetary conceptual system. Indeed, as the Member said, social security funds do not have the concept of a so-called residual. What's the residue again? The residue is an amount planned but not used in a given year, which in some cases may be carried over to the following year. When does that matter? It is important if a resource is available for a particular purpose only in a given year, the goal has not been achieved in that year, all resources have not been used, but there is still a need for unpaid money, so it will be possible to transfer the funds. That's not what social security funds are about. The fact that the pension can be paid or that sickness or other benefits can be paid from health insurance is not determined by the exact amount of income received in a given year. The payment of pensions is determined by the amount to be paid to pensioners under the applicable law. According to the laws in force, the real value of pensions must be preserved and a pension increase of 5 per cent will be made from January 2022. This is the crucial part, and it is not whether the fund has a residue or not. If I may, I would also like to mention that for social security funds expenditure, the fact that it is to be accounted for in the form of so-called centralised appropriations means that, for example, housing subsidies, EU grants or public property transactions will be accounted for in a manner similar to that of housing subsidies. In a given year, the expenditure that is systematically defined in the relevant legislation must be paid, and such legislation determines the systemic payment. This means that every year there is a certain edition. I reassure everyone, the conceptual change, the introduction of a new IT system will have no impact on the expenditure of social security funds. As regards the suggestion made by the Member woman that she would find out exactly how much income the social security funds managed and how much expenditure was made in a given year, my reply is that, yes, in the context of the closing accounts, the Parliament gives an accurate picture of how the expenditure and revenue of the central government, including social security funds, were achieved in the previous year. We do not wish to change anything about this system. I hope that the new IT system, which is supported by the bill before you, will allow for a more precise statement and more precise planning than social security funds. In light of these, I propose to the honourable Parliament that you support the motion at a later stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-241	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain cultural and other laws and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17669. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-12-13-242	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/17669 amending certain cultural and other laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 29 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us includes, in particular, changes to legislation on cultural matters, but also on the practical and technical aspects of health, higher education and human policy. The proposal includes an amendment to the Act of Performing Arts in order to maintain the status of performing arts organisations in the maintenance of public-service trusts under the Act of Performing Arts, and not to be lost as a result of the change in the maintenance person. In order to maintain our memorial sites in a dignified manner, the draft extends the regulation of the law on the protection of cultural heritage to national memorial sites, thus providing them with a central budgetary resource. As a minor amendment, the bill also aims to standardise the regulation of memorial points and to integrate memorial sites into the system. Dear Parliament, The proposal also concerns health changes. The proposal provides for the designation of individual patient follow-up as a new data management goal for disease registers, and for the pandemic register, the processing of contact code in the personal data that can be identified and the conditions for reconnecting with health data in order to comply with data protection requirements. In addition, the legal conditions for training in the field of horse therapy and in the framework of the provision of horse services to disabled and injured persons and the provision of legal authorisation to do so will be settled. The medical rehabilitation body, the rehabilitation authority and the health insurance body performing incapacity review tasks will be able to access the necessary level of health data through the ESZT system in order to fulfil its statutory tasks. The proposal also provides for the amendment of the law on national higher education, which satisfies the regulatory requirement in practice related to the university model change. [[18.30]] During higher education conversions, it is necessary to clarify certain accounting rules for model-shifting institutions in order to establish a clear legal situation. In addition to the above, it is important to mention that the bill includes the creation of a statutory basis for a 5% increase in salaries for law enforcement administrative staff to be established for 2022. During the debate on previous legislative proposals and legislative amendments, the main emphasis was on raising the minimum wage and raising the guaranteed minimum wage, which was made possible by the good economic performance of the country. Wage increases have been a typical economic process in recent years, and we have seen continuous tax reductions in parallel. During the good economic situation and continuous wage increases, the government also paid particular attention to municipalities. In this area, we have a gap to replace, which this bill will now settle. Particular attention is paid to mayors' salaries, as in recent years in particular, this has fallen short of what is necessary in the light of continuous wage increases, and this bill also includes increases in mayor's salaries. It is particularly important and it seems to me particularly important that the bill takes into account the tasks to be performed on each type of settlement. I am also very pleased personally that, in particular, the wages and salaries of small town mayors are rising very significantly under the law. We know that small town mayors are those who can do a great deal for their settlement by means of their personal abilities and personal devotion, because there is no serious, well-paid apparatus behind the small town mayors, and the development of a settlement often depends on the quality of life of a settlement, how much the mayor of a small settlement can move the best forces of the settlement, how much he can bring the community to the service of good causes. It is therefore important to emphasise and to mention that, for example, for settlements with 500 inhabitants and for settlements with less than this number, the salary of mayors is increased by 74 percent; for example, the salary of the mayor of a settlement with a really small settlement category of 500 to 1500 people is increased by 63 percent; but mayors of settlements with a still small settlement category of 5 thousand people will also receive a 42 percent salary increase. So it is clear from this that, in recent weeks and months in the left-wing press, the various false news and awareness-raising announcements from left-wing local government associations do not hold up with the mayor's wage increases. The reality of the mayor's salary is the average salary increase of about 40 percent, which settles the mayor's salary situation. It is important to note that, as regards mayor salaries, the regulation leaves the categories set out in the law on local governments of Hungary intact, so the categories of settlements remain untouched, but the percentages related to each category vary: as I mentioned earlier, there is a significant difference between the types of settlements, namely small settlements and small settlement mayors. At the same time, there is no change in other salaries and salaries linked to mayor's salary, nor in the manner in which they are established. I would ask this House to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-243	Thank you very much, Congressman László Vécsey. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Mr Soltész, who is sitting here on behalf of the authors, whether he would like to comment now or at the end. [[For signal:]] It indicates that at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I now give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2021-12-13-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As an advocate and member of the Subcommittee on Public Education, Culture and Church Affairs of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, allow T/17669 to amend certain cultural and other laws. I would like to state our position with regard to bill No 1. On 7 December 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary put the draft law on the national minority agenda on the agenda on the agenda, and the Parliamentary Decision on certain house rules 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee of the bill is the resolution house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of its notification pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they were in conformity with the rules of the House of Decisions. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Commission's amendment, which closed the detailed debate, did not come to the bill, and our committee did not intend to make any amendments, so the Committee decided not to submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. The committee decided to close the detailed discussion of the bill on 7 December 2021 by 13 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no opposition. The report on the detailed debate was adopted by 13 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There are many settlements in Hungary where there are ethnic origins, but today they have moved, assimilated, but their churches, cemeteries, graves, memories and memories remain. In settlements where nationalities still live and there are historical monuments related to their lives, they deserve special attention. T/17669 on the amendment of certain cultural and other laws. The bill contains significant positive amendments to the nationalities that form part of the Hungarian nation, so they are welcomed and proposed for adoption by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-245	Thank you very much for Varga Simeon's voice on ethnicity. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2021-12-13-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/1766 bill is indeed a salad law which opposition representatives generally strongly protest against. Why do I say that? That's because we may be slowly bowing down to the salad laws when the government is submitting amendments to relatively similar legislative proposals in a package of laws. But in this proposal containing or at least in its title amending cultural laws, I have counted, as a legislative proposal, this proposal introduces eight areas which simply do not belong in any way to the cultural object. The proposal is about to start by amending the law on the lease and disposal of premises, and then the identification mark, and then there are two amendments to the health legislation, and then, at the fifth, we will reach the protection of cultural heritage. Then there is still a legislative proposal for performing arts organisations and MMA, then there is a local government, higher education, Parliament, Veterinary Chamber, amendment of the law of professional members carrying out law enforcement tasks, social security, mine, asset management, so there is everything in this. [[18.40]] I would like to highlight one of these, which is about the change in the power of the Hungarian Academy of Arts between the general meeting and the president, and that is that without a resolution of the general meeting, this bill raises the contract or commitment to HUF 150 million in presidential power. That's terrible. Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, This is an opportunity for serious abuse, which I think is, by the way, completely unnecessary for an organisation that supports artists who produce high-level results in cultural life. I can't imagine what it would be like for a president to convene a general meeting if he had to make a commitment of HUF 500 million. To do so, it must be something so serious, it must be a serious matter that the general assembly itself would have to negotiate for the cause. Now, think, fellow Members, you have an MMA president sitting in your office, and you can make individual commitments of virtually HUF 500 million without telling anyone! Mr Secretary of State, please make sure that you finally tell us in your reply why this is necessary, because this is not stated in the explanatory statement at all. Let's think about it. It's such a huge amount of money, even in the field of culture, that I can't imagine the president asking for it. There is something so secondary in the background, it is such a serious breach of the wealth to be removed from public opinion, I am almost certain, and I would just like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, that in future you do not create a situation in which Secretary Völner has fallen today. You never know, he's just gonna open his mouth. You never know who's gonna say something on a phone that you shouldn't have, but you didn't get lucky because they're listening. Let us not create, especially in an organization such as MMA, a huge increase in powers that makes it unlimited that public funds may not migrate on fair roads through the MMA! Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-12-13-247	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Soltész, on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2021-12-13-248	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Speakers! The opposition sees a devil in everyone today, and they already said they'd stop with everyone, make a deal or cuddle! So I'm not going to respond to Andrea Varga-Damm, but I'm going to respond to what the Member and the spokespersons have said. It should be pointed out, indeed, that the mayor's salary will also increase. All of this is also important to Andrea Varga-Damm, because then perhaps the mayor will not be tempted by the salary increase. The wages of Gergely Christmas rise to a million and a half forints, which, of course, is not a problem in itself, [[Turning to László Vécsey:]] Because, as you said, even in settlements of less than 500 people, and even in larger settlements, the remuneration will increase from 74 to 30 percent in a certain schedule. The mayors deserve it, they're doing a great job, their work is often so large that it runs from Monday to Sunday. We're glad we could make it. As is the clarification of the law on the management and protection of health and related personal data. The medical review of incapacity for work and the incapacity review initiated by the employer fall within the competence of the metropolitan and county government offices. In doing so, the reviewer doctor and the expert chief physician, the incapacity doctor, are currently doing their work on the basis of paper documentation. Unfortunately, as the pandemic situation has been delayed, this will be possible now through the Law, the Electronic Health Service Space. This is to simplify, speed and cost-effectiveness on-the-spot checks, taking into account the epidemic situation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to pass the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-249	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on certain regulatory issues relating to the emergency and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/17671. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-12-13-250	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed T/17671 on emergency regulatory issues on 9 December 2021. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. and adopted by 25 votes to 1, with 3 abstentions. Dear House, I personally believe that in these times of trial it is essential to ensure the widest possible national cooperation and social solidarity, since it has now become clear that the joint task of all of us is to prevent, slow down the spread of the coronal virus and to support the fight against infection, to protect human health and to restart the Hungarian economy. Responsible decisions must be taken by the Parliament and the government in times of crisis. The government's primary objective is to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people, to reduce economic damage and to preserve jobs. That is why the bill before us was drafted. The new variants of the coronal virus spread with unprecedented speed and consequences across Europe. In the fourth wave, due to its unpredictability, it is essential to ensure effective and enhanced protection. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Government will turn again to Parliament, because it has declared an extraordinary legal order and is asking for its extension from the Hungarian Parliament today. The extension shall take effect on 1 June 2022. However, it should be noted that, if the epidemic situation allows it, the government will initiate the lifting of the emergency situation before the law expires. It should be pointed out that the retention of the general election of Members of Parliament, its appointment by April or May, is the result of the Fundamental Law, i.e. it is not affected by the existence of a special legal order. National referendums will also be possible in the event of an emergency, as they will be framed by 438/2021 on the possibility of organising a national referendum. the government decree and Act I of 2021 on the control of the Crown Virus pandemic as amended under this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the legal certainty and the legal requirements of the predictable regulatory environment, the aim of the bill before us is also to regulate legal relations and expectations in times of emergency in such a way as to ensure a clear and predictable regulatory transition, subject to the requirement of protection of trust, and to ensure that the regulatory environment remains unchanged by law. In order to ensure legal certainty, it is therefore necessary to lay down these rules, since the termination of an emergency and the expiry of emergency government regulations cannot take place without the establishment of appropriate transitional provisions. [[18.50]] Please allow me to highlight, without the need for completeness, the three main points of the draft on the House's table. First, the proposal provides for Btk. regulation other than its duration, which is justified by the existence of stricter rules on the abuse of a protection certificate during an emergency. Secondly, the bill also states that an offence committed during an emergency must be assessed on the basis of the legislation in force at the time of the offence, i.e. in accordance with the emergency government decree in force at that time. Finally, thirdly, given that a significant number of expired documents are still in use, the validity of which has been extended by the transitional rule, so that they are legally used by citizens, the bill sets the validity of expired documents with a uniform date of 30 June 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I call for the support of the proposal submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-251	Thank you very much, Congressman László Vécsey. I would like to ask Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State, who is sitting here on behalf of the authors, whether now or later... [[For signal:]] He says he'll want to comment later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translate them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2021-12-13-252	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, Poštovani gospodine državni tajniče! At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 7 December 2021, T/17671 of 2021 on certain regulatory issues related to emergency situations. It held a detailed debate on the whole of draft law No 1. As a related committee, the Rules of Procedure of the Decision are 44 and 45. In the light of the provisions of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, it stated that it does not take a position on the proposed amendments, in line with previous practice, nor does the Commission present a proposal for a detailed debate. The Commission's opinion has been submitted. During the discussion of the item on the agenda, no minority opinion was formulated, so our committee asked to present its position. Dear Secretary of State, The period since the submission of the bill can be said to be one of the most difficult periods of protection in Hungary since the outbreak of the coronal virus. Case numbers, as well as additional waves of infection announced by some professionals, require further extension of the emergency with effect from 1 January 2022. We support the maintenance of the special legal order in order to protect the health of citizens, maintain the functioning of the Hungarian economy and mitigate the damage. In the general debate, we agreed with the opinion of the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary that it would be necessary to set up detention centres in small settlements and in the most disadvantaged areas and to deploy rennet buses in order to achieve equal opportunities. We were pleased to hear that, in order to ensure the mass availability of the vaccine, the government has taken action in the meantime, so that the protective vaccine is expected to be available in all settlements. Our ethnic communities continue to find government regulations 598 and 599 problematic, which are 2021. It appeared on the 28th of the month X. In connection with implementation, there is a problem in the state and municipal institutions carrying out the task of nationality, and in the interpretation thereof, in the case of public education and cultural organisations maintained by the national authorities, this concerns the imposition of compulsory vaccination by employers, and we have been promised, in the national closing, to deal with possible anomalies. It is recommended that discussions continue on this. Dear Parliament, The draft law currently under discussion It is worth highlighting from the chapter on emergency transitional rules that students who have passed a successful final examination during the period are exempted from the required language examination. As a result of the regulation, young people in our communities can work with their diplomas at ethnic institutions struggling with a lack of expertise. We also agree with the provisions of the extension of the duration of the supported activity. Thus, our municipalities, our institutions and our civil society organisations can be helped by this provision that the implementation deadline for programmes and projects implemented with budgetary support is extended in a regulated manner. Our minority self-governments are also affected by the continued maintenance of the provisions of the transitional rules relating to the electoral procedure. The moratorium on interim elections has so far not compromised the self-administration of our communities on the basis of previous feedback. Of course, we agree with the draft law that, during the further extension of the emergency, parliamentary elections may take place without delay, as much of the national minority self-governments have already decided to set up the list. During the period of entry into force of this Act, we should continue to examine the functioning of the bodies and, in view of the evolution of the emergency situation during the period of entry into force, we may need to re-regulate the number of representative board meetings to be held, as was the case at the initiative of our committee in 2021. Among the provisions amending certain laws in the proposal, we mention the sections on teleworking. It is important that, during the most dangerous period of the epidemic, the possibility of teleworking in the office of national minority authorities, institutions and farming organisations is ensured to protect the health of employees, which can help to ensure the smooth performance of national minority public tasks and tax rules guarantee the reimbursement of related operating costs through tax exemptions. We support the maintenance of certain cultural funding rules during an emergency. It is also important for our ethnic organisations to use the amount of the residual amount of the National Cultural Fund to mitigate the negative consequences for the cultural sector. We continue to recommend involving representatives of nationalities in the operation of temporary professional colleges. Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary agrees with the extension of the emergency situation based on legal rules until 1 June 2022 in view of the unforeseen development of the pandemic situation. Of course, we know that the work of health workers and social workers as well as those with a public service mission [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We still need it, so we owe them thanks and thanks, and we'll call everyone to help with the vaccination. On behalf of our Committee, I wish everyone a hopeful advent and a happy, healthy holiday. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! Thank you for understanding. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties and spokespersons.]]
u2021-12-13-253	Thank you very much, Mr József Szolga. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés.
u2021-12-13-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I will be brief. I also thank the speaker for his contribution. I would like to reassure you that there will be no question that there will be a parliamentary election, there will be an election of national representatives, and then there will be an election of advocates, regardless of whether the present law actually prolongs the emergency until 1 June 2022. But you don't have to be afraid of the left, there's gonna be a choice, so you don't have to run to Brussels for them and CNN and everything, it's in the law. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) If they vote for it, they'll agree to it, if they don't, and if they go to lie, I can't do anything about it, but it'll be in the law. Just as this will certainly not be very happy with the left-wing opposition, it will also include next year's tax refund for families, which will affect two million people. I wonder if you'll support him on the left. [[19.00]] Well, there's a big uncertainty about fuel prices, unfortunately. Therefore, we have also included the maximum price for this authority, the price per litre of 480 HUF in this law. What I know is that again, the new savior of the left, Márki-Zay, says that you don't have to do this and it's unnecessary. We believe that, yes, I will wonder how the left-wing opposition in tomorrow's vote stands for this, helping to curb inflation, helping people to live their lives. Everything else, by the way, I think that an important amendment is still included. For example, the Law also provides for an extension of the scope of expired construction permits, which expired or expire during the period between 24 November 2021 and the end of the emergency, for a further period of one year. Thank you very much for the support of the minority committee. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-255	Good evening. We will continue our work by announcing that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the Commission's reports on the transitional provisions relating to the entry into force of Act C of 2021 on the Real Estate Register and on the Commission's proposals for amendments to certain laws relating to real estate registers, spatial planning, settlement planning and cultural matters and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17443. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur for the committee. He can speak now. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-256	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the transitional provisions relating to the entry into force of Act C of 2021 on Real Estate Records and the amendment of certain laws relating to real estate registers, spatial planning, settlement planning and cultural matters, T/17443. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 22 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table can be divided into several larger units. One of these is the amendment of legislation required by Act C of 2021 adopted by Parliament. The Act on Real Estate Registration also includes the electronicisation of real estate registers and the creation of the necessary legal environment. The amendment of a number of sectoral legislations concerned will also be justified by the fact that the new Real Estate Registration Act uses different concepts. For example, after the entry into force of the new provisions, the distinction between the registration of the law, the recording of the fact and the transfer of data will cease, the single concept will be the registration, whether we are talking about law or fact or data. Dear House, The amendment of the Law on the formation and protection of the built environment facilitates the efficient preparation and effective application of new settlement plans. The protection of the settlement image means the preservation or development of the characteristic, valuable and traditional architectural image and structure of the settlement or part of the settlement, taking into account the architectural landscape value and heritage protection. If the ethnic minority community in Hungary has lived for centuries in a given settlement, and there is also a nationality government, it is essential that in the list of elements of the protection of settlements, the built environment of the ethnic communities based on specific traditions, the specific nationality building image specific to that settlement. In the settlement inhabited by nationality, the integral part of the settlement image is the ethnic architectural peculiarity. In order to preserve the architectural traditions of nationalities, it is important for the local government to include the national minority self-government in the list of partnership consultations in order to establish a local regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, Furthermore, public archives currently have extensive control powers in respect of the preservation of the public documents of bodies carrying out public tasks under their jurisdiction, but it is appropriate to establish an administrative procedure for the protection of public documents in order to effectively address the circumstances which seriously threaten their preservation. Therefore, the official function of the Hungarian National Archives will be extended by the establishment of an official procedure for the protection of public documents. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the bill before us concerns a number of regulatory issues, but all the amendments provide for adaptation to the changing technical and legal environment, and also includes socially important objectives such as strengthening the protection of authentic instruments and public documents and raising the protection of cultural heritage to an even higher level. In view of what has been said, the bill can be considered to be supported. I call for the support of this House in the final vote. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-257	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State Soltes, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It indicates that at the end. You have 15 minutes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality, and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani gospod Predsednik, spoštovani gospod Državni sekretar, spoštovani Poslanci, Zagovorniki! Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, My fellow speakers! The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary of the National Assembly is the 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution 44-45. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act C of 2021 on Real Estate Records, at its meeting on 16 November 2021, it carried out a detailed debate on the transitional provisions relating to the entry into force of Act C of 2021 on Real Estate Records and on the amendment of certain laws relating to real estate registers, land acquisition, settlement planning and cultural matters. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee noted that no amendments had been tabled to the bill by its representatives and that the Committee did not intend to make any further amendments, and therefore the Committee did not submit the Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate. As a rapporteur invited by the committee, I also drew the rapporteur's attention in the general discussion of the bill to the fact that it would be comforting for indigenous ethnic communities living in Hungary to consult the local government in the settlement inhabited by nationality with the local government in order to prepare the municipal plan, the manual and the municipal picture decree. The name of the minority self-government is justified in the list, as I believe that from a municipal point of view, this is the only way to preserve and maintain the value of the local ethnicity, the built environment of the ethnic communities based on specific traditions, and the specific ethnic architecture characteristic of that settlement. Since this has already been amended by the rapporteur, we are reassured that the consultation with the national authorities has been included in the bill, which is why the committee supports the adoption of the bill before us, thanking the rapporteur for his support, since the summary amendment also includes the intention to amend nationality. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[19.10]]
u2021-12-13-259	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has indicated their intention to comment, the debate is closed. Secretary Soltés may reflect. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-260	Mr. President, I will not take 15 minutes. Thank you very much for the comments and contributions of both the committee and the committee on nationality, for the support of the majority and for the clear support of the committee on nationality. I would like to draw two things out of the law. One is the regulation on the installation of solar power plants, which definitely requires national regulation. I wonder how all the good poison greens here in Parliament responded to that question. I didn't hear any mention of this on the committee or anywhere, because on one side it is very important to install solar power plants, and on the other, there is a situation that destroys landscapes and occupies a valuable area, where ecological areas are occupied, where they may be installed, and where there is a loss of good quality agricultural land. It is therefore very important for the two to be national regulations taking these aspects into account together, i.e. the installation of solar power plants on one side, but on the other side, of course, and to be consistent between spatial planning and settlement planning standards. The other, mentioned by a woman who spoke, is the conservation and participation of ethnic communities living in the settlement. I think that this can go into the line that we have done together over the last 11 years, that we are bringing nationalities into more and more things, whether through their governments or here in Parliament, and that we are finding more and more valuable solutions that not only now serve to slow down the decline, if any, of nationalities, but also to reverse the process that we conspired to and struck in each other's palms nearly ten years ago. Thank you very much for your support. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-261	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Earth Observation Information System, and in this context the amendment of certain laws, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, follow up. The government referral is T/17430. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to hear the position of the Legislative Committee. Mr Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-262	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 2 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the Earth Observation Information System and, in this context, T/17430 on the amendment of certain laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the Earth Observation Information System as a ground observation data infrastructure and service is to create a comprehensive central government capability to provide public administration, administrative systems, competition, the entire Hungarian society with relevant, detailed, accessible and up-to-date earth observation data. In accordance with the strategic objectives of the European Union and the European Space Agency, Hungary has set up a space remote sensing data management centre in Hungary, which provides for the development of a uniform capacity for government space remote sensing and, on the one hand, for the purpose of achieving and processing the Copernicus programme's earth observation data and for the transmission of processed data to national users. Our country is part of the global satellite family that Europe is developing within the Copernicus programme through its membership in the EU. The observation data of the Earth Observation Information System are of particular importance in the fields of agriculture, forestry, water, environment, defence and disaster protection, as up-to-date images available online can, for example, monitor changes in the area under cultivation and the size of forest cover or even the size of areas flooded by inland water. It provides a new database on administrative matters that allows the long-term use of space remote sensing and earth observation data. Earth observation data is of particular importance in many areas of the national economy, as the up-to-date images available online can also help to monitor the state of our planet and the built environment, as well as the natural processes and crisis situations. The aim is therefore to improve the quality of public services that make the procedures of public institutions more efficient. Development creates a new system, one of the most important elements of which is that certain data rings and basic information are available free of charge not only for public organisations but also for the general public, investors, contractors or designers. Space remote sensing data, which forms the basis of the Earth Observation Information System database, comes from Sentinel satellites. The raw data supplied by the European Space Agency on Sentinel satellites is automatically generated by IT, by means of spatial data which can be used as evidence in official procedures. It is important to note that the capacity of the system and raw data obtained can be increased by minimal improvement in order to allow other authorities to use them for their procedures. The collection and processing of space remote sensing data is a state task, and therefore the bill also sets out the tools and institutional framework necessary for the performance of public tasks. The Copernicus programme should provide accurate and reliable information in the field of environment and security, meeting the specific needs of users, which will support, in particular, policies on the internal market, transport, environment, energy, civil protection and civil security, cooperation with third countries and humanitarian aid. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, the Earth Observation Information System will be able to detect forest fires and flood depositions, as well as vegetation analysis, surface cover and earth surface movements. The project will be able to support the agricultural risk management system, operate a grass information system and control area payments that are very important to farmers. In addition to the creation of infrastructure, it supports the digital economy as it expands the scope of public digital services. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-263	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It indicates that at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Since no one has applied for a statement, the debate is closed. Mr Soltés, State Secretary, the rapporteur, has the opportunity to speak. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not going to take advantage of that now. I'll be brief. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Secretary. I would only like to respond to your thought by indicating that there were 25 votes in favour of the Legislative Committee, and two of them said no. I just don't get it at all. It is therefore the establishment of a system at a level that assists in the national forest price register, which records the removal of the forest from the cultivation branch, the entry of the forest into another land use category and the elimination of the forest stock; it helps the register of foresting, wooding and free-range forests; it supports the administrative procedures of the building authorities by providing data on the basis of which it is based. [[19.20]] Supports the agricultural risk management system. It supports the ragweed information system. It helps and provides data to order inland water protection levels. It supports the first instance fire protection procedure. Supports surveillance for the prevention of open-air fires. Ambulance supports fire preparation and intervention. So now I've only listed a few things and, of course, automatically provide spatial data that can be used as evidence in official procedures. So it's definitely part of a development in the country that anyone who doesn't support it doesn't understand those two people. However, all I have to say to them is that if you look at what countries are involved, the Czech Republic is in this region, and Romania is in it. It is perfectly natural to pay the membership fee on the basis of a separate agreement, and Hungary's budget in this whole system must be only 0.2 per cent, so it is very minimal, but the benefits that this whole law and this system have are huge. I therefore thank you all very much for your support and participation in the debate on the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-265	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on certain provisions relating to asset management and the amendment of certain laws concerning asset management and national financial services and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral is T/17442. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr László Salacz, rapporteur for the committee, is speaking now. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed T/17442 on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and amending certain laws concerning the management of assets and national financial services. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 22 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. Dear House, The basic objective of the bill before you is to facilitate the functioning of church and civil society organisations involved in the provision of public service through the free transfer of state assets. The further aim of the regulation is to support the investment activity of the publicly owned company and to adopt, on the basis of the experience of law enforcement, the necessary provisions for the analysis of uniform law and, in recent years, to transpose changes in national assets, asset managers and national financial services. The proposal includes the ownership of certain property elements carried out during the ten-year history of the Steindl Imre programme and the ongoing reconstruction of the Agricultural Ministry Building and the Palace of Justice, as well as a proposal for the management of the materials resulting from the construction and demolition. The latter should, for example, be owned free of charge by public utility and public infrastructure elements, such as claddings, traffic signs, decorative lighting facilities, space furniture. The purpose of the amendment of the National Property Act is to preserve the image of Lajos Kossuth Square and the Vérttanúk Square, and to ensure the safe operation of the Parliament building, the exclusive state ownership of the buildings concerned, as well as the classification of national assets of major importance for the national economy of monuments and monuments. Within the framework of the Steindl Imre programme, several investments have been made in the priority national memorial site and in the protection of settlement image environment in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-267	Thank you very much. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now. [[Dr. János Fónagy: In the end, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, Would anyone like to comment? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-12-13-268	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the main objectives of the bill on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and the modification of the laws relating to the transfer of certain state-owned tasks by charitable organisations is to help the population conservation, continuous increase of settlements of 5 thousand persons or less supported by the Hungarian village programme, as well as to contribute to the implementation of the long-term programme of small settlements, as well as to help those participating in the long-term programme of the surrounding settlements. The Commission's rapporteur presented the document in detail, and I therefore reject it from its repetition, in the hope of the agreement of my fellow Members. I thank the committees for their supporting professional work, which has contributed to clarifying and supplementing the text of the bill. On this basis, I would ask that the bill and its summary amendment be supported at tomorrow's vote. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2021-12-13-269	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and the amendment of the laws relating to the taking-over of certain public housing tasks by charitable organisations follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17437. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First comes the opinion of the Legislative Committee, and the rapporteur is Mr László Salacz. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the modification of the laws relating to the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and the takeover of certain home-building state tasks by charitable organisations, T/17437. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. Dear House, The aim of the bill on the table of the House is to help preserve and continuously increase the population of settlements with a population of 5 thousand people or less supported by the Hungarian village with free real estate application as a new tool. Its important objective is also to contribute to the implementation of the long-term development programme for small settlements and to assist those participating in the long-term programme of the surrounding settlements by giving free ownership of assets belonging to the public property in the affected settlements, but not directly usable for the purpose of public asset management, which have a potential to improve the quality of life at local level, have a noticeable use value or constitute capital injection. [[19.30]] In addition, the purpose of the bill is to amend the laws relating to the taking-up of certain home-building state tasks by charitable organisations. Dear House, Following the launch of the Hungarian village program in 2018, the implementation of the program started in 2019. The possibility of extending the support system of the Hungarian village to include a new element is the government's idea, which does not require it for public tasks, the placement of central government bodies, the provision of tasks, the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. It would result in the acquisition of real estate directly managed by settlements with a population of 5000 and below, free of charge, thereby contributing to the development of settlements. Ladies and gentlemen, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-13-271	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like to speak now? [[Dr. János Fónagy: In the end, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Representatives' speeches may come. Would anyone like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[No one's reporting.]] As no one has applied for a statement, the debate is closed. It's for the Secretary of State. Here.
u2021-12-13-272	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the detailed presentation by the Commission, I would like to add that these organisations can contribute even more effectively to ensuring the housing of socially disadvantaged social groups by transferring vacant properties from the property portfolio of the National Asset Management Programme to charitable organisations, which are also causing interest during the debate. Managing empty housing provides an opportunity to find personalised solutions, to ensure mobility for families and, not least, to provide individual customer management. On the basis of the bill, it is also necessary to provide customers with a fixed-term lease contract participating in the National Asset Management Programme with the option of becoming owners within the framework of the detailed arrangement, or to remain tenants, passing through the Lakásalap Nonprofit Kft. the mentor's helper's service, so that the property they rent is owned by the MRI Community Housing Fund. As the tenants' declaration of ownership or tenant status is still pending, it is still necessary to retain certain provisions concerning the Act on the Establishment and Insurance of Natural Persons participating in the National Asset Management Programme. In view of all this, some of the repealing provisions of the bill have been deleted during the parliamentary committee's work, given that due to the complex system of references within the law, it will only be possible to settle certain empty rules in a satisfactory manner and to carry out deregulation in the next spring, when all the remaining assets are used by the company. the estate in the management of his assets has been settled. In addition to the above, the Commission's proposals for amendments to the bill in Parliament's decision-making have only implemented codification and language-place clarification for linguistic and legal coherence. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanking the Committees for their supporting professional work, I would like to ask that T/17437 should be used in order to achieve the regulatory objectives set out in the bill. We would like to support the legislative proposal No 1 and its summarised amendment in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-12-13-273	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the settlement of the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Association and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. Government referral T/17427. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-274	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 2 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Association T/17427. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 21 votes in favour, 2 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Rozmaring Cooperative is today the successor of a cooperative formed by the merger of several local agricultural cooperatives, which used to operate independently in the 1970s. The legislation allowed previously merged cooperatives to be re-established in administrative areas by the end of 1996 and to separate with their land. This and the resulting imbalance created a conflict that has, to this day, unsolved and unfinished the compensation cases. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to legalise the situation of those entitled to compensation in the field of the Rozmaring Agricultural Production Cooperative, given that, in the case of the Rozmaring Production Cooperative, land funds have not been trained in the country alone. Following the change of regime, according to the provisions of compensation and share accounting laws, agricultural cooperatives had to produce land in common use and land in whatever address, landmarks, so-called land bases. In these land funds, land owned by share owners had to be separated, land determined in the cooperative for the purpose of supplying land to cooperative members and employees, land owned by the Hungarian State and land with a golden crown determined for the purpose of auction in order to ensure compensation in agricultural land. The Law on Land Fund Selection was a preliminary step that was a prerequisite for further processes. Thus, it was possible for persons in different categories of entitlements to be able to provide land with the relevant procedures. In order for land ownership relations to be settled permanently, the law linked the process with the division of land as defined by the Compensation Act. Accordingly, it was for the cooperatives to designate land for the land of non-landowners and non-landowners and for the land for which compensation is granted. As I mentioned earlier, in the case of the Rozmaring Cooperatives, the only person in the country could not train the foundations here, because the decisions concerning them were challenged in order, and in any case the court ordered a new procedure to be carried out. The bill includes a new compensatory procedure for settling the situation of victims. The procedure is not initiated automatically, but on request. First, it is necessary to verify the eligibility conditions for compensation and then establish the golden crown value of the entitlement mentioned in the compensation voucher and then the actual compensation may take place. In the case of those entitled to compensation, the entitlement in HUF, as defined in all items of title and compensation vouchers, shall be aggregated per person, after certification of the entitlements, and the golden crown entitlement corresponding to the amount of compensation shall be determined. During the conversion, the bill represented a thousand HUF compensation ticket or voucher as a golden crown value. This calculation method ensures fair compensation for victims. Dear Parliament, The bill before us should be supported by the Legislative Committee, as it helps the 300 families affected by the Solymár family to be compensated for their past grievances. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[19.40]]
u2021-12-13-275	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect now. [[For signal:]] He'll tell you later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. Representatives' speeches may come. Imre Ritter, a representative of the national minority, asked for the floor as a speaker requesting a normal word. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-276	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich wieder meinen Dank bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlag mit Titel.Zur Regelung der Situation der auf Entschädigung im Betriebsgebiet der ehemaligen landwirtschaftlichen Produktionsgenossenschaft Rosmarin wartenden Personen. mit. 17427, ausdrücke. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, as an independent German Member of Parliament, to express my thanks to T/17427. on the resolution of the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Association. This bill also proves that to date there are still unprocessed, incomprehensible, painful points in the collective awareness of the German ethnicity in Hungary. Such a point was for a long time the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the operational area of Rozmaring MGTSZ in Solymár. The incomprehensible and unacceptable situation existed in Solymár, Pilisszentiván and Nagykovácsi, I do not need to stress that after the Second World War, the inhabitants of the settlements that were practically even decisively Shvab, that to date nearly 350 families, many 30 years after the change of regime, even after the start of the compensations, did not receive the partial compensation that others had received years and decades earlier. And the people who lived here were abused because of their origins, just like the other Germans in Hungary. They were also devastated by expulsion, forced labour, and, of course, unjust deprivation of their possessions. There wasn't enough forced silence until the change of regime, and then those living there had to suffer the failure to comply. The draft compensation law before the Hungarian National Assembly, for which I have also formulated and submitted an independent intention to amend it, offers a solution, and we hope that the Germans, their relatives and those entitled to compensation will be at the same time reassured. With this, I hope, the law that will soon be adopted can come to an end of this matter, and even though only partially, but financially, can be compensated for the looted ones, the mined ones. I trust that all unprocessed problems will slowly be resolved and the painful wounds of the past will slowly heal. This is a great help to us from the Parliament's representation in 2014, which was the beginning of a new era for indigenous nationalities in Hungary, especially the German nationality. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to thank Dr. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture and his colleagues, as well as Mr. Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, who have been involved in the operation of the Rozmaring Production Association and who are entitled to compensation from Solymár, Pilisszentiván and Nagykovács, and have drawn up a bill before us. I also thank Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, the Minister for Nationalities, for submitting the bill. I myself, as the representative of the German Parliament in Hungary, propose this bill to this House, of course, for adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-277	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone like to speak, honourable Members? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-12-13-278	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can now close a case, I can say that we will report and put an end to our vote tomorrow, which has indeed been a loose end to the Compensation Act for some 30 years. It is a unique case, I can say, because according to my information, other such long, untied, countless court judgments and cases have practically not been carried out. That is why it is important to close this case once and for all. However, I would like to note that I worked as a specialist at the time in the compensation law and also in the practice, and I was very surprised every time the Rozmaring case came up in this country, how it could be tolerated in this way. According to my current conviction, and I don't want to be personal, but that was a significant part of what happened to the co-operative leaders at the time. It is clear to me that if the leaders of the Rozmaring Cooperatives at that time really accepted, the laws were respected, and the compensation laws were treated as they did in countless thousands of cooperatives, then this matter would not be here today. I dare say this because according to the compensation law at that time, even in a cooperative that I am not ashamed of, I also worked on the compensation auctions at 9:00 p.m., and everyone went home in peace at 1:00 p.m. There was only one court case in the fate of the nearly 5,000 hectares of compensation area during the auctions, and this was not a unique case, in countless honest places, the compensation law was closed and respected in an honest manner. Unfortunately, here, in this area, in this cooperative, there could be more manipulations; in fact, valuable areas, the direct environment of Budapest. I remember the gardening cultures of the Rosemary Cooperative, which was very prosperous at the time, but now we know that this is also more of the past. That is why I consider it important that, in relation to these three settlements, which has been tabled with a motion for amendment and supported by the Legislative Committee, we can hopefully vote in a clear yes for the end of this long-standing case tomorrow. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this law with their vote tomorrow as well, and I would also like to congratulate Imre Ritter on his work on this matter. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-279	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the transfer of agricultural holdings and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17428. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The opinion of the Legislative Committee is the first to be heard. Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur, please.
u2021-12-13-280	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/17428 on the transfer of agricultural holdings was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 2 December 2021. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, For Hungary and the European Union as a whole, the question of agricultural renewal has become important, creating opportunities for economic transfer. Over the past years, the middle-aged population of farmers has largely grown old, with fewer and fewer young farmers who could take over their seats, so public intervention is important, because only through continuous generation renewal can the agricultural and food economy function be ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, Managing generational issues, making agricultural change smoother is essential for the future of Hungarian agriculture. [[19.50]] Safe food production in our country may be compromised if the succession of farms is not or is not carried out properly, and it is therefore essential to help the agricultural sector regenerate. The problem of generational change is very complex, as many factors make it difficult to make a successful transition. Based on economic structure data, the age composition of individual farmers and managers of economic organisations is unfavourable, most of them belonging to the elderly population. The trend over recent years has shown a decrease in the number of people working in agriculture, both younger and older, but statistics show a much stronger decline in the number of young people. In the light of the figures, therefore, it can be concluded that problems may arise in the event of a higher number of older people retreating due to a lack of supplies. The change of generations is therefore of particular importance for the future of agriculture, which, if not properly carried out, could jeopardise the future of Hungarian agriculture, which is a real threat to the continuity and survival of farms and food production. A significant part of the successful generational shift depends on the transfer of economies as efficiently as possible. About 90 percent of the young farmers in agriculture are primarily taking over a functioning economy. As a result of the historical characteristics of domestic agriculture, the generation of founders of economies that started at the time of the regime change is largely now at the age when the transfer of the economy to young people naturally arises. Lucky for you, this happens within the family. However, both domestic and non-family generations do not have domestic procedures. The legal background of economic transfers has often made it difficult to transfer and has imposed a significant financial burden on recipients. It is therefore very important that the transfer of holdings is defined in a legislative framework that facilitates this process and supports participants. During the drafting of the bill, the results of the surveys showed that administrative tasks are the biggest difficulty in taking over the economy. This is why, as a first step, the draft aims to reduce the administrative burden associated with the transfer of economic resources to farmers' lives. Dear Parliament, The proposed legislation should be supported, as generation renewal can help to shift demographic processes in rural areas in a more favourable direction. It encourages cooperation and strengthens the market presence of producers, thus ensuring that the population is supplied with as broad as possible domestic, high quality, healthy and natural food. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-12-13-281	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It indicates that at the end. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one wished to speak, the debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-12-13-282	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we will adopt a very important law that has been waiting for many years tomorrow, and this is the law on economic transfer. In recent years, this need for a Hungarian Parliament to create a law where a transfer-acceptance agreement between family members and the owners of the family economy can be concluded with adequate legal background, guarantee and guarantees, in a way that ensures that young generations have not only their faith in agriculture, but also their investment in farming in the long term. That is why I consider it important that this law is practically in line with today's claims and, in our view, today's expectations. At the same time, I am sure that life will bring about countless situations that the law may not be able to fully satisfy today. Therefore, I might consider this a bit of a framework law, if I may put it this way, because practice will bring about the possibility of implementing this law. I am sure that in many places this can be resolved safely, and I am also sure that this means a great deal to family farms, private producers who have really reached a good age when they have difficulty in keeping up with today's technological standards physically and in other respects, having difficulty in meeting the conditions of life, the possibilities of life, and the possibilities of farming. For this reason, the ability of an older family member to pass on this activity to a young family member, owner, is included in this law, but, at the same time, there have been numerous administrative burdens and still to date that make it almost impossible or made it impossible to carry out these transfers. Therefore, reducing these administrative burdens will be the opportunity for farmers, farmers who wish to pass on this economy to their family members, to their immediate relatives, to facilitate these opportunities. We know the market, especially the banking background, when there is a loan in such a business, maybe there is a bigger loan on how to rewrite it to the next owner, what obligation. There are a lot of administrative burdens here. But the same also applies to the various payment entitlements, payment opportunities, which have just been announced and which have already been announced in recent years. We have therefore tried very carefully to formulate these administrative burdens in this law, and I believe that this is a serious help to the Hungarian economy, but a long-term security law that can guarantee the conditions of farming and provide legal conditions. I am also sure that these new younger generations of farmers will give the backbone of the Hungarian agriculture that will be able to participate in the successful agricultural development and strategy of the coming years. I wish everyone good luck with this, and tomorrow I look forward to making sure that this law is fully supported. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-12-13-283	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17436. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee comes and Mr László Salacz, rapporteur. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-284	[[Without sound:]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Zoltán Balczó: We would like to hear it!]]
u2021-12-13-285	Congressman, it's either the card or the microphone. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee held on 2 December 2021 discussed the T/17436 amendment of certain agricultural legislation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In the bill amending certain agricultural legislation before us, 17 laws have been amended, so that we can discuss the proposal in a package, and there is no need to hold separate debates and then votes on 17 minor amendments. The amendment of certain agricultural legislation is justified by the fact that it clarifies the substantive legal and procedural rules of its laws from a legal point of view, fills the shortcomings of the past, creates regulatory consistency in the context of other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, All I'm going to do is deal with major laws. The amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act lays down favourable rules on the tax liability of Ancient producers. An increasing number of self-employed farmers have indicated that they would continue their activities in the future as primary producers. In the event of the termination of the status of self-employed person, the law provides for the application of the rules of termination, which would also lead to the creation of a tax liability in cases where the farmer does not complete his activity, but only changes the form in which the activity is carried out. [[20.00]] Therefore, in view of the continuation of agricultural activity, special tax rules should help those who do not wish to cease their activities, but to continue within the limits of their farmers. By amending the National Land Fund Act, the conditions for obtaining the title of model economy are clarified for farmers and recognised groups of companies, and the rules for land application necessary for the implementation of the Tokaj career programme will be laid down. The aim of the Tokaj Life Care Programme is to stop the migration from the Tokaj wine region of the young, qualified, graduate labour force and to create favourable conditions for the establishment of young professionals who are susceptible to wine production and winery in the Tokaj wine region. The Land Traffic Act was amended for three reasons. First of all, it contains the necessary provisions for the transition to the new Real Estate Registration Act adopted this year, on the other hand, the relationship between sales contracts and the publication of lease contracts and the procedure for the approval of the public authority is re-regulated, on the third hand, it lays down provisions for the execution of the judgment given by the European Court of Justice in respect of the termination of the benefits. The amendment to the excise duty law is justified by the entry into force of the new wine law. With the creation of the Wine Act, some of the requirements previously regulated at ministerial level are established at government regulation level, so it is necessary to clarify the references in this regard. The amendment of the social contribution tax law is linked to the rules of the pre-producers, allowing them to apply the more favourable tax rules even in the event of a change during the year. The amendments to the rules on the liquidation of undivided common property in the fields are justified by the feedback of the law enforcement over the past period. In addition to a number of technical clarifications, the rules for payment by court deposit and the territorial minimum standards for forests will be specified in detail. Finally, conceptual and procedural issues will be clarified by amending the Family Farms Act. Dear Parliament, Overall, this amendment proposal is a fine-tuning package of laws containing technical corrections. With the adoption of these amendments, the Hungarian legal environment will once again be purified and modernised. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-287	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[Sándor Farkas: Not now.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. Members' speeches may follow. Honourable Members, would anyone like to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-12-13-288	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this law is a bit odd, because a salad law has been brought before Parliament once again, but I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee that these amendments are, to a large extent, technical amendments or something that I have referred to earlier, as a result of the Act on Economic Transfer. When we make our laws, we think about it, we try to sort out all kinds of aspects of the law, but life still brings cases that are either special cases, or we just don't think about them, and maybe we don't know about them. In this law, too, the amendments are almost a hundred percent of this nature, they are logical, follow-up, as well as the proposals in this agri-salad law all serve to make the original law even better, even wider, even safer to be used. The various main issues listed above, which are also provided for by this law, are all about ensuring that we can observe and enforce these laws as easily, transparently and more precisely as possible, and, not least, that farmers and farmers should have safe, transparent, understandable, understandable laws on our table, and that we should work and farm on them. It is clear to me that this law is also, without exception, in the interests of farmers, of the farming community. This law has been agreed with the Association of Hungarian Farmers, the Hungarian Agricultural Chamber and the interest representatives, so it has been put here on the table of Parliament, it will be voted in full agreement. This is the assurance that this bill can be supported tomorrow, which I am asking my fellow Members to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-289	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain training and employment laws and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17440. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. László Salacz is the rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please.
u2021-12-13-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/17440 on the amendment of the laws concerning certain trainings and employment. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to amend certain legislation concerning higher education in order to create cohesion and to implement the legislative changes that have become necessary in the course of the change of model in order to clarify the legislative environment. The proposal also aims to strengthen the system of new types of vocational training and to help to make better use of its potential. By amending the Act on the status of civil servants, the draft also provides for more flexible pay in public higher education institutions. Among the technical amendments to the Act on National Higher Education, it should be pointed out that students receive credits from doctoral programmes during Master's programmes. The regulation of part-knowledge training will also be more flexible, as some higher education modules and courses will be available to anyone. In addition, the National Higher Education Act sets out the name change at the University of Physical Education. Following the amendment, the name of the institution will be the Hungarian University of Physical Education and Sports Sciences. Dear Parliament, The proposal improves the system of vocational training based on programme requirements by making the registration of programme requirements subject to an official procedure. Changing the rules on training credit can help to foster continuous further learning. The possibility of using free-use training credit would be removed from the system of training loans. When the eligibility conditions are tightened, it would be laid down at a legal level that training credit can only be claimed for training where at least a secondary degree is required as an input condition, and that there is a continuous social security status of at least one year and proof thereof, and that the payment of an own contribution of at least 20% of the training fee is required before applying for the training loan. The draft before you also includes amendments to adult education. One of the most important of these is the tightening of the sanctions applicable to the control of training from State resources, which are needed to avoid misuse of State aid. [[20.10]] The authorisation provisions of the Act are supplemented by the establishment of detailed rules for the conclusion and termination of the cooperation agreement between the adult training organisation and the student loan organisation, and the conditions for the registration of adult training experts are adapted. Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of the bill before you, it will be possible for the renewed high-quality system of higher education, vocational training and adult education to continue to provide adequate answers to the challenges of the ever-changing economic environment. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2021-12-13-291	Thank you very much. I'll ask Secretary Bodo if he'd like to speak now. [[Sándor Bodó: Not now, thank you.]] It says no. The Committee on Culture did not present a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary Bodo, please.
u2021-12-13-292	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! The basic objective of the proposal before you is to fine-tune the system of higher education and vocational training. The amendments also serve Hungary's strategic objectives, strengthening its competitiveness, and sustainable growth of its economy. Changes to higher education will lead to positive changes for some participants in higher education, including the amendment of the draft law on the status of civil servants, which will allow for more flexible pay in higher education, and the amendment of the levy law will also involve the modeled higher education institutions in the whole personal exemption. Under the amendment of the Act on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas, the procedural deadline will be reduced to 30 days, thus simplifying and speeding up the recognition of diplomas obtained abroad. The draft law also allows students to take credit for doctoral training during the last year of their master's degree. Dear Parliament, Thanks to the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee, the learning burden of doctoral students who have completed doctoral studies during their master's degree may be reduced, so they have to complete less credit during the first two years of their doctoral course and the period up to the complex exam after two years may also be shortened, so students can obtain their academic degrees earlier. Even for foreign students, higher education in healthcare in Hungary is becoming even more attractive, with the amendment that the stage leading to the complex examination of doctoral education for those undergoing general medical education can be interpreted and performed independently. Dear House, The amendment of the National Public Education Act provides for the possibility for teachers to participate in the educational and ethical education work in non-educating employment but complying with the qualifications requirements of public schools to participate in the educational attainment system on their own choice and to acquire a title. The provision provides for the possibility for workers wishing to be employed in a post-educated and public education institution to be placed at the level they had previously acquired. According to the supplement to the Education Register Act, the professional services will provide the central family support body with the documents generated in the course of their care within a cross-sectoral, central service system. In addition to the church legal person, the public interest trust fund and the higher education institution it maintains may be designated as trustees, with which the State may conclude a contract for the management of assets, as well as the law on national assets. The amendment shows that higher education institutions operating in the maintenance of a public trust fund should exercise the status of the vocational training centre for free asset management. For some model-shifting institutions, it is necessary to clarify the provisions on asset relief and to amend the relevant detailed rules in order to provide a more effective public service. The aim of the proposal is to further strengthen the system of new types of vocational training and to help to make better use of its potential. The rules on the use of training credit in vocational training will further facilitate the use of credit for vocational training purposes and contribute to the expansion of the number of participants in vocational training. Strengthening the system for the registration of vocational training courses based on programme requirements and its regulatory procedural framework will make the system of shorter-cycle training available in vocational training and adult training more efficient and high-quality. Thus, useful training that is fully adapted to real economic needs will be made available. Measures to facilitate the correct and accurate reporting of vocational training contracts contribute to broadening dual training and increasing the number of young people with vocational training contracts. The focus of higher education, vocational training and adult education is on competitive education, the acquisition of sound and well-established competitive skills, and it is no less important to provide an appropriate learning environment for the training and further training of adult workers. I note only in parentheses that this is now a daily challenge in the Hungarian labour market. The proposal before you also includes amendments to adult education, one of which is to further tighten the sanctions that could be used to control training from state resources, which is necessary to avoid misuse of state aid. The proposal also sets out the existence and justification of a permanent social security relationship of at least one year and the payment of an own contribution of at least 20% of the training fee before applying for a training loan. I believe that, during the discussion of the draft law, everyone understood the purpose of the change. Even if there is no complete agreement between us in the ways, ideas and ways of implementation, the opposition support thought that has been expressed here can be positively assessed. Supporting the bill is also a resolution in favour of development, progress, which is a clear profit for all members of society and the economy in the long term. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to support the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-13-293	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain energy and transport laws and related legislation and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/17439. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented, Mr Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-294	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws on energy and transport and related matters, T/17439. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear House, The part of the bill concerning the amendment of energy laws has become necessary in view of the legislative, regulatory experience of the past period, the changes in the energy sector and the measures implemented. The bill is designed to transpose the necessary amendments in the field of rail, shipping, air transport and road transport in order to comply with the legislation in force, as well as to comply with our country's obligation to harmonise legislation, and contains codification and technical clarifications. The bill before us contains amendments to the bill on transport, some of which I would like to highlight. With regard to the amendment of Law I of 1988 on road transport, the amendment aims to remedy the problems encountered in practice during the development of the road network and to clarify the simplified procedure for the entry into service of new vehicles sold by vehicle distributors. [[20.20]] Hungary's transport network is constantly expanding and developing. In practice, transport investments and transport infrastructure are regularly addressed with issues requiring changes to existing legislation. The amendments aim, in particular, at improving the development, efficiency of transport infrastructure, speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investment, and are also linked to our membership of the European Union. The proper technical state of transport networks is important not only for Hungarian people and businesses, but also for the economy as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-13-295	Thank you very much. I'll ask Attila Steiner, Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have representatives' speeches. Mr Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-296	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Thus, towards the end of the term, the bill to be negotiated now gives me the opportunity to sum up my opinion on the legislative procedures of the government side. The title of the bill is to amend certain laws relating to energy and transport, as well as related laws. The title does not correspond to reality, many parts of the law are in no way related to energy or transport. For example: electronic information security for public bodies, amendment of the rules on post-quantum secrecy, extension of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities with new rights. Why doesn't it say "other laws"? It indicates that there is a connection between them. By the way, in double-sided print, we have this salad law, 36 points, 213 paragraph, 84 pages, with a lot of unconnected parts. Otherwise, why not support the implantation of the EU Clean Energy Package to promote the use of renewable energy into the Hungarian legal order? Why should we not support changes and clarification in the rules on road transport? I do not want to go into details, how has the EU legislation affected the countries of Eastern Europe, which have imposed conditions on cabotage that have reduced our competitive advantage, and here at least we want to take some parts out of it? But how am I supposed to vote yes when there's the Supervisory Authority for these Regulatory Activities? You know, this is the institution that was set up in October by the government and Parliament, the President of which the Prime Minister appointed for nine years, a former State Secretary for nine years, and a separate regulatory body that could issue regulations. This is again part of the process when Fidesz outsources the state. In fact, this supervisory authority would become a state, and obviously the party's goal is to prepare itself in case they do not remain in government, and in this area they also exercise decisions and power. And even that amendment was introduced here, I quote: the decision of the authority in administrative proceedings cannot be altered by the court in administrative proceedings. I don't think that's entirely a rule of law. And then let's get to the amendment we've just tabled on the recommendation of the pro-government members of the Legislative Committee. What is this TAB modification originally for? That, in this procedural order, when amendments are made to the committee, there may still be some loose ends, changes, in which a slight correction is possible. This material was submitted by 90 pages, without explanations, by this TAB modifier, 25 representatives. Honourable representative of the rapporteur or of the TAB, you may have looked at what it is about, but this was not submitted by these 25 Members... I'm sure most of them don't even know it at the same level as I've been looking at it. And you know what's in here? It's practically new legislation. This TAB amendment does not modify the Mining Act on 12 pages, it is practically creating a new law. People who know him here... [[He's showing me a document.]] Excuse me, I know this is a demonstration, but perhaps, Mr President, if I present the bill itself, there is no need to announce it in advance.
u2021-12-13-297	I consider it not forbidden.
u2021-12-13-298	Thank you very much. Here they are underlined in a series of amendments, under the name of a supplement, a new law is being introduced here, and that is what we should decide now, and tomorrow is supposed to end. How, then, should I do so if it contains parts that are fundamentally to be supported and so extensive, which we may not be able to accept? So what's left? Should we vote no? Then, yes, we also vote 'no' to what we agree with. Should we abstain? In Hungary, residence is not like that of the European Parliament, because they look at the proportion of yeses and genders, it is a polite sex. Thus, if I do not take part in the vote, I will be able to object to this legislative procedure. And it's not usually the salad laws. Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, said earlier and defended the amendment of agricultural laws, and I went over it. It's all about agriculture, it's collected. But how is it possible to vote on them together? And why would a 90-page material like this have to be brought in by a TAB modification? We're at the end of the cycle. This law should still be made. There was no time and way for this to be actually introduced as a new concrete bill; it was attached here, unfortunately, just as in the case of the Law on Pedophilia, it was subsequently attached with a TAB modifier to a section that should have been discussed completely regardless of what I said in parentheses. And I think the reason for this is this: this is because you have introduced the three-week working schedule. When I was a Member of the European Parliament between 98 and 2002, there was a plenary session at least every week on Monday and Tuesday, almost every week a committee meeting, which means that we spent about 8-9 days here, in this Parliament or in committee. You will spend an average of 3-4 days in Parliament and in committee from 15 working days. Why? Because you are not important to you, or you are considered to be a representative, not to participate in the substantive work and debate of the legislation, but to be able to be present and lobbyed as much as possible in your district, in the individual district, and I admit, why not a positive part of it? But in many cases, it serves to build a feudal chain, which is more important to you than to participate in substantive legislation; 25 people submit it, TAB-modifying, ours, such a substance. This, honourable Members, I think is very sad, and if you think about it, it is not just an unworthy situation for opposition representatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik, MSZP and DK.]]
u2021-12-13-299	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary Steiner will take the floor if you wish to speak. Here you go. [[20.30]]
u2021-12-13-300	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. I believe, as the Legislative Committee has confirmed by Congressman Bóna, that we have included a number of very important legislative and regulatory proposals in this bill, and that follow-up to energy market processes has justified a number of amendments that are included in this bill. I would like to highlight one thing, which is very important in parallel with the proliferation of renewable energy production, for example, so that we can also set up and operate electricity storage facilities and that detailed rules on this have not yet been met. So such and similar very important details are those that have been included in the bill. I think that we have heard a lot about independent regulators, and there have been a lot of debates about this, but you are always accountable for independence here. The independent regulatory body is the highest level of independence that can be guaranteed and, for example, in the case of the Energy Office, which has also shown by an independent regulatory body, international opinions and international analyses that it has had a positive impact on the independence of the Energy Authority to take such a form. With regard to the Mining Act, I would also like to point out that, since Mr Balczó has already highlighted this, it is a fundamentally new institution here that the bill mentions the state of the market surveillance measure as a basically new institution. This is a very important new institution, because in an emergency period as well, I think it is very important that we can address the market problems of construction raw materials and raw materials, which are of major importance for the national economy. Basically, the proposed amendment states that if the price of construction materials increases in a trend and significantly in relation to the previous year within a year, the President of the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities may introduce a regulation giving rise to market surveillance measures and may also provide for a minimum quantity to be produced for mines with significant mineral assets. So I think that this also has the right to exist, especially in the case of the current very high construction and energy prices. I would like to thank the committees for their work and ask you to support the bill during the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-13-301	Thank you very much. Decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting, Honourable Parliament. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the publication of the agreement establishing the Common Aviation Area between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/17431. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Parliament will discuss it as an EU agenda. First, the position of the Legislative Committee. Mr Zoltán Bóna is the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-302	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 2 December 2021 the T/17431 of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part on the establishment of the Common Aviation Area. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 29 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear House, This international treaty opens the way for the creation of a common aviation area between the EU and Ukraine, based on a common high level of safety and air traffic management in important areas such as aviation safety. This will facilitate market access and offer new opportunities for consumers and airlines on both sides. Ukraine is an increasingly important aviation market for the EU, as in 2019 it was the thirteenth largest non-EU market with 9,8 million passengers. It is part of the agreement that all EU airlines can operate direct flights from any point of the EU to any airport in Ukraine and vice versa for Ukrainian airlines. All restrictions on flights between Ukraine and the EU are removed and the provisions on open and fair competition guarantee a level playing field. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-303	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary? [[On Attila Steiner's mark:]] It says no. The Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. So, congressmen, respectables, would anyone like to speak up? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has come forward to speak, the debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-12-13-304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bóna has given a very detailed summary of the benefits of the legislative amendment proposal, and I think it is very important that we adopt this bill, because we can then be the first among the EU Member States to comply with the domestic procedures necessary for the provisional application of the agreement and then for its subsequent entry into force. It was my pleasure that the majority of the groups have already agreed with the content of the bill, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-13-305	Thank you very much. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. First of all, Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, will be able to give us a more meaningful answer than that: "Merry Christmas!" It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the people of South Somogy would also like a much more meaningful response to the questions with which I have bombed my fellow Members sitting here in the pro-government horseshoe and on the square. The people of South Somogy now want to hear a clear target date and amount about it, and put this, say, under the virtual Christmas tree, what will happen with the renovation of roads 6 and 68. How long do the people who live there have to travel on life-threatening and accident-threatening roads? The citizens of South Somogy deserve to finally renovate these roads that serve survival. Then they would expect an answer, and it would be good to place it from the pro-government side under the Christmas tree, say, the case of the Nagyatádi Hospital; the Nagyatádi Hospital, which was handed over in 1976, and which has since been placed under the guardianship of the Kaposvár County Hospital; otherwise, its specialty is terrible. The fact is, the people who live there still deserve the right to health. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, The fact that they distribute crumbs under the heading of rural development would be worth a lot more than the citizens of South Somogy. After all, if we look at what's going on now, we see that the rule of foreign and domestic law, the spread of unlimited estates, is what we can observe in South Somogy, and this is not for survival. There is a family that, during your two-thirds reign of 12 years, received some HUF 15 billion in benefits, only this year the HUF 560 million was also lost by the gift they gave to these friendly farmers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, If I were to look for a symbol of how the Orange Powers relate to the inhabitants of South Somogy, perhaps I would bring up the case of the city of Kadarkút who suffered the ice damage. At the end of June there was a terrible storm in the town, hundreds of heads of families actually took the roof, smashed the pot, smashed the slate. These people have been waiting for government help ever since, and they're saying it's not the government's job, it's not the state's job, they're gonna fix it? Consider, for example, the Czech Republic, where there was actually a tornado disaster in the town of Hodonín at the same time, and indeed the government there announced that they would provide some HUF 25 million in reconstruction support to families who suffered damage there, even if they did not have insurance. Well, there would be some kind of concern for the citizens of South Somogy. [[20.40]] And let's look at a different area, fellow pro-government Members. This is the issue of education, the issue of education where it is also not welcome, because an apology will be limited to a 10% wage increase under the 2021 Christmas tree of the sector, which is in fact equal to the inflation of the teacher's consumer basket, so take it well. They're so fond of pointing backwards, my fellow pro-government Members, let's have a look. And if you like to refer to Kuno Klebelsberg as much as you do, Kuno Klebelsberg, as the Minister of Education, has had less time after the grieving and almost-deep Trianon peace dictator than you have now been in the 12th year of two thirds of them, yet he was able to create a miracle, yet Kuno Klebelsberg was able to make this intellectual profession truly provide a middle class career for his educators. On the other hand, is there any progress in your 12 years? Has the age - old educator society turned a little green? I have to say no. Now 4 percent is only the proportion of teachers younger than 30 years old. Let's see where we stand with the exodus, the dropout. Have you been able to make substantial progress in this? No, the track is still unattractive. And, ladies and gentlemen, how are we doing in attracting the best to this wonderful profession, this career? Do you understand progress, let's say, in terms of the Finnish model, where the best 10 percent choose this career after high school, should we approach it somehow? I must say that no, but I would like to reiterate here, that Jobbik's position on the opposition side is clear. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the pedagogical society is also entitled to prosperity and freedom. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-12-13-307	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Kálló, the representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech after the agenda: "Our affairs." Here you go.
u2021-12-13-308	Dear House, Mr President, Thank you for the floor. This summer we voted for a law; the law was called the Child Protection Act by the governing parties. The Jobbik also thought that there were good parts of the law, so we have to vote for it despite a few flaws. We did. This law bans propaganda from the school building. He's banning propaganda. And it happened on St. Nicholas's day, last Monday, an unfortunate incident. The chairman of your Fidesz constituency thought that he would go to a school on St. Nicholas's day at school and conduct political propaganda, because this is what Dr. Krisztián Molnár did on St. Nicholas' day, Monday in Pusztaszabolcs, at Attila József Primary School. We find this unacceptable. You don't have a place in schools, and you can't do political propaganda inside the school walls, whatever it is. Not only was I outraged, but also the community of Pusztaszabolcs, so I turned to the head of the district in an official letter with three questions. Did you know that you were going to Krisztián Molnár? Did you give permission to Krisztián Molnár? Does the district even consider it acceptable to hold a political event within a school building? And I don't care how many minutes it took; I don't care what it was about; I don't care how many cameras there were. What I'm interested in is that if we've already voted in favour of such a law, let propaganda disappear within the walls of the schools. Three and a half days wasn't enough to get an answer from the school district, but that's okay. This unfortunate incident was also mentioned at the general assembly of the city of Pusztaszabolcs, where the principal of the school appeared. I got it, we got the record of this board meeting. Let me quote you, I'm gonna quote the principal of the school. The principal of the district, Szilágyiné Németh Sarolta, specifically requested that if there were any questions about this, they should look for her, the decision was hers. So he can comment on that. He contacted me on Friday that he would be here, or he would be in the neighborhood. I don't know exactly, the president of the county assembly, and one of them, some kind of press, so he didn't say it was a newspaper or television, or anyone, is gonna give someone a report on child protection. Now I'm quoting one more thing: now if my maintainer says so, so they've discussed it, so obviously he's my boss, so I didn't think of anything wrong here. This was recognized by the school's headmistress at a general meeting. So to sum up, we're voting in favour of a law that prohibits propaganda within the school walls. You're ignoring this and going to school to have a political event. The head of the school district doesn't answer me, but the school principal admits that the school district was involved in this, and the head of the school district asked the school to let Dr. Krisztián Molnár go in, and let him conduct a political event within the school walls. That's the thing. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Shame!]] You're the only ones who've ever done propaganda inside the school walls. What do you think? [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]] Hands off the kids! Get out of school, and don't affect juveniles. Thank you for listening. I'll stay in my precinct.
u2021-12-13-309	Thank you very much. Mr Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech after the agenda:. I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I have said it many times in many of my speeches, but I cannot stress enough that road renovations are the basis for everything. Unfortunately, we're very late. As long as there are no suitable roads, especially in the countryside, there is no real development or development, as until a large company can deliver and deliver its goods in the right time and quality, a large company will not be established in Hungary in the countryside, especially in areas surrounded by small settlements. It can be shown that if you look at the local compositions, where big companies are, where the infrastructure is, and where it is not. So I think that there is plenty to replace in this area, and we have something to improve. At the same time, if anyone knows me, it may also know that I am never ashamed to commend what is actually good and really started to develop, and I am now telling you that in many cases, in many places, road renovations have started and started that have been waiting for you for a long time, and these are very important and very serious gaps for the people who live there. At the same time, I must also note that for us who live there, as local representatives, that there is an election coming, and that the roads are being completed, that the days of the four-year cycle are the same for us, and we walk these roads every day, so we must not have a road for an election, but for any day of any month of any year, the same things apply, we are on these roads the same way. But again, I'm glad you're on your way. There are obviously reservations on the part of the population, which roads are still needed, and unfortunately there are a lot of them, and also what quality these roads are made of, because although they do not happen to hurt anyone, but these roads do not have to be completed by April, these roads must serve the area of Mátra, the area of Bélapátfalva, and the interests of the entire population of Hungary, the country. But one thing is very much desired here, namely, which roads are left out. That would be very difficult to list right now, and my time here, as it stands, is short. Therefore, I would like to highlight one, and I would like to present through it what other shortcomings there are. I have also spoken on several occasions on this issue that the road between Recsk and Mátraballa 23 and 24 is also the worst part of the area, according to experts. When the main road 21 was built and the stone trucks went through this road, they completely destroyed this road. [[20.50]] The population of the three settlements there was rightfully expected, and by the way, the transiting people who used it every day, that as soon as this freight traffic went down, this road would be renewed. It wasn't renovated. We expected that in 2021 it would be included in the Hungarian village programme. There was a mayor who wrote to me that the district rep was holding this case in his hands, and by the way, this trip will be renewed. We expected it in 2021, it's mid-December, we know it won't be ready this year. But perhaps it wouldn't be such a tragedy, otherwise believe me that it is, because I am also on that road every day, but it wasn't included in the 2022 Hungarian village programme. There was a company who came out and surveyed this section of the road, and repairing the most critical section of the road, which, in the opinion of experts with potion, cannot be repaired or repaired, requires a complete change of cover, costs 130 million forints. Much more money goes to places that are very questionable, there was no such thing as this year or 130 million forints next year. So I will contact the Prime Minister's Office in a letter in order to get into the Hungarian village program next year or any other program, because the people who live there do not care what program it takes, just stop accidents, stop flats, stop breaking wheels, and, as far as possible, until that road turns into a tragedy, because if you go there, you know that it's untraceable. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-12-13-311	Thank you very much. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, the representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda:. What are our plans? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-312	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fidesz or not Fidesz? Technically, that will be the question in April, and what Fidesz wants for voters, it can be enveloped, they will say that we will continue, and we can know what that means, because we have experienced it in the last 12 years. But it is much more interesting and more important than what the current opposition offers from 2022, for example, what is the concept of sport that we want to achieve when we go to government. If I may, I would like to report on this to you now, at the same time thanking all those who have been involved in the consensusary adoption and creation of this concept in the last many months. We would like to recommend to the voters a concept of sport that can be supported, loved and based on successful, effective and qualitative sport management for society. Because our priority is to remain a sports-loving nation and become an athletic nation in the future. To this end, sport is put at the service of health care, instead of medication or medication, to prescribe a rich lifestyle and therapy. After all, what we see is that Hungary is at the forefront of cardiovascular disease, which is often driven by overweight, which often has a low-mobility lifestyle. And we want us to move as much as possible, create the conditions for this, use sports facilities with greater emphasis on the population, and provide even more financial resources for recreational sports than the Fidesz government has done in recent years. A chance through sports! We will give priority to sports clubs, and I will add that people with disabilities and disadvantaged young people will receive, train and compete. We also place greater emphasis on training and regular training of sports professionals. I'll go on. We'll announce a stadium stop and a gym start at the same time. It is amazing that the infrastructure background of everyday physical education is still insufficient. It is amazing that today there are fewer gymnasiums in schools and high schools than they were in 2012 and, moreover, stadiums that are unused, which do not take into account environmental aspects that are unsustainable, cost-effective and otherwise cost taxpayers a hell of a lot of money. And speaking of money, we don't want to plow the Tao system. The Tao system needs to be reformed, as it is an open door to how opaque, how much the robbery factor is, and how much disproportion is present. For this reason, we are planning a transparent and performance-based sport funding in competition sport in the future, and we are providing a resource that, in proportion to GDP, exceeds the average EU money spent on current sport. I would also like to stress that we will prefer Hungarian talent to the weak foreigners, and we will spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money on them. Finally, but not least, we will introduce a strong single-channel state sport management. We'd like to let the profession, the representatives of the profession, back into sports management. We are making political engagement incompatible with the role of sport leader I stress: regardless of party affiliation, in sports clubs or sports organisations that otherwise have significant public funds. Ladies and gentlemen, respect me. I trust that this offer will be attractive to the electorate, and I also promise you that, as we approach the elections, we will present further elements of the opposition's sports concept to the worthy. I very much hope that you will support this, and I hope that we will finally become an athlete nation from a sports-loving nation. Thank you for listening.
u2021-12-13-313	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, applied for a speech after the agenda: on the subject of current issues. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-314	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! In its headlines only: the South-Heves region has a human resources crisis, in the South-Heves region there is a shortage of GPs that has reached a critical level today, the so-called life span gap shows that people living in the poorest income tenths die nearly seven to eight years before their better-mode counterparts, and I ask for the so-called depriviation index permission to use such sociological terms to show that there is the greatest shortage where the greatest need would be. Well, let's get these problems in order. Look, there's almost 20,000 people in the south heat area who don't have a home doctor. I'll say it again: 20,000 people. The Heves 3rd constituency has roughly 80,000 inhabitants, which means, dear fellow Members, that one in four voters does not have a master doctor. We know very well that strong basic care would relieve the burden of professional care, hospitals, but what I have seen in recent years is that the government has done nothing, but nothing, to eliminate these problems or to reduce problems, while the government has territorial supply obligations, as the Health Act clearly states on this issue. We also know that this basic care is one of the most effective means of preserving physical and mental health and contributing most to well-being, to the well-being of people. Now more than 600 general practitioners are missing in Hungary. I don't talk about the lack of dentists and the general pediatricians. As I mentioned, in about a third of the constituency, there is no general doctor. If we stabbed the compass in Heves and looked at a circle of 20 kilometers, we would see practically the absence of a general practitioner in every other settlement. László Bass is a sociologist of poverty, and I believe that he is a well-known person in this House, an ELTE instructor. He put it this way in terms of poverty, and this one fits the region of South Heves, but in the same way it fits the region of South Somogy, it fits the county of Békés, it fits the county of Nógrád, that nothing has changed in the last ten to twenty years, or if anything has changed, it has become worse than it was ten to twenty years ago. And I think that's a good point. [[21.00]] The Hungarian society is torn apart, yes, many people say that too. I agree with the statement itself, but what I see now is that society is not breaking apart by breaking up with the majority of society, but I see that those who are on top want to break away from the majority of society. And all resources are spent on their well-being, their services, their financial opportunities, or the government's spent. As I said to you, this poverty gap needs to be here. The opposition parties have recently prepared their common basic programme, and I was one of the developers of this programme. That's when I looked at the latest statistics in retirement. Dear Friends! The retirement age is not worth 40 percent of the men in the South Heves region. You know what I mean? The age of 65 is not worth a significant proportion of men. There is no proper healthcare, no proper infrastructure, no adequate salary, no social services to help people in distress. Mr President, I have a statistical series, but I do not wish to present this. But what I'm going to tell you is that even according to KSH statistics, poverty has grown most among the 65-year-old and older single people in the last year. And when I looked at what this actually consists of, it was clear that poverty was dramatically increasing among women over 65 years of age. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-13-315	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, the representative of Fidesz, Mr Csaba Nagy, presented himself with the title of the development of the city of Siklós. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-316	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The second largest city of Baranya's 4th constituency is Siklós, where more than 9500 live with Máriagyűd and the vineyards. I think it is very important that we talk a little after the agenda about the developments that have taken place in relation to Siklós district seat, and I would like to give you this evening's overview. In 2017 they were able to create a circular traffic for transport. This roundabout was supported by HUF 51 million in the budget lines by the government of Siklós, HUF 89 million was won by the city, and it was difficult to implement it during the previous management period. We managed to get the road between Siklos and Nagyharsány renewed, a 20 - year - old dream came true: at the vineyards roads they were able to scald five kilometers with mart asphalt. This was very pleased by the vineyards and the tourists who visited us. In 22-23 it is planned by the city's management, we plan together if it is possible to say that within the framework of the rural development programme we will extend these vineyards by another six kilometres for asphalting purposes, and I consider it very important that we plan to refurbish the Postaval road from downtown Siklós to Matty in 22-23 and to renovate the Széchenyi road between the Siklós bypass road and the border of the city. The plans of the county seat and the cycle path of Máriagyud have been completed, and here we will be waiting for the public procurement to be launched soon. I consider it important to develop the local government in Siklós, which was about renovating the city hall, because they can provide a standard of service to the citizens of Siklós, which is already in line with the 21st century. Company. Siklós won an application within the framework of the operational programme for spatial and urban development, which will enable him to spend 400 million HUF on precipitation water network development, so that he can develop the precipitation water network from the mountain bypass road to the channel of Lanka to the receiver. Here will be the Baross Gábor Street, Zombori Street, Harkányi and Godosai Street, and Zenthe Ferenc Square and Mary's Hall on Pécsi and Kossuth Street. If we are talking about the castle, this year the project "Green City" has been completed, here we can talk about a HUF 380 million investment, completed by the urban budget of HUF 20 million, and what I consider to be very important also in Siklós' case that the rehabilitation of Váralja's segment has started in Siklós within the framework of the operational programme for territorial and urban development. Here the city won 190 million forints for programmes, catching up and implementing the social integration programme, 500 million forints for infrastructure development, which will now be supplemented by 256 million forints, as we hope the government will soon. Let's talk a little bit about schools. We started renovating, expanding and renewing two schools. One is the Dorottya Primary School of Kanizsai, where a new part of the building was completed, a two-storey, accessible part of the building. The other is the Batthyány Kázmér Elementary School, where a dance hall, gymnasium, a very important science workshop was prepared with my specialty, and the Handball Association also promised to complete a plastic-covered course. A government decision has just been issued that nine out of 154 million forints of Siklós playgrounds, a multifunctional new orbit and civil community space will be established in Siklós. Perhaps one of the most important decisions of last week was that Siklós Hospital received a budget of HUF 293 million, where outpatient care will be developed, a mammographic, new testing machine will be purchased, and a tool suitable for bone density measurement will be acquired. These are the improvements that make it necessary that Siklós XXI. It should be able to develop in a century's sense, and I hope that in the coming period we can also prove that industrial areas will also be developed, since the design of the new industrial area, its plans, where engineers plan a hall, road and basic infrastructure development. With these, let us try to promote the development of Siklos in the near future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-13-317	Thank you very much. Member László Horváth, representative of the Fidesz, speaker after the next agenda:. It is not worth it at all, what is it worth to the left? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-318	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The candidate for Prime Minister of the Left recently said in Gyöngyös that the Mátra Power Plant is not worth maintaining at all, and that I would add to the employees of the power plant that thousands of people need to find work elsewhere. It seems that Péter Márki-Zay is no longer worth maintaining anything that is important to the country and good for the people. Although he is the captain, Ferenc Gyurcsány has declared his position, and the situation seems to me that he, the captain and the left, are not worth maintaining the reduction of the rent at all, it is not worth raising the minimum wage at all, it is not worth defending the limits against illegal immigration, it is not worth freezing the price of petrol at all, and it is not worth maintaining the Mátra Force at all now. This also means that the left-wing prime minister candidate does not care about the country's continuous and secure supply of electricity, nor does it care about the work of thousands of people who operate the power plant under pressure during an energy crisis. After all, we can ask ourselves that if the things listed above are not important to the left at all, it is not worth maintaining them, then what is worth it to them. What was it worth to them, say, about the power plant over the past few days? The fact is, the left used to hand the power plant abroad, it seems to have been worth it. And this, of course, was best understood by foreigners who were owned by them, since during their ownership they took five times the original purchase price out of the power plant, took it out and took it out of the country in the form of profits. It was worth it to the left. [[21.10]] And while the power plant was in foreign hands, neither the left nor the environmental organizations had any environmental concerns, then the power plant was neither stinky nor smoky, so it wasn't worth saying. However, when the power plant, which was well populated by foreigners, fell into Hungarian hands, it was immediately worth the trouble and demanded the immediate closure of the power plant, it became stinky and smoky. It was worth playing Lőrinc Mészáros, of course, because it is always worth it; and of course it was not worth telling you that Lőrinc Mészáros did not dismiss any of the people, did not reduce the capacity of the power plant, as would have been done by the foreign buyer who also registered for the purchase of the power plant after the Germans left. For the sake of completeness, it could have been said, but it was not worth saying that next to the power plant, a very modern grain processing plant started operating at the same time in the interest of Lőrinc Mészáros, which gave work to 300 people, still gives them more and more work, which processes the 200,000 tonnes of wheat bought from Hungarian producers with modern technology, providing them with a secure market and income. Today, after a long time, the power plant was once again in the hands of the state, because it is strategically important. The government also decided to modernise the power plant and at its last meeting to provide HUF 42 billion from domestic sources in order to maintain the continuity of energy supply and jobs. The Hungarian people, households' energy supply, the Mátra Power Plant and its employees are safe and safe. Then, of course, you can ask who it would be worth it to, but very much if the power plant were to cease, who would it be worth it if it were not worth it to the left. We don't have to think much about it, and we don't even have to listen to Gyula Gansperger, we can figure out the solution and answer on our own: interest groups who have an interest in increasing Hungary's energy exposure, limiting Hungary's autonomy and freedom of movement. Well, it'd be worth it to them, and to them, it'd be a good deal again, just like it used to be. For them, it would be worth a left-wing government, but the fact is that the majority of Hungarians would not be worth it at all, even for those voting for the left. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-12-13-319	Member László Varju, representative of the Democratic Coalition after the next speaker's agenda: What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-320	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I would also like to report to you this last parliamentary week on the important issues and news and events that are taking place in my constituency. The advent period provides an opportunity for reckoning and perhaps a little progress. Although we can see in our environment that not only since the autumn solstice, but until Christmas, the darkness is certainly growing steadily, and for many, this is the time of internal ordeal. The light is falling, and the darkness is growing. In order to compensate for this, the work of the city administration seems to be achieved in Újpesten; for example, by the fact that a number of improvements have been completed or arrived at the final stage of the work since my last report. Allow me to mention some of these. Solar candelabers are on Görgey Road. There was not even a sidewalk in this area before last year, only large, treaded paths, and now we can walk through freshly planted trees on the sidewalk, enjoying a wild-flowered bed; now we can also see the shadow of solar lights and lighting. New ping-pong tables were added to the Berda colony on Bratislava Street. Thus, after Peace Square, Szőöndös promenade, Autumn Street, Bárdos Street, the Újpestians can move in better and better conditions. Renovation of Rózsa Street has come to a transfer-acceptance phase, where the cooperation between the capital city and the district has been renewed. The work on this road has long been timely, and it is a matter of days when it will be possible to pass this section on an obstacle course of better quality. In addition to the completed works, we expect further improvements. For example, the renewal of Pácoló-Intarzia public. I have also talked about this in detail with the city leaders, Vice Mayor Trippon Norbert, and I have learned from him that in three stages road surfaces will be renovated into and out of the area, as well as 50 regular parking spaces. About 192 square meters of green surface, 413 square meters of Mediterranean plant bed, 155 square meters of wildflower green surface, 722 square meters of soil cover, as well as trees. In the central part of the space there are drinking fountains, surveillance cameras, three water toys with recessed nozzles. There will also be support and sun benches, rocking benches, pergolas with plants. The special atmosphere is provided by the sunken LED-lamp field lighting. The renewal of the space will be completed by the summer of 2022. However, at this stage of the year, I think it is very important that we do not just talk about such renewal and professional issues. I really like the advent prep, the intimacy of Christmas. One example of this is the center of Újpest, where the decorated beautiful building, the Christmas tree of everyone, the ice rink and even the hot cocoa, the Nativity Manger, the Christmas market can all be found at the same time. There is one thing that comes out of this: this year, the Advent Gift Factory operates in Újpesten again. The essence of this is that we support Christmas for needy families in Újpest with a package for children. I'm glad to see that the Újpest community has joined forces. It's amazing how hundreds of people took the time to make a shoebox full of love for our fellow citizens to celebrate. Thank you to them, thank you to the organizers who made this possible. I wish you all a blessed, peaceful holiday. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-12-13-321	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, is the following:, Whose business is the extreme bike park built at the price of gold in Debrecen? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-12-13-322	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Lajos Kósa and the mayor of Debrecen are beginning to sound like the Szabó family: every week there is a new episode we need to talk about. Remember? Last week it was said that in Debrecen, the propaganda capital of Fidesz, the governor of the pro-government mayor Orbán could only avoid the horror of borrowing floating over the city as the sword of Damokles in 2021 by simply pushing countless investments and projects planned for this year to 2022. Of course, we know that this will only buy you some time, a few months. Although, I suppose the mayor is of the opinion that anyone who buys time will gain life or power either way. And in 2022, there'll be a way. They'll redesign the never-ending real estate sales in the budget, or blame it on Soros, or Gyurcsány, or for the past eight years, it doesn't matter, it'll be the future, and it'll work out. As if it weren't important otherwise, the family of Fidesz politicians can be seen from the fact that there are two crèches to be built between such deferred investments. The mayor at the general meeting treats this case as a bagatell problem: the municipality will apply again, in case it wins, and then there will be money to build crèches. And if the municipality doesn't win, well, that's another question, he didn't know what to say. The mayor's dream, the so-called extreme sports field, has been cherished for years. The investment is also delayed in 2022, but unlike the cradle, the city is not waiting for any savior, it is not waiting for the government, it is not waiting for a proposal, it is not waiting for anything. Last year, it was planned to build and implement this sports park from HUF 213.4 million, but the investor who won a public procurement that we didn't know of thought a bold one, and with a knight's cut he is now building the investment for HUF 620 million. [[21.20]] However, there is no such money in the world, but certainly not in Debrecen at the end of 2021, but there is nothing wrong, the faithful vassal of Orbán, the mayor of the city, multiplied and multiplied, and decided to bring this problem to the city as a budgetary amendment to the general assembly. And so it was proposed that the city should take up half a billion yeahs from the budget of 2022, you can hear it well, an obligation of HUF 500 million for the immediate construction of the extreme sports park. I will say this once again at the request of the unnamed, secretly winning entrepreneur, who said that these costs tripled in one year. And the mayor believes him. There's only one problem: we don't believe Lajos Kósa or the mayor. 'Cause everything around the sports field hasn't been right from the start. I'll tell you one more time, it wasn't right. In the first place, they did not agree with the association of bikers in Debrecen, nor did they ask any of the residents of the housing estate concerned that they needed this track; if so, the content and means that they had planned or might need something else. Or would you prefer that the cradle be built sooner and not have to wait for the government, or for the applications, or would you like an elderly day employer or anything else? But no, according to the mayor, Lajos Kósa and László Pósán, the extreme sports field must be built as soon as possible, even if the city is willing to commit HUF 500 million to the budget of 2022, even at a price of three. Money doesn't matter. Nothing matters. However, the only question remains: why do the great men of Debrecen who have Fidesz become caught up in this extreme sports field? And that leads to the other question, and I think I'm not far from reality if I ask you this question: whose business is the extreme bike park, if on the one hand they don't dare to tell me who won the public procurement? Who's stuck with this project? Whose business is this project, even at a gold price, but building this extreme bike park? In 2022, after the change of government, we will also expect answers from the mayor of the city, Lajos Kósa and László Pósán. And the answers must be born. Thank you for listening. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2021-12-13-323	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night. Goodbye.
