u2021-04-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go.]] Dear Parliament, The 14th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Csaba Gyüre will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that Imre Horváth died in the 76th year of our former colleague's life. Imre Horváth was a member of the Hungarian Parliament between 2014-18. In November 2014, in the 11th Constituencies of Budapest he obtained a mandate as a candidate of the MSZP. During his term of office, he assisted the Committee on Enterprise Development. From 2006 to 2014, he was a representative of the municipality of Kápászmegyer for two cycles. Imrét Horváth Újpest's municipality considers him to be his own hearer. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. [[The people present will take their seats.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with decisions on the agenda. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will have a presence check to verify the operation of the voting machines. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Result appearing on the table: 163 present, 36 away.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision by the President of the Republic on a proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act on the publication of an Agreement amending the Intergovernmental Agreement relating to the Single Resolution System, adopted by the Parliament on 22 February 2021, and a final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/14941/1. Letter from the President of the Republic to T/14941/2. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee T/14941/4. and T/14941/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/14941/4. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment by 161 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we shall decide on the text of the law which has not been announced, as amended by the amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the unproclaimed law on the announcement of an agreement amending the intergovernmental agreement relating to the Single Resolution System with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament has adopted the amendment, which has not announced a law by 165 votes in favour, without voting against, with two abstentions. The 1995 CXVII on personal income tax follows. The Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. T/15395. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15395/6. T/15395/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 5 votes in favour, 113 against and 48 abstentions. [[11.10]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15395/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 166 votes in favour, 1 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15395/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 166 votes in favour, 1 vote against and without abstention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] It follows that the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Sweden between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the termination of the agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments will be published in T/1393. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1393/4. and a summary report by T/1393/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1393/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1393/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the single proposal with 165 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the H/15586 on the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/15586. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution by 157 votes to one, with no votes in favour and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Geneva Act on Origin Markings and Geographical Markings of the Lisbon Agreement, T/15698. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15698/5. T/15698/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The submission is T/15698/7. The bill submitted an adaptation to the authentic English language text of the international treaty and its official translation into Hungarian, which is available on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15698/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 164 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15698/8. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the adjusted single proposal with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the 1997 Annex XI on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications. T/1570. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15702/5. and a summary report by T/15702/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15702/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 147 votes to none, with 18 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15702/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 162 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows that T/15703 on the amendment of certain copyright laws for harmonisation purposes follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is 15703/6. and a summary report by T/15703/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 tabled by Zita Gurmai and László Varga. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 112 votes against and one abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15703.6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 11 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15703/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 29 votes against and one abstention. The 2011 CXCI on the care of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws follows. T/15704 amending Act T/1570 Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of requests for action, we must also decide to maintain proposals for amendments. [[11.20]] I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to Section 4 of the MSZP Group, the Group of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 4 and the Group of the Dialogue Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote. Nacsa Lárinc: Kamuvideo!]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 112 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment No 2 was tabled by MEPs Krisztina Hohn and Péter Ungár. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 110 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Congressman Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 111 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15704. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 163 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 abstention. Next up is the H/14632. on the National Social Policy Institute of Slachta Margit Slachta. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. H/14632/7. H/14632/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee H/14632/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 154 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/14632/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 155 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. An XCV of 2005 on the use of medicinal products and other laws regulating the pharmaceutical market to list dangerous psychotropic substances for drug use follows. T/1570. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1570. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 163 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. My fellow Members, please take your seats. General debates are now taking place. In view of the pandemic situation, only the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers should be present in the Chamber as far as possible. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Government and the Government of Romania will follow a line between Mátészalka Csenger and Oar Satu Mare the general debate on the presentation of an agreement on the establishment of an expressway link until closure. The government referral is T/15965. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-28-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the draft law before you is to announce the agreement concluded in Budapest on 9 April 2021 on the establishment of a third motorway link between the two countries. Dear Parliament, There are currently two motorway connections between Hungary and Romania, and the third motorway connection started several years ago, as a result of which the governments of both countries decided to take further steps towards implementation. The first four-track connection, the M43 transmission, has been available since 2015 with Mako's touch to Arad and Timisoara. Since last year, motorists have been able to use the stages of the M35 and M4 after the Debrecen-Berettyó new village, which have created a high-quality connection to Oradea. The representatives of the Hungarian and Romanian governments signed the agreement on the establishment of motorways between Mátészalka-Csenger and Óvári-Szatmárnémeti at the last meeting of the bilateral Economic Joint Committee in April this year. In addition to strengthening the intention to achieve development in a coordinated way, the agreement also sets out a border intersection. The new road link can cross the border in the Csenger area, south of Szamos. [[11.30]] Until Romania joins Schengen, international traffic will be at a border crossing point in Hungary. The construction of the new motorway could not only contribute to strengthening cultural and family ties, but also to boosting economic, commercial and tourism relations, and also contribute to creating new jobs in the long term. The agreement complies with EU standards and allows for the expansion of the motorway network between the two countries in a state-of-the-art manner. Dear Parliament, According to the Agreement, the Contracting Parties shall build a two-track expressway in the territory of their own State in accordance with their own legislation, harmonised with EU acts, with funding from the resources available to them, after carrying out a preliminary environmental impact assessment. On the Hungarian side, the development of a total of 43 km M49 motorways is being prepared at two stages. The construction procurement of the section running from the M3 motorway to Porcelain may begin in summer, the preparation of plans for the continuation to the border may be concluded in the near future, and the delivery of the export plans is expected within a year. The agreement also states that the Ministry of Transport led by the Minister for Transport in Hungary, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure in Romania, is responsible for the implementation of the agreement and that the implementation tasks are coordinated by the bilateral expert working group established by the two ministries. Dear Parliament, I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-28-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-04-28-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is of particular importance for our country to develop close, good friendships with neighbouring countries and EU Member States. The project on the establishment of an expressway connection fits perfectly with the efforts of the Government of Hungary to bring the people of the Carpathian Basin, who have lived side by side for a long time, closer together and to facilitate the easier exercise of intra-EU freedoms. This goal has also been raised by the Romanian side's shield, so that we can work together for our countries. Our area shows unique economic growth in Europe, but it is noteworthy that this success also requires a particular effort and cooperation. In the heart of our continent, infrastructural developments are crucial, as the person who can build the road between the East and the West not only spiritually but physically. Romania is an important external trade partner, especially with regard to exports, but beyond economic considerations there is also a more important interest: creating the unity of the nation. There are Hungarian majority settlements in Óvár, and a significant Hungarian minority also lives in Szatmárnémet. The road is also a bridge between Hungarians across the border and Hungarians living in Csonka-Hungary, while increasing the relationship between Hungarians and Romanians. This is a historic step forward, after all, geographical proximity has always been a given. But if you look at the map, you see that the inhabitants of Csenger and Ovaria have to live apart because of the lack of a border crossing. The decades of deficiency will not only be replaced by a two-track expressway twice, so it will also create the necessary conditions for smooth international road transport. Government policy is therefore spectacular, which also strives to develop in poorer areas and does not abandon people within our borders or beyond our borders. Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and thus the country's development is also guaranteed by bilateral cooperation with Romanians, business relations, international trade, tourism and transport. Allow me one more sentence or two of my personal experience. After all, I live on Highway 49, and more than 70 percent of my constituency is represented by settlements whose daily life is difficult at the moment by the enormous traffic crossing the Romanian border, and we have to say it as the snail in the joke is that if you want to cross a road, you have to be born on the other side. So, in addition to these economic and international relations and national emotional relations, it also boosts the daily concern of the people living here, their safe transport and the economic life of the businesses here. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to thank the Hungarian and Romanian governments for concluding this agreement as an individual Member of Parliament in that region. I call on Parliament to support this to rise to law, so that construction can start as soon as possible, since, as I said, these are also national, economic and security aspects. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-28-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-04-28-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My microphone doesn't seem to be working. If I could just ask you to turn it on. I think my microphone is... okay now? Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd pick it up somewhere where the one before me left off or referred to it. 1920 and 1944 are two dates that were written black in Hungarian history, since Hungarians were separated from Hungarians by the Trianon Peace Ditate and the subsequent different peace, then Russian occupation at the end of 1944. Indeed, this area, where the current road 49 is situated, has been cut in half, and not only has it torn apart the country, but it has torn apart families, the nation, the economy, relationships and everything, and it has been completely impenetrable for a while. Obviously, then a certain relief began and relations started, but we got to the point that today, the 21st century, In the first century, transport in this region is still a disaster. On 10 April 2017, I asked the competent minister about the problem of Route 49. What's the problem here? There's huge traffic, heavy freight traffic, huge international freight traffic, huge passenger traffic in this area. In 2006, a traffic count was made in Kocsord, where it was found that well more than ten thousand vehicles pass through the settlement on a daily basis; that is, much more than ten thousand vehicles. If we start to divide this, we will see that there is obviously more traffic during the day, smaller at night, and during the day this means that every 10 seconds a car passes through, on average, at a speed of at least 50 kilometres per hour if it can. The other big problem is that they go much faster at night, especially the trucks, which also threatens the local population. This traffic increased by 60 per cent in terms of passenger car traffic over five years, i.e. from 2006 to 2011, but increased at all levels. This means that every four to five seconds each car passes during the day on these roads. Which settlements are affected, I would like to read this: this is the terrible vehicle traffic, which is currently being divided by road 49, this is Jármi, Mátészalka, Kosord, Győrtelek, Ököritófülpös, Porcsalma, Pátyod and Szamosbecs. An important feature of the settlement structure of the region is that the main road itself passes through the settlement along the 49 route itself. How much does this affect the settlements? For example, Mátészalka, the inner area, is split by road 49 for 8 kilometers, but for example, Kocsord has more than three kilometers of inland road. Usually these roads are the main roads, the main street of the village, the schools are here, the kindergartens are here, the crèches are here, the shops are here, and there's everything people like to go to and go to. [[11.40]] What does that mean? Technically, you can't cross the streets during the day. A settlement, in the life of a village, cut in half by such a busy road, where every 3-4-5 seconds a car goes away, is tragic. Children can't go out on the street there, children can't go to school alone, kindergarten, escorts everywhere, you have to be very careful. What else does it involve? It means accidents are very common. And unfortunately, fatal accidents are very common. In 2017, I asked how many more people have to die before the bypass is built. That is why we were so pleased when we saw this bill that we finally had a concrete proposal, a concrete plan to avoid these settlements crossing the 49 main road and to complicate this traffic elsewhere. After all, it is known that on Highway 49, at least 90 percent of traffic, but rather 95 percent of traffic is transit, and the vast majority of that is international traffic. So every 3 to 4 seconds, this traffic should somehow be avoided. That is why it is very necessary to build this road. In addition to the danger of accidents, I must say that it is also important in terms of damage to the settlements, because the housing and buildings of the institutions are being damaged, the walls are cracking because of the massive traffic, the plaster is falling down. Where many trucks with a weight of ten tonnes or more often leave at high speeds, road conditions also get worse very often, need to be patched very often, and the rights of the population are substantially violated in these areas. That is why daily accidents should be avoided. So if this is built, it will certainly be forward-looking, for emergency reasons, as well as for freight transport, trade, passenger transport and passenger traffic. But there is one other important aspect that I have not mentioned yet, and that is the question of air pollution, because the busiest route is located in the interior of villages and cities, and at the moment there is the greatest air pollution. I need help with that, too. Mr State Secretary said that this will be the third fast-track link between Hungary and Romania. We're very happy for you. This is very, very important, because these motorways, these highways, are a connection between Hungary and Hungary. It is also very important that Székelyföld can be reached from the Hungarian territory as soon as possible by express route. That is why it is very important to build the M49 road to the border, and also that it will be a motorway, so we will talk about a two-track road twice. The problem of the locals will be solved by this way, but it should also be mentioned, but the Hungarian government has no great influence on this, that there is no great continuation of this on the other side. This is a serious problem, because this road will reach Satmarnémeti, which is 6-7-8 kilometers from the border, and so far there is no more. It would be a good way to get to Szeklerland and put our national brothers there on an expressway. We can see how close Szatmárnémeti will get to Budapest by building this trip, and this is a very, very welcome thing, but when will the other settlements, Zilah, Cluj, Gyalózsvár, Torda and others get in, and when will Szeklerland be in, is still the question of the future. Unfortunately, the Romanian motorway system is not built the most dynamically, we see that it has specific problems, continuous shutdowns and slow constructions. Even if we reach the current border on the highway, on the other side, we can't get to the freeway almost to the Freeway. In the case of the M4 completed until the new village of Berettyó, the same is the case, since, as here Szatmárnémetit, after Oradea, we cannot talk about further motorways. This isn't happening all the way to the Workshop. The M4 will then be able to climb to the motorway, the A3 there, and the M49 to the direction of Zilah, which is a motorway through a small mountain area, and there we can connect to the Transylvanian motorway. Unfortunately, there is only a short section there, as the motorway section between Gyalu and Torda has only been completed until Cute Squares, which accelerates our crossing towards Szeklerland for about 55 to 60 kilometers. After that, a short section was built in front of Ákosfalva, in the vicinity of Kutyfalva, a section of 8-10 kilometers that doesn't lead anywhere, but perhaps at some point it will join the motorway system that will really connect the present truncated home with the largest Hungarian bloc across the border, the Hungarian bloc of Székelyföld, and thus bring us many hours closer together, which will further strengthen relations, Hungarian-Hungarian connections, and thus serve the unity of the nation. Of course, we support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-28-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-28-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, As my fellow Members have said before me, the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the linking of the motorway between Mátészalka-Csenger-Ovári-Szatmárnémeti is indeed a very important thing. For the purpose of connecting the motorways in Hungary and Romania, their proper design and design, it is necessary to agree the trail and the border crossing point with the Romanian party and to conclude an international contract. Between Hungary and Romania, as Deputy Minister said, two motorway connections have been established so far. The conclusion of the agreement provides the legal basis between the two countries for contributing to the establishment of a third expressway connection, to the further expansion of economic relations between Hungary and Romania. The expert consultation on the development of the agreement started in 2019 between the two parties, and the Romanian party responded to this very important Hungarian initiative in 2021. The Hungarian Party and the Romanian Party proposed a supplement, including the provisions on border control, which have been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the agreement also complies with EU standards and carries a very important message, as well as the recognition of the mandatory scope of the agreement on the establishment of a motorway link is a priority, KDNP supports it. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-28-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! In front of me, Members with great knowledge and local knowledge have very wisely said the importance and substance of this proposal. I've got enough left to confirm some of these things myself. I think so, too, and that is what I was about to say in this regard, that such a journey will certainly bring us closer to those who, due to the storms of history, have come far from us. So this is indeed an opportunity to reduce the distance in both physical and geographical terms, which, we know, has actually shortened spiritually in recent years and decades. I would like to underline one more important point: that we are talking about an area in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County where labour market conditions and economic relations are traditionally not the brightest. So any infrastructure development that creates a chance and opportunity in this is an important and definitely eligible thing. This is an area where such road development can significantly improve the quality of trade and service. [[11.50]] Refurbishing all roads in this region who know, you know, but my fellow Members who have studied know the site better, they have said that, in the case of extremely poor roads, these renovations are very, very good for the area. So, I really have enough authority here as a fourth speaker to join the thoughts of the speakers before me, and for our part to announce that we will also support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-28-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I myself will join the solo before me, and I think that no one could reveal the transport problems that existed there directly in the region more authenticly than Mr Csaba Gyüre. It is clear from his point of view that this may be an important step in the repayment of a very, very serious debt, so it is very important to build such a section of the road there in terms of local transport conditions, and it is also very important that this can be achieved from the perspective of the economy and economic development in the region in general. And in general we can say that it is very, very important to speed up the construction of essential infrastructure in regions that are underdeveloped and economically difficult, even infrastructurally lagging regions, and an important element of this is that the extension of motorway sections and motorway sections to the border can take place. This affects many, relatively many regions in Hungary, and in this respect there is a very serious lack of government. This could be supported by another example. In Baranya County, the M6 motorway has not reached the Croatian border for a very long time, and there were concrete government promises here, and until 2018, the extension of the M6 motorway should have been completed. The situation on the M60 motorway is even more serious, where the government promised to start construction in two directions until 2018, from Barcs and Pécs. Well, the situation is much worse in this case, because it has now fallen out of the government's short-term plans, so in the medium term this seems to be some kind of a slightly foggy plan, even though the M60 motorway would be extremely important, an important element of a very, very difficult area, which would be an element of infrastructure to connect to the motorway network in this way. So I could give you a long list of examples now, obviously I won't be doing what area of the country would need this enormously. But if we are talking about the development of the motorway network here, we cannot go further than the fact that there is a huge lag in the state of the lower roads, in terms of the development of the lower roads, and here we can say that, indeed, this has often been mentioned in recent years, the legacy of 2010 has been extremely difficult, but at the same time we can say that the government has not started to work off this heritage in terms of the quality, condition and development of the lower road network, but has increased the tasks, has increased the problems, because if we look at the proportion of bad and inadequate road sections, especially in difficult rural areas, we can see that the government does not provide the resources needed to carry out maintenance and replacement at the right pace. And what is, by the way, a very alarming figure is that more and more sections of the road are going to be in such a state that their renovation will not be enough, but that these roads will need to be rebuilt in practice. So what we see is that the government, not only pushes the problem ahead, but also increases the weight of the problems with incomplete measures and insufficient measures. So, basically, in the government rhetoric, a recurring element is that it considers it important to develop the countryside, but on the other hand, if we look at the specific figures, and if we look at the real problems in each region, we can see that the government has tested inadequately over the past many eleven years, especially with regard to the development and infrastructure development of the most difficult areas. And obviously there is no way, in such a debate, that we will be able to list other problems, whether in terms of, say, the situation of Community transport, that will be possible at a later point on the agenda. There's one more thing I'd like to get back to. Csaba Gyüre also mentioned the importance of this concrete development in national policy, which we fully agree with. Obviously, everything needs to be done, on our part, to overcome infrastructure barriers, but I also believe that it should also be the task of the government to help, where appropriate, by means of continuous consultations with the government of Romania, the government of Croatia, in other cases, to build a continuation of road development beyond the border, so that such a road can actually fulfil not only a bypass function, but can indeed provide the missing infrastructure conditions for cross-border economic cooperation at regional level. This is the same, and I could again give a long list of examples of how many and how many border areas in the country there are problems, and we can tell you that, in general, the cross-border side of a peripheral border area with poor economic conditions meets with similar areas, so obviously there are disadvantaged, economically disadvantaged areas on both sides of the border, also peripheral areas in terms of infrastructure, which, for the development of which, it would be essential if these links could be strengthened in this way. So this is also the task of the government, and we say that the government has not done well in this either, so that these relations can be strengthened. Overall, however, in particular, we say that this is a step towards overcoming a very serious, very long-standing deficiency, and, of course, the LMP faction will be pleased to support this specific proposal. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have the first independent Member to come forward. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-13	[[On his T-shirt, the inscription is, "Can I be in this circus, but I can't go into the real one?"]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/1595. Proposal for a Law on the establishment of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the establishment of a motorway link between Csenger Mátészalka and Szatmárnémeti Óvári. This proposal says that the Contracting Parties will establish a link between the two countries with the direct link between the following motorways: on the Hungarian side Mátészalka Csenger border and on the Romanian side Szatmárnémeti Óvár border. Following the M49 road to Romania, the M3 motorway creates a new transport link between Chenger and Szatmárnemeti. The planned highway, the construction of which was made possible by the extension of the M3 motorway to Városnámény in 2013 to allow the M49 highway to be built to the Romanian border. The construction is planned to take place at two stages: first from motorway M3 to Ököritófülpös, then at the second stage when the border intersection is fixed to Csenger. In 2007 it was planned to establish the M49 motorway from the section of the M3 to the Vásárosnámény in the southeast direction, this road starts from the Guardian and is built in two parts to the Hungarian-Romanian border crossing of the Csengersima-Pete. Then in 2010, the first 28 km section of the M49 motorway was built, the preparatory feasibility impact assessment and the environmental impact assessment were carried out, and it would have been designed at the first stage with two two lanes and twice a single band. Then, after much discussion and discussion, in May 2018, the path plan for the first phase was finalized. So what can we say again? The first plans were already completed in 2007 and in 2021 we are only talking about ratifying the international agreement between the two countries, and we really do not know when the road will be built. But if the process of planning has lasted for fourteen years, we hope that the implementation will not take so long. We know that there is no doubt for us that in such agreements Romania does not stand in the way of taking the lead and generally does not accept Hungarian proposals without any objections. But I think that, if such an agreement has already been reached, I would like to highlight the positives and virtues in my speech now, and our future hope that, with this joint road construction, Europe is even more connected to Szeklerland not only in a legal, not only integration, but also in a physical sense. So we have come to the fact that the two states concerned are cooperating in the construction of the Hungarian section and its related section in Romania, and we can also achieve that they can reach both private and business vehicles on the motorway from the North Sea, London, Paris, Rome, Berlin, Zurich, Bratislava to the Old Town in Romania. This is a great opportunity, and it makes the relations of our countrymen, who are caught across the border, and their economic and political pressure to break away abroad with the entire Hungarian country. Thus, not only in legal terms, but also in physical terms, the whole of Europe will be opened to our fellow Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[12.00]]
u2021-04-28-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to take the opportunity to speak further. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-04-28-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Firstly, allow me to thank you for the positive and supportive sentences in the debate. It is a joy that we can agree on important issues such as the development of transport infrastructure with neighbouring countries, which is indeed a major contribution not only to relations with neighbouring countries, but also to the development of Hungarian-Hungarian relations for sad historical reasons. Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond only to a few small things after the words of thanks, since it is important that there are no sentences hanging in the air. On the one hand, I can reassure Mr Gyüre that, according to all planning and all calculations, the risk of accidents will actually decrease significantly thanks to this development, and the inhabitants of the settlements concerned can breathe symbolically and literally when this development is completed. Indeed, what Mr Gyüre referred to in part, partly in other comments, was not a simple negotiation process with the Romanian partner; negotiations started more than ten years ago, which then intensified over the past few years. I am also pleased to inform the Honourable Parliament that today there is a high level of consultation with the Romanian partner, at the level of foreign ministers, and, in part, at this high level of leadership and, in part, at expert level, there is ongoing consultation on infrastructure projects, among other things. I cannot go with one comment package: Mr Crusader has made some comments which, although not closely related to the bill, but still, I think it is important that we also respond to this. On the one hand, for some reason, the question of the country's completion of the M6 was raised far away, perhaps at the furthest point. Congressman! I must inform you that I have become accustomed to the fact that the Member does not listen to me, and I can live with that, of course, that I have had the pleasure of holding a press conference on the completion of this motorway with Mr Harghitai, who not only talks about his lack, but has worked very hard to achieve this development. Therefore, I believe that you can thank Congressman Harghitai for allowing us to complete this development. I can personally deny the sentence that a hoof cut has not been made, and if the congressman is in Baranya [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: I live there!]] And maybe you're looking at Baranya with your eyes open, so you can see that the sentence that you said didn't happen wasn't true, at least I'm seeing some very serious earthwork to finish the section between Bóly and Ivándárda. So my request, honourable Member, is that you do not fool your own voters in this area, and that you should be informed for the first time before making such statements in Parliament, because it is clear that if you do not believe me, go away, see, it is apparent that there are serious works going on there, and in the near future we will certainly be glad that these improvements will be completed. Honourable Congressman, He gave Hungary's national government a critical edge and charged us that we did not devote sufficient resources to improving roads and renovating roads. Allow me, honourable Member, to draw your attention to the fact that the government has never spent as much resources on these purposes as the national civilian government, there was no government in Hungary that could spend so much money for this purpose; partly because this is a priority area for us, because we are indeed with the countryside against the left and your party, we are working to make the Hungarian countryside strong and to live a high quality life in the Hungarian countryside, which is important for the development of infrastructure. This is less important for you in the city, but we are with the rural people, and we think it is important that you get all the support and assistance you need to have the right infrastructure. That is why we have invested an unprecedented amount of money in the development and renovation of roads. As part of the road programme alone, I am sorry for 320 billion forints, 3200 billion forints, I read wrong at first, 3200 billion forints will be spent on road development between 2016 and 2024 and will be complemented by further road improvements worth 512 billion forints by 2026 forints. Within the framework of the complex road renovation program, we spend 122 billion forints to renew 900 kilometres of main and side roads and motorway sections, which will be completed in 2021, and we launched this program in 2018. If you were to go to the Hungarian countryside, you would also see the results of the Hungarian village, which supports a number of infrastructure investments, including the renovation of roads. In 2019 renovation works were launched with a budget of HUF 50 billion and a budget of HUF 72 billion in 2020. Congressman, he cannot say anything about a government in Hungary that would have done renovations of the same size and would have financed improvements of the same size. In 2021, and this year, these developments will continue before you ask us to do so. Only with a HUF 90 billion cost, 556 kilometers of road renovations for small settlements are planned, and another large surface cover repair will be launched for HUF 10 billion. This means, honourable Member, that a total of 567 road renovation projects, worth nearly HUF 276.3 billion, could be implemented at 1518 kilometres this year. So my request, honourable Member, is that you allow yourself a little restraint in the area of criticism, and if you acknowledge the government's performance in this area, I think that would allow us all a more relaxed job and a more realistic dialogue. I hope that I have managed to answer all your questions and questions, Mr President, as you would like me to do, in substance and professionally. I hope that you will then be able to support this bill and the government's road-building and renovation programmes. And I, Mr President, have nothing left to do but to thank you once again for what has been said in this debate and to ask this House to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-28-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the publication of the Agreement on international carriage and carriage of goods by road until closure. [[12.10]] The government referral is T/15968. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-28-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Please allow me to present to you the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the publication of an agreement on international road passenger and freight transport. The aim of the draft is to strengthen transport and transport cooperation between Hungary and the Kyrgyz Republic with a view to enhancing bilateral trade and economic relations. The establishment of the agreement contributes to the strengthening of Hungary's eastern economic relations. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian-Cyrgyz agreement on road passenger transport and freight settles the legal framework for road transport between the two countries in accordance with national regulations and Community law. The agreed agreement regulates passenger and freight transport activities carried out through bilateral or transit and by road to or from a third country. It shall record, inter alia, cases of the exemption from taxes and licences for the carriage of goods, provide for the obligations of the carrier and the measures to be taken in the event of an infringement, specify the competent bodies responsible for implementing the Agreement and provide for the establishment of the associated Joint Committee. At the same time as the agreement entered into force, the Government of the People's Republic of Hungary was, unfortunately, and the Convention between the Government of the Soviet Socialist Republics on international motor vehicle transport signed in Budapest on 19 March 1966 is hereby repealed with regard to the relationship between Hungary and the Kyrgyz Republic. Dear Parliament, It is in the interest of both parties to regulate road connections. The signed agreement will help to create a new opportunity for international road transport to contribute to economic cooperation between the two countries and further develop trade and people-to-people relations. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-28-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We've been fighting the corona virus worldwide for over a year. About this time last year, half the world stood in line at the gates of the Eastern countries for masks, protective clothing, ventilators. Today, the countries of Europe are beginning to see that the fight against the epidemic will be lost if vaccines from the East are not included in the vaccination programme. Today, too, these vaccinations have started to line up. Hungary does not have to be there in this line, as we are well beyond waiting. Every week hundreds of thousands of Chinese and Russian substances arrive in Hungary to save the lives of Hungarian people. Ten years ago, the Government of Hungary voted in favour of the Eastern opening policy with a major decision. In recent years, this foreign policy stance has been attacked by many people, especially from the opposition benches. However, it is now undisputed that the successful and ongoing purchase of Eastern vaccines is due to this consistent relationship. The strategic partnership between Hungary and Kyrgyzstan is an important pillar of Eastern relations. In recent months, an agreement on the avoidance of Hungarian-Cirgiz double taxation and the promotion of Hungarian-Cirgiz investment was adopted, followed by the international treaty before us. External trade and economic relations between our countries are favourable. Economic cooperation based on mutual benefits is an important pillar of this. The adoption of the bill will make it easier to transport passengers and goods by coach and by motor vehicles between Hungary and Kyrgyzstan, moving across the territory of the States and to third countries or third countries. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary and Kyrgyzstan will celebrate the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations in 2022. Three decades after the system changes in the two countries, both states are part of an important alliance. Kyrgyzstan is the Eurasian Economic Union, while Hungary is a member of the European Union, so the strategic partnership of the two countries can be a good basis for the development of Eurasian cooperation. It is an important development that we have been able to increase trade flows between our countries by two and a half times this year. It is worth mentioning the presence of the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry in Kyrgyzstan. Richter's been with our east partner for 24 years. At the visit of the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade in Kyrgyzstan at the beginning of April, the Hungarian-Cyrgyz development fund was signed, starting with a capital of HUF 5 billion. It aims to enable Hungarian companies to participate in the modernisation process of Kyrgyzstan; cooperation in the field of water solutions, agricultural investments and health promotions, thus providing Hungarian companies with significant foreign market and external economic opportunities. This agreement could be a decisive step to restore the Hungarian economy to growth. A Hungarian embassy has been operating in Biskek since February last year. It is also important to mention that negotiations are under way to establish direct air connections. The necessary legal arrangements and negotiations are already under way. I would also stress here that there has been an agreement recently with two Kyrgyz state universities, where the education of the Hungarian language will take place, and we are also in the final line of the establishment of a Hungarian cultural centre in biskeki. There were multiple over-subscriptions from Kyrgyzstan students to the higher education places announced to them in Hungary. It can therefore be seen that there is an extremely lively economic and cultural cooperation between Hungary and Kyrgyzstan, which is expected to grow in the future. The international bill for the carriage of passengers and goods before us also serves this mutual endeavour. Therefore, the Fidesz parliamentary group supports its adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dawn Juhász applauds.]]
u2021-04-28-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is perfectly natural that the Jobbik faction will support this proposal. However, with what my fellow Member has just said here, I would like to argue a bit. I don't know where you got the statistics on wonderfully upward economic relations. I wasn't lazy. I looked at this last night specifically because of this bill. Official data show that in 2018, foreign trade between Hungary and Kyrgyzstan amounted to HUF 46 million. It was, in 19 it was reduced to 27 million HUF, and in the year 20 it was reduced to 17 million HUF. Okay, well, I'm sure the coronal virus epidemic may have been involved in this, but you have to see that these amounts weren't even very high in the period before the outbreak. Where appropriate, let's say that the total value of the foreign trade trade between the two countries is more than, say, the cost of the car of a government potentate on an annual basis. In particular, they should be highlighted in the light of the fact that the state-owned Eximbank put 50 million dollars into the Hungarian-Cirgiz development fund in 2020, which is also 15 billion forints among brothers. So we very much hope that this will also benefit Hungary. Obviously we are trying to support the relationship between the two countries, it is important to open the East, but it is not in such a way as to say that Hungary will become a quasi-colonial of China if we are talking about the opening of the East now, and we are drawing a little more relation to the Kyrgyz relations. [[12.20]] It is also necessary to see that relations between Fidesz and the Chinese Communist Party are increasingly closely interwoven, which may be a cause for serious concern. So when it comes to the recovery of economic relations, we can fully support it, but not in such a way that Hungary will finally pay for it. If we compare all the numbers and take them as a basis, then what we need to see is that we do have serious shortcomings in this area, and the opening of the East as a miracle from so many times government benches does not work, my fellow Members. I wish I did, by the way. However, it is also clear that this agreement will not be the reason to hope for the recovery of economic relations between the two countries, especially in terms of road freight transport or passenger transport, since there is a distance of 4300 km even in the airlines between the wonderful Kyrgyzstan capital, the Biskek with a million inhabitants and the also beautiful Budapest, which basically tells us that there is no need to expect a particularly large volume of goods traffic here on the road, or bus transport will not be overcrowded between the two countries. Nevertheless, I can say once again, Mr Secretary of State, that it is natural that we will support this proposal, and it is also natural that Jobbik wants Hungarian-Cyrgyz relations to flourish, much more than you have outlined. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2021-04-28-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, High-level negotiations between the parties have been on the agenda for some time and the conclusion of a new bilateral agreement is of paramount importance. On the one hand, because the original is more than 50 years old we are talking about the current convention in force, and on the other hand Kyrgyzstan has been independent since 1990 as a successor country to the Soviet Union, so it is advisable to conclude a separate bilateral agreement. As Deputy Minister stressed, the legal framework for transport between the two countries is laid down in the agreement. It shall address the conditions and framework for the carriage of passengers and freight, the cases of the exemption from tax and authorisation of freight transporters and the issue of the transport of dangerous goods, and shall also address the Joint Committee. Conventional regulation of road connections is in the interest of both parties, and the establishment of the agreement contributes to strengthening Hungary's economic relations in the eastern direction and helps to strengthen bilateral trade and economic relations, and is therefore supported by KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-28-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, this is not the item on the agenda where we are having the big debate, but thanks to my fellow Member, Mr Kovács, many opportunities have been opened for me to analyse the situation a little bit myself. What I really wanted to say in the beginning is that it's a fast-paced bill, so off with the hat, sometimes they really work pretty fast. Minister for Foreign Affairs Szijjártó has just come home after the promise of the $5 billion package, and I understand that he has signed this intention and is now here in Parliament. It is extremely right and good that the government and legislation work so quickly. I myself have wondered what my better fellow Member said about the importance of this bill because of 20-30 million goods traffic and distance, how many people will take advantage of this opportunity, but in the end we do not always make a law to be used by people in large numbers, but also sometimes because something has to be regulated. We should also consider, of course, that if we want to look into the history of this region a little bit, that the past few years have been rather confusing. There has not been a very peaceful takeover for 30 years before 2021. Let us now consider this a peaceful takeover of power, and let us trust that the present parliamentary democracy, which has evolved, will be more stable, but I really believe that Kyrgyzstan is not seen today as clearly the most stable place. My fellow Member said that this is an important element of the Eastern opening and he mentioned China. Let me tell you, as I'm doing a little more foreign policy than you are, I'm not saying this out of pride, Kyrgyzstan is a place I happen to know by chance, where Russian and American secret services are, by the way, watching things side by side, such as missile production, such as marine war-type industrial affairs, which is funny because Kyrgyzstan is thousands of miles from the sea. So funnyly, this is the country where the Russians stayed with some activity, and the Americans came in. There was a time in U.S. foreign policy when Kyrgyzstan was a strategic point. So in this case Kyrgyzstan has always been the beneficiary of this Russian-American cooperation in some way. What you are saying is that one of the products of recent years is that they, on the other hand, want to be close to China, which is quite strong in some way, so they would like this kind of partnership to be strengthened with China. By the way, neither the Russian nor the American side looks too good at this. So it is an exciting question of where the world will develop in this regard. But I can honestly say to you that this is not the kind of treaty that will give the Eastern opening the final breeze that will make it truly irreversible. Let me tell you a very important item that we say in the debates on this matter. There is nothing wrong with a country that has such economic potential trying to be open to the world. There is nothing wrong with that, and I specifically advocate opening up to the East for myself, only to understand that when we make our own sentences, there is the fear in this, the concern that it is not instead of something, so it is not instead of western closure, Eastern opening, but in the meantime our openness to the West does not change. So the reason why everyone has worked in Hungary in the last thirty or so years since the change of regime is that the essence of our history for thousands of years is that we, although we are a Central and Eastern European people, have always declared ourselves Western European in a cultural and political sense, this thread should not be weakened in this matter. Therefore, there must in no way be a situation where, with this Eastern opening, too much Chinese credit, Chinese development is now being made that leads, in some respects, to addiction, so as not to mean losing the confidence of our Western partners in the process. So understand that a country like ours has an elemental interest in trying to balance world political processes. I'd like to add a little light to the end. By the way, I think that Gedeon Richter is one of the biggest suppliers in that 20 million, because they are the largest trading partner in Hungary. By the way, I suggest that Kyrgyzstan has a very important product, and this is Qingiz Ajtmatov's books, because he is one of the world's most famous Kyrgyz writers, and I think he is the most famous Kyrgyz writer. I'm just saying, maybe few people know it, but a few years before his death, László Sólyom, the officer of the Republic of Hungary, was awarded a medal, and he was a very serious part of his 1989 involvement in the fall of the Soviet Union and the peaceful transition. So what I was going to say is that on the way there with drugs, on the way back with Qingiz Ajtmatov books, you can also fill in this legislation with content, but we will also support it for our part. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2021-04-28-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We can say that this debate takes surprising turns. I think that no one thought before him that we would discuss this issue from such a broad approach. I would like to make it clear right from the start that the specific legislation before us will be supported by the LMP fraction. At the same time, allow me a very, very short derogation. The lead speaker of Fidesz talked about something quite different, we can say that his speech as a lead speaker did not really meet with this presentation, but in such a broader approach he brought here the policy of opening up the East, which I would like to say a few words about. [[12.30]] I can absolutely confirm what my fellow Member has said to me that it is indeed a positive thing, so that if we keep it, I think that our Western orientation, which is not fundamentally the subject of debate, is that it is important to be open in this situation, and to be open to the East, and to look for the business and economic opportunities that can increase Hungary's room for manoeuvre, to broaden our economic opportunities. From this point of view, we agree with this thinking, but it's just that that's not what you're doing. So only what we have seen in recent times, for example, in terms of relations with China, can we say that you are not looking for a partnership with China, but that you are practically submitting. And they do not bear in mind the fundamental principle that when economic cooperation and economic relations are established, there must be only one thing left in mind: the representation of Hungarian national interests has betrayed them. So basically, they have surrendered to the great power interests of China and have delivered Hungary to these great powers of China and to China's aspirations. If we look at a one-year perspective, you can see that during the severe epidemic you have ignominiously encrypted the contract of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project. In just two years, you spend as much money on the Budapest-Belgrád railway development project as 175 thousand new jobs could have been created. Yesterday, with Congressman Nacsa again, I do not know, we may have debated this issue a hundred times. Then I asked Congressman Nacsa that he had seen the documents that were then encrypted in front of us, which could no longer be sued. Congressman Nacsa didn't answer that in a very coy way. I've tried several times, and I'm going to try again: Mr. Secretary, have you seen these classified documents? Do you have any idea what conditions, what contracts, what obligations and commitments are behind the Budapest-Belgrád railway development project? For example, they have Hungarian taxpayers building this project, because of course Lőrinc Mé-száros' share of 300 billion has already been secured. Hungarian taxpayers are building this project. Did China at all guarantee that it would be used in terms of utilisation? So I'm saying that this is not a partnership, this is a submission, which your government, which lied to your national, is testifying to in relation to China. And here's the other project, Fudan University. We found out what plans were being made here in the press. Secretary of State, has your boss, Minister Palkovics, signed this contract yet? Because we have also learned, of course, from the press, not from a parliamentary debate or a parliamentary proposal, that this week they intend to conclude an agreement with the Chinese Communist Party, your close ally in every respect, and the Chinese state and the University of the Chinese Communist Party, from which they will not be able to dance back, in the event of a change of government. So in a one-year perspective, you are preparing to take out about HUF 1100 billion of credit, or have already taken part in or took out this loan within the framework of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project. So what kind of information do we have on this? So, Secretary of State, have you seen the project documents and classified documents of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line? 'Cause you can't sue the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade anymore. They could give Hungarian taxpayers the opportunity to look into this. Mr Vane has any idea that for this 450-500-550 billion-dollar project, the construction of the Budapest campus of Fudan University will cost the Hungarian government what level of new submission will it cost? What level of guarantees and guarantees will you give China? For example, could the elements that form part of the public asset be part of this borrowing? Because I read your boss' statements, and he didn't actually deny anything, he didn't confirm anything. All we know is that they're practically on government level, bypassing the National Assembly, preparing to take out another gigantic loan. So what I can say is that the search for economic relations orienting towards the East in itself and the broadening and strengthening of Hungarian economic opportunities is a very positive thing, but you do not do so. You are trying to change direction, and Hungary, the Hungarian national interests, will be given up and the country will be served. And then, of course, here I am not going to talk about the gigantic loan taken from Russia, which serves the purpose of the Paks enlargement, and we have already talked about it yesterday. If we add these items together to the debts that you have forced Hungary into, then Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát discussed this in detail yesterday, this is already against the particular IMF loan that you have rightly criticised. I hope this little lookout didn't get too wide, or I didn't get too far away from the subject of the debate, but I think that in that way the Fidesz faction leader had to respond... [[Defiance.]] I'm sorry, the Fidesz lead speaker's expo, the Fidesz lead speech. And I really trust him... I don't want to give you any tips, obviously, the Fidesz faction is obviously a democratic organization, you can choose your own leader based on your merits, I don't really want to give you ideas, and I don't want to start any internal conflicts within the Fidesz faction, but I really hope that Mr. Secretary of State can at least say something to protect the government, and at least shed the veil on what you're spending 1100 billion forints of credit on. What guarantees are behind it; and what can you tell the Hungarian taxpayers why they are indebted to them in such a drastic way? Thank you very much, Mr President.
u2021-04-28-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before I close the lead speakerial round, I will note it quietly, not on a matter of substance, just for the record, that, obviously, Mr Secretary of State will answer what is on the agenda before such a cheerful and kind dialogue develops. I could literally recall Mr. Group Leader's speech yesterday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now the first independent Member to apply has the opportunity to speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-28-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/15968. Proposal for a Law No 1 on the Publication of an Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the International Carriage of Passenger Transport and Freight by Road. This agreement was concluded with the aim of facilitating the bilateral promotion of passenger transport by coach to third countries or third countries between the Kyrgyz Republic and Hungary and the interconnection of the two countries. Indeed, as my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs said, even in the airline, the two countries are separated by 4 thousand kilometers, and there are extremely diverse terrains between these two countries, and especially in Kyrgyzstan: the mountain range of 6 to 7 thousand metres is not uncommon. The road passenger and freight links between the Kyrgyz Republic and Hungary were previously and currently regulated by the Convention between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Soviet Socialist Republics on international motor vehicle transport signed in Budapest on 19 March 1966. During the high-level negotiations between the parties, a new bilateral agreement was regularly on the agenda, on the one hand, as the existing convention is very old and, on the other hand, Kyrgyzstan has been independent since 1990 as a successor country to the Soviet Union, and it has indeed been appropriate to conclude a bilateral agreement. The authorisation to establish the agreements was originally granted in accordance with Article 33/2008. The Prime Minister's decision of 24 July was launched with the countries of the region, i.e. the Gyurcsány government, which stated in 2008 that these bilateral agreements should be renegotiated with the successor states of the Soviet Union and new contracts should be concluded. The time has become very long, because these types of agreements with the successor states of the Soviet Union were concluded in the Central Asian region by 2020. Since last year, several of these have been ratified by the Hungarian Parliament, and now we have an agreement with Kyrgyzstan. A rather complex and extremely bureaucratic authorisation system has been developed in this proposal. His preparatory work considered that this relationship between the two countries should be characterised by very close and very strong regulation, and then practice will decide both in this agreement and in the other agreements that have already been ratified whether the two countries will benefit from it and that this extremely bureaucratic licensing system can be maintained. Anyway, after 12 years, we got here. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you about the history of Kyrgyzstan. The history of the Kirgizs can be traced back to the year 201 prior to our Common Era. The old Kyrgyzstans lived in the upper valley of Jenisei, in the centre of Siberia. The Kyrgyzstan state was able to reach its greatest extent when it defeated the Uighur Khanate in 840 to this community, Hungary's ancient history was very much related, and then the Kyrgyzstanites migrated rapidly to the Tien-san Mountains, where they were able to maintain their dominance for the next two hundred years. [[12.40]] Annex XII is replaced by the following: In the first century, the area of Kyrgyzstan dominance was limited to Altai and Sayan, after the Mongolian expansion conquered very serious areas. When it comes to the XIII. The Mongol Empire was founded in the century, then virtually the Kyrgyzstans marched south. In 1876 they were attached to the Russian Empire, the Russians had to face a number of rebellions against the Tsarian power, many Kyrgyzstans went to Pamyr and Afghanistan instead. After the uprising in Central Asia in 1916 many fled to China. Since ethnic groups in the region are still divided by national borders, i.e. people from the same people live in many countries, there have been constant riots and disagreements between countries. People moved back and forth in the mountains, depending on which country they were living in, where more rain had rained, or where the government's oppression was more bearable. Then Soviet power was introduced in the region in 1919, the territory was initially part of the Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic of Turkestan, and when this was abolished, on 14 October 1924 the Autonomous Region of Kara-Kirgiz was established in the same area as today's Kyrgyzstan. On 25 May 1925, the Autonomous Area became the Autonomous Area of Kyrgyzstan. Then the country went through numerous changes in public law, the Stalin constitution of course had to be seen as their own, and finally, this country was called the Kyrgyz Soviet Socialist Republic until the change of regime or independence. In the twenties culture, public education and social life developed significantly in Kyrgyzstan, literacy introduced an extensive, standardised literary language, and when Russian nationalism began to develop quite strongly in the thirties, but from then on development and cultural development stopped. The initial years of glasnosty had little effect in Kyrgyzstan, given the fact that it was a rather strong Soviet influence and economically highly dependent on the Soviet Union, but politics was increasingly making liberal noises, and therefore significant changes took place since 1990. In the referendum on the survival of the Soviet Union, which was in March 91, surprisingly still 88.7 percent of Kyrgyzstan said that the Soviet Union should survive. But then on August 19th, a coup occurred, the result being that the president and the vice-president quit the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and declared their independence on August 31st. Since then, there has been no real peace in the country, there have been riots every few years as a result of ongoing conflicts between the political class and the people, and as long as the country's leader is the richest man in the country, then we can imagine the root cause of the conflicts. On 26 December 1991 Hungary recognised the Kyrgyz Republic as an independent state, we took up diplomatic relations on 12 April 1992, Hungary exercises diplomatic relations through the Ambassador of Nur-Sultan and Kyrgyzstan in Vienna. Our country has been running an honorary Consulate in Biskek since 2001 and an honorary consulate in Osh since 2017. The Russian and Chinese companies have taken serious positions in the Kyrgyzstan economy, and it is advisable to count on their competitors. Not surprisingly, in the world, especially in developing regions, there is a general Russian, Chinese economic influence, virtually between the two countries in Asia and Africa, a war of influence within each country. In Kyrgyzstan, corporate income tax is 10 percent, personal income tax is 10 percent, VAT is 12 percent and sales tax is between zero and 3 percent. It maintains a fairly fair tax system in Kyrgyzstan, so since we have such a high level of relations, we can learn from them to maintain tax rates and tax rates. My fellow Member, Mr Ander, spoke about our bilateral economic and trade relations. Indeed, you are right, it is not very possible to say that the trade relationship between the two countries is so excessive and prosperous. I've been looking into the data, and in the last ten years, our Kyrgyzstan exports reached their peak in 2014, amounting to 17 million $930,000. Our imports are so small that the highest rate of the last ten years has been 175 thousand dollars, we can practically import certain tobacco products from Kyrgyzstan, but in exports, as you rightly said, my colleague Gyula Molnár is an 80 percent export participant of Gedeon Richter, 15 percent of the plastic material and 3 percent of the maize seed is involved in our external trade and exports to Kyrgyzstan. It is practically Gideon Richter, a public limited liability company, which has its own commercial representation in Kyrgyzstan. Of course, I support the ratification of the agreement, because the aim of our country is to maintain a balanced relationship with all countries and a fruitful relationship in the interests of our nation, and in this respect, I am linked to the leader of the LMP faction, the value of each relationship only until then and the value of each relationship that serves our nation's interests. We cannot deliver ourselves to a single country because our nation's independence, economic and political independence is above all else. We're a small country, we have to be friends with everyone, but we can never help anyone. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-28-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members, as part of their agenda, they wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-04-28-31	Thank you very much for the floor. If I were to remain strictly on the subject of the bill and not risk the presidential reprimand, I could only say that I would like to thank everyone very much for their valuable contributions and for their supporting contributions to the adoption of the bill. But at the risk, with a few sentences, I try to respond to what was said in the debate. On the one hand, I think it was exciting to hear Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea's presentation on the history of Kyrgyzstan. Thank you for sharing this with us. He showed a great resemblance to the relevant article in Wikipedia, so anyone who needs more information can certainly get buried there. I am also particularly grateful to Congressman Molnár for his praise for the ITM for our tempo. Frankly, I have been given such a kind sentence in the Parliament for a long time, and I am particularly grateful to the Member. Thank you, of course, for Mr Ander's contribution, who has been on similar topics as Mr Kereszt. I have to respond here in so far as it does not belong to the subject matter of the bill, its subject matter is strict that we are interested in representing the Hungarian national interest. There was a government in the country that did not represent the Hungarian national interest, honourable Member, but the national civilian government does so every day. That's what he does when it comes to external relations, and that's what he does when it comes to foreign economies. That's what we work for. It is very strange to hear a left-wing Member asking us to do so, honourable Member. The fact is that what you have said is a good example of how diversely important it is to serve the interests of Hungary, because, honourable Member, you can see and know very well that the Eastern opening and the southern opening policy has made its own success, and that does not, of course, mean that we are not part of the Western federal system, or that we are not important, whether European or transatlantic, but that the Southern and Eastern opening has its results, otherwise it has been shown in the last year, Mr President. And the fact that the Hungarian national interest is well served by this government is well demonstrated by the fact that in your faction countless Members and your family members and millions of people in the country can be vaccinated with, among other things, the vaccine, which is the only protection in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, because otherwise the country's eastern opening policy worked and we have obtained vaccines that other countries did not have access to. [[12.50]] Honourable Congressman, So it clearly shows that it is worth pursuing this policy. And you did ask for more specifics and more specific projects, and I don't think it would be appropriate for me to go without saying a word, or for the terms you used. Because you said that we have surrendered to China and that we have an alliance with the commies and an agreement. Honourable Congressman, You are in complete misunderstanding, even because if you know the meaning of the word submission, you and your party did it to Ferenc Gyurcsány, and if you are looking for communists, you will find them there. So, Congressman, that was a very good sentence for you, but you know it's not true. On the other hand, you are asking us for transparency, if I understand correctly, in connection with the Fudan agreement, which we do not conclude with the Chinese Communist Party, but with the Fudan University, you know exactly that, if you had listened to our dialogues over the last few weeks, because I have had the opportunity to discuss this specific matter with you on many occasions. But the truth is, what I've seen in the last few weeks is that you're just talking, but you don't hear what I'm saying. But I will now try to say again that you are again in grave misunderstanding, Your Honour. Yesterday was signed: the Minister of Innovation, responsible for higher education, concluded the appropriate strategic cooperation agreement with the University of Fudan. We informed the press about this and put the text of the agreement on kormany.hu, available to everyone. Mr. Congressman, if you did not want to create such false problems, if you were to be informed, if you were to look into the issues you are talking about here in Parliament, I would not have to correct the factual errors, inaccurate information and serious attempts to mislead the public, which you are trying to do over and over again on various issues. Allow me to recommend to your attention the interface of kormany.hu and the reading of the press communications that we regularly do. Honourable Congressman, So that I don't draw the line too long, and that time shouldn't pass, because we've had the opportunity to talk about the Budapest-Belgrád railway many times, but it shouldn't hang in the air. You know perfectly well that it is a particularly significant investment in the development of railways from a national strategy point of view, which you used to call yourself a green party, attacking again and again in Parliament as a so-called Green Party representative. For me, this is politically incomprehensible, and it is also incomprehensible because it is attacking the development of a railway investment which is, moreover, a European Union obligation for Hungary. This is part of the TEN-T rail network. We have to do this. You are in a fraternity with Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is talking about a federal Europe or a European united states, and that is why you are fighting. After that, you are attacking an investment that you are carefully telling him, which is also our European Union obligation. But just to try to affect your heart, you are attacking an investment that will bring Hungarians in Vojvodina closer to Hungary, as this investment will result in a much faster rail connection with Hungarians in Vojvodina, and a fraction of the travel time between Budapest and Belgrade will also be reduced. I understand that as a so-called pro-green politician, you support flying or driving, I don't know what a strange attitude is, but if that's what green pro-greenism and climate protection means to you, then just inform the Hungarian public that you think more cars and more planes are needed, and I don't know what to spend on rail development. This is an important investment that connects two capitals and develops Hungarian-Hungarian relations. So let me say again: the European Union's obligation, Hungarian-Hungarian relations, connecting two capitals, otherwise it also promotes the green transport that is important to you in principle, and, in addition, let us not forget that it makes Hungary an important logistics route that can further strengthen the Hungarian economy, as Hungary can become a very important hub for an important trade route from which large quantities of goods flow during the operation of the global economy. And indeed, this has a serious job-creating effect, it has an economic development effect, and it also provides a lot of work and livelihoods for many Hungarians when carrying out the investment. Honourable Congressman, It is false when you are attacking this investment and trying to create a political mood; just as this is true of the Fudan investment, which we have had the opportunity to discuss several times, and as is the case with Paks II investment, but I think you will have the opportunity to state your position today on various legislative proposals, as you did yesterday. And then, I hope you get a proper professional answer. I wouldn't be wasting the time of the Honourable Parliament. Finally, in addition to the debate, allow me, however, to thank you personally and all the Members, Members and Members who have spoken in all the debates, for their comments and valuable thoughts, and to ask you once again to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-28-32	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Thank you for your cooperation. The session will be handed over to Vice-President János Latorcai. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-04-28-33	I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain transport laws until closure. The government referral is T/155992. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-34	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm risking a presidential reprimand, but I'm trying not to take advantage of the time frame at my disposal. Dear Parliament, The bill before you includes amendments to a number of laws and regulations, including the road transport law, the law on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy, including the rules on road transport infrastructure investments, and the toll law relating to the transport of motor vehicles with a maximum permissible toll weight of more than 3.5 tonnes. Dear Parliament, The aim of the amendments to the legislation relating to road infrastructure development is to facilitate, accelerate and increase the cost-effectiveness of investments. The package also complies with our country's legal harmonisation obligations and includes codification and technical clarifications. The amendment to the Law on Road Transport also includes, in the light of the provisions of the Law on National Property, that the properties acquired by road builders to the State for the purpose of the investment and other assets are, by virtue of the law, subject to a contract of property management between the builder and owners. [[13.00]] It further clarifies that the category of road which ceased to exist with the entry into force of this Act on 1 July 1988, the property currently registered in the real estate register, which is registered as a private road for its own use, and that it requires an administrative procedure for its closure or opening. The amendment of the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses serves the accuracy of data requests in electronic administration. The Hungarian transport policy, including air transport policy, the approval of concepts for the development of air transport, and the organisation of their implementation, are the responsibility of the State. It is of particular importance that the requirements in the concepts to ensure the development of air transport and the proper provision of air transport related activities are reflected in the documents defining the operation of airports, ensuring uniform enforcement of the objectives set by the State. In this context, the amendment of the Aviation Act requires the operator of the airport to specify, depending on the nature of the airport, the requirements, measures to ensure compliance with the Hungarian transport policy and aviation policy, in particular the development, service and safety performance indicators. The amendment of the Road Transport Register Act is necessary for further clarification of the previous transposition of the EU directives. It also includes a more detailed regulation of automated search for the exchange of vehicle technical data under the Directive and an amendment to the Directive on the interoperability of toll systems within the European Union. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Water Transport Act clarifies the harmonisation and data management provisions. The law on rail transport provides clarification, as well as clarification regarding data processing, regulatory control and data reporting. The amendment to the Act on Accelerating and Simplification of Investment of Special Economic Importance states that the builder of national roads may also have the utility provider design the public works to be replaced or built. The amendment of the Passenger Services Act is now necessary to replace the inappropriate reference of the info law. The amendment of the Toll Act serves to transpose other clarification proposals for a directive regulating the interoperability of toll systems within the European Union and providing users with access to electronic toll payments through a single on-board device. Dear Parliament, For the reasons set out above and for the purposes set out above, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-28-35	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Barcza. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-36	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A total of ten amendments to the bill on the amendment of certain transport-related laws before us are initiated. In my speech as Chief Speaker, I am only trying to highlight the most important changes from these. The amendment to the Law on Road Transport of 1988 also contains new elements, taking into account the provisions of the National Property Act, as we have heard from the Minister of State in the Expoze, what exactly is subject to a property management contract; I would not repeat that. In the interest of legal certainty, the proposal clarifies that the category of road which ceased with the entry into force of this Act on 1 July 1988, the property currently registered in the real estate register, which is registered as a private road for its own use, and that it requires an official authorisation to block or open it. Here, I would like to point out that Hungary currently has approximately 1500 of these properties. NIF Zrt. may also carry out construction tasks on local municipal property, such as bicycle roads, on the basis of a separate order. In order to ensure that this task is carried out quickly and easily, it is necessary to ensure work in the area concerned, which is also covered by the rules in this proposal. Dear House, As far as road transport is concerned, it is important to note that since 2010 the government has paid particular attention to the development of the Hungarian road network. At the launch of the 3200 billion HUF road programme, half of the Hungarian settlements and nearly three quarters of the inhabitants had the opportunity to reach a motorway within half an hour. By 2025, it will be true for three quarters of the Hungarian settlements and nine out of ten Hungarians to live 30 minutes away from the motorway network. After creating a faster and more convenient access between rural cities and priority economic areas, and here I would like to thank the Hungarian Government specifically for connecting Sopron, the centre of my constituency, to the motorway network a few months ago, and for the other settlements such as Fertőd, Fertőszentmiklós, Szakony, Lövő, Újkér, in less than 30 minutes, the fast-track connection built this transport. Once county-owned cities and border crossing points are built, the elements of the ring may also be built. One of these is the future M9, which leads from Sopron to Szombathely, Zalaegerszeg, Keszthely, Kaposvár, Pécs, Mohács, Szeged, then Békéscsaba and Debrecen to Nyíregyháza. By amending the Act on Accelerating and simplifying the feasibility of investments of major importance for the national economy, it is also clarified that the builder of national roads can also have public utilities designed for replacement or construction with the public utility provider. In addition, it is appropriate to regulate in the law that, in addition to premises, other non-residential real estate may be terminated in respect of the legal relationship conferred by the builder, developer, on the third party by the right of possession. In view of the fact that the holder is entitled to full compensation, i.e. unconditional compensation, the right to possession is not violated. With the amendment of the Act on Air Transport 1995, among the examination tasks carried out by the air transport authority, the statutory examination tasks are carried out by the Transport Performance and Examination Centre Nonprofit Kft. In the future, the operator of the airport shall establish in the aerodrome manual all requirements, measures to ensure compliance with Hungarian transport policy and aviation policy, in particular development, service and safety performance indicators. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Law on Water Transport 2000 must be made primarily for the purposes of harmonisation of laws. The amendment of the 2005 Rail Transport Act was required by legal clarification, as well as clarification of data management, regulatory control and reporting. It is important to note that rail development in Hungary has continued on a large scale in recent years. The reconstruction of Nyugati Railway Station and Keleti Railway Station has already begun in Budapest, and they are expected to be completed in 2021 and 2022. In relation to the priority railway development, agglomeration development, such as the renewal of the Budapest-Veresegyház-Vác or Budapest-Lajosmizse railway line, can take place in 2021-2022. And at the end of the previous bill on international rail development, we have received abundant information from the secretary of state once again in the Expo. The amendment of the Road Transport Register Act includes a more detailed regulation of automated search to exchange vehicle technical data under the Directive and an amendment to the EETS Directives governing the interoperability of toll systems within the EU, which is necessary for further clarification of the previous transposition of the EU Directives. Dear House, To sum up, I believe that the bill before us contains provisions that must be supported, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support this bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.10]]
u2021-04-28-37	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, T/15992. The bill before us is a real traffic salad law, as it would amend ten previous laws, and it contains 67 paragraphs, not counting the closing provisions, which would make smaller or larger changes. In relation to these, we can say that most of it is absolutely of course to be supported, but let me draw attention to its salad character and its inability to handle it, that this is also about the Zrinyi military development programme, for example, that modern instruments will arrive in the country and that certain changes will have to be made to their operation. In other respects, however, the bill is, let's say, also about the stunt railways, something that should be fully supported. As a father of a child, I can say that if there were no change now, this would also be covered by the Railway Act, and it would certainly be necessary for railway safety permits and certificates to be able to operate, and that would not, naturally, be very much acquired, would not work, and many small children, including mine, would be sad about it. This is to describe what a comprehensive salad law this is. In addition, we can support a number of its elements. I didn't want to mention the Zrinyi military development program here either, because we know that a country that refuses to support its own army to bring such popular wisdom here will be condemned to support another army. But beyond that, we also have NATO obligations that should be met, so there is no problem with that. The problem, let's say, is that this whole proposal is difficult to deal with in this form, but that should be our problem and our problem. Here are other points that we can also support, namely the fact that many roads have been listed as a road category that has ceased 33 years ago, so that they are taken out, as their own use in real estate registers, and this affects about 15 thousand real estates, and that makes it difficult for these investments that start there to be sufficiently effective and that this change may be necessary in terms of legal certainty, so we can support it. Or we can accept the revision and clarification of the rules on the regulation of exam centres and the examination of road transport professionals. The regulation on the return of noise protection zones at airports should be fully supported, or the fact that the operator of the airport is obliged to operate in accordance with the domestic transport policy objectives, in this connection we would not be able to clearly say otherwise. Then the need to comply with certain EU directives in transport policy is self-evident. The need to create, say, the legal environment necessary to use the registration of temporary Z, E, M or P plates is also clear. In particular, it should be supported that electronic toll payment systems within the EU can be interoperable and, if there is a failure, information can be obtained in a cross-border manner. We are a transit country, half of Europe's traffic is raging through us, so it is in our primary interest to make progress in this regard and to allow the Hungarian control bodies to consult other Member States' vehicle registers. The fact that, in the event of an irregular ownership situation, let us say, in the case of a prolonged legacy procedure, priority investments in infrastructure are to be considered as a caretaker is also not a devil, although we obviously have some maintenance in relation to the way the government has done so far. The fact that there can be a legal relationship with real estate in the case of economically important transport infrastructure investments which hinders investment, and I would like to amend this in line with the model of the housing law, would also be acceptable, but let me refer to the 2006 LIII. by law, which, you must say, we have not loved since Ferenc Gyurcsány in better colors, and since your actions, we have hated and hated this law. We are talking about investments of major importance for the national economy. And why do we have any reservations about that? Just because what we had already challenged as a party outside Parliament, namely the fact that it contradicts the principle of subsidiarity in certain aspects of democratic law, and, let us say, the division of power can be smeared, and the settlement planning can be placed in parentheses, the fact that the wishes and wishes of the local authorities and the local interests are also negligated, the fact that it already does not give a high consideration to environmental interests, if any, was unacceptable to us at the time, and then you have implemented this much more precisely and violently since then, so that we cannot accept it now, and that is why, in the end, we will have an attitude towards the bill. But, Secretary of State, allow me to fall into the petty culpability of the speech crime, and I see that I have some time left, so I'm going to bring in some local cases regarding the bill. If my fellow Member Barcza was pleased to report that the M9 will reach Sopron, and that the vast new course from Nyíregyháza will embrace Hungary from the east, the south and the west, then I must express my concern that there are areas, and indeed areas that have been reduced to a cumulative disadvantage, wiped from the map by systematic government policy, which will not benefit from this blessing. It's like South Somogy, the inner-somogy part. My fellow Member, Barcza, told me where this new transversal course will go as planned: Keszthely, Kaposvár. There was a previous version, which would have affected the Nagykanizsa-Kaposvár line, if we had only stayed in this narrower area, which could have been a solution to the economic and social problems that are only piling up, both from the point of view of South Zala and South Somogy, which I came from. Please, Mr Secretary of State, do not do what Minister Balázs Orbán did earlier to send me to the countryside so that I can look around my own homeland. I live there, I live there, so I can see exactly what is there, and I can see it and I can sense it, and I will bring it to you as an opposition Member of Parliament, that when this decision was leaked, the people living there, i.e. the inner and southern Somogy people, felt devastated, as if they had actually torn this region off of the body of Hungary. In one case, it could be, say, corrected in some way if the connecting roads were repaired and brought to a state that, let's say, deserves the people who live there. In this connection, there were a few, let's just say, with Mr Secretary of State, I also submitted a written question as to what is true then of the fact that road 68 will be renewed. Looks like it's a huge election bullshit. I wish very much, even from the opposition, I would never say that the worse for South and Internal Somogy, the better for the opposition, or for me, as a opposition actor, no. Build this road, fix road 68, which stains the back of it, life-threatening traffic. But the thing is, you didn't know either, Mr. Secretary of State, or at least you didn't give a concrete answer as to the overall amount of resources to refurbish road 68, which connects the county from the southwest of Lake Balaton, all the way to the Dráva, some 95 kilometers in length. [[13.20]] The Secretary of State did not answer what the citizens of Somogy could expect, when this would be ready. So it's not that they're going to start planning, and then there's going to be some bogus road-building workers there, if that's the case. No, that's not what this is about. When will this be fully restored? I would very much like to thank the Secretary of State for giving me a specific date for this. The thing is, I have the same request on Route 6. Route 6 is also a vital transport route for South Somogy and South-West Baranya, the link between Barcs and Pécs might still save this dying and sweeping area from a map. But what this is going to be and when it's going to happen, they also don't know the answer. We know that there was a government meeting in Spy in 2013, where all the good and all the good things were promised, but the implementation is only delayed. The people of Somogy, on the other hand, are desperate for this, and migration and population loss have grown to an extreme extent. In the last ten years, Mr. Secretary of State, and this has fallen to the time of your two-thirds reign, the population of Internal and South Somogy has decreased by 10 percent. In World War II, I have said many times, it is true that in other circumstances, Hungary lost 7% of its people. Not only do people in South Somogy shrink at such a rapid rate because birth figures are insufficient, but also because many people are forced to migrate from there because they cannot find a livelihood or at least find a normal living, and for many people there would be a career that has been outlined from the government's point of view that if they can't get a decent job, then there is public service. Well, thank you very much, you can't make a living in our community with 70 or a few forints a day. So I would like to answer these specific questions. We also talked about Budapest-Belgrád railway today, more than once. Jobbik is not an anti-railway party, but it must be seen that it is a completely opaque, vague project, without guarantees and promises, without warranty. In a low voice, we are talking about a project of three billion dollars, a large number of Chinese loans, from which the Prime Minister has left out of his declaration of assets, through his companies, a huge one. In the property of, the RM Zrt., the Fucking We Richen Zrt., the Lőrinc Mészáros has already cut out a lot of hundreds of billions of dollars. In this case, it must be added that there is a need for rail development in Hungary. But when we see, on the one hand, that a project is once again being filled with such sums in an opaque way, on the other hand, there is the line 41, the railway bridge between Ötvöskonyi and Beleg, which was taken by a lightning flood in the summer of 2020, and there is still no train transport, train replacement buses carrying this 45 thousand people on the monthly level, who have used the services of the section between Dombóvár and Gyényes, then I have to bring a comparison here as if the owner, Mr. Secretary of State, would put a marble floor in the hall. So it would be something like this about the Budapest-Belgrád railway. While the house is leaning on us in other respects, you're burning up the amount of money on this project that we can't agree with. But once again, there should be no misunderstanding: rail is safe, rail is energy-efficient, rail is, let's say, if we look at greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector alone, it has excellent indicators, so it is also environmentally friendly, so Jobbik supports railway projects. But if there is no limit to the amount of resources that can be used for this purpose within the country, then we do say that we need to consider twice what projects we are spending on, and that it should not be a 100-mile section that you are spending more than, in fact, on the country's railway infrastructure of over 7,000 kilometres, within the rural sections that I have just said to you, Mr Secretary of State. One more, there was talk of road renovations, that this government is spending unprecedentedly on road renovations. Well, let's see. There are 32,000 kilometers of national roads, 23,000 kilometers of which is the national side road. What was renovated was 88 kilometers last year. Well, if you're looking at those laws, those iron rules, how much would you have had to renovate in order not to be amortised, continuous depreciation? [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Secretary of State, about a thousand kilometers! We have 7,000 kilometers of main road, Mr. President, I'll finish it right away, thank you very much, you've renovated 44 kilometers of it last year. How much was it supposed to be? Well, that's a lot of times. Thank you for your attention. [[Tibor Bana applauds.]]
u2021-04-28-39	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-40	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This legislative amendment package has two important directions, as Mr Deputy Minister and my fellow Member Barcza have described in detail. One is the efficient development of road infrastructure itself, and the second is a question of harmonisation of legislation, and compliance with the obligation to harmonise legislation on tolls is necessary here. The purpose of the bill itself is, in particular, to transpose the necessary legislative amendments in the fields of rail, shipping, road and air transport into the existing legislation. These are amendments to a number of important detailed laws, but I would also like to highlight the amendment of the Road Transport Act, the Road Transport Register Act, as it is essential to improve the efficiency of investment in the development of road infrastructure, to clarify it and to further clarify the previous transposition of EU directives, and to regulate in more detail the automated search for the exchange of vehicle technical data under the Directive. The amendment to the Aviation Act was also presented by my fellow Member, Mr Barcza, Deputy Minister. What I would also like to point out is that the amendment to the law on charges for the use of motorways, highways and main roads, proportionate to the journey taken, is also important. In addition to the objective of harmonisation, the scope of exemption registration for the fee is also defined and the legal basis for applying for this is the authority. This legislative package contains a number of proposals to facilitate the application of the law, so KDNP supports it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-28-41	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With all due respect, I welcome you to the presidency. You missed a very good debate just now when we were discussing Kyrgyzstan road regulation. [[Defiance.]] He lost a lot, it was a very exciting and interesting debate. You should be sorry you arrived a little later. Well, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I would not like to give up a ball so high that the Secretary of State can say once again that he has never received such praise. But I really would like to lift my imaginary hat now again, that in these troubled times, when there really are thousands of billions of people flying around here, when we are really voting professionally for two and a half hours on how to shovel out state property, you have time for such a law. But really, honestly, they're touching the road, the air force, the water, everything, and they're totally not on top of it, so in such big processes... they're able to get right into the deep layers. So, either that or you have a colleague who's been doing this for 30 years, and he's got a drawer full of better proposals like this, and they've told him there's a moment here, and he's gonna have to sit here all afternoon, and there's gonna be another law that you're gonna carry in this House, and obviously someone's gonna come and replace you sooner or later, and then he's gonna take over. So, really, I have to say, I'm already lifting my hat. When there's energy and time to regulate something so sophisticated and so profound, so I'm really proud. [[13.30]] I would like to point out three short things, but really just for ease. On our part, on the end of what my better fellow Member said, there is more dilemma here than conviction, so we are not yet determined to give our vote. Who the hell would've thought that ten, twenty years ago there was such a deep need to regulate the aircraft licenses? We've come to the point of making such rules. As I understand it, Secretary of State, there are so many people flying a plane that there must be specific rules on how, how, how. 'Cause that's what shipping is like, we're used to it. But as I understand it, they had to apply very deep and serious regulations here as well. The other is the priority investments. Congressman Ander has already mentioned this; he has made a parallel between us, hasn't he? I'm not defending it. We don't like what you've brought this thing to. Because what we're talking about here is that they're increasingly shutting out anything that might slow down, cause problems, or don't give, God, it costs more. But let's just say more of it will be better for the neighborhood. So we see, more and more, that the intention of what was at the time of government before 2010 so that certain truly high-ranking investments, if any, cannot be slowed down in some way, is that one's individual interest is always above Community interest, otherwise the biggest dilemma in local politics is how, how, in order to reconcile the Community interest with individual interests, you have developed it to perfection. And as far as I can tell, they're going another way. So we really get to the point that no one in any form will have the opportunity and say that if you put the priority investment stamp on something, how, how, you can change it so that it is more acceptable to the neighborhood. The third thing I want to say to you is that I was very frightened when I first read the bill. I was scared that the airports below 4500 could practically break loose, that there would be completely different regulations, but I understood, and in the expoze, he said that he was actually out of the circle that had to be defined by the higher legislation, the EU rules, but we will still not let go of people's hands. Let me give you a personal example from my own constituency. I have the airport in Budaörs, and we know it's here, it's here, and I think that as the world evolves, it's becoming more and more a local airport. But what I can see is that such an airport management and the aviation authorities can close us up in such a way that there are problems and concerns in the population, but really, honestly, it is simply impossible to find a gap in this. We have rational proposals, and we have two mayors; and I am not even accused of being single, because on one side we are making proposals together with the pro-government and on the other side we are making proposals on how, how, and how, we can relieve the residents of the area, and we see us bouncing among the authorities. Really! But we'll talk about this separately someday, and I'll ask you a parliamentary question, and maybe I'll find a simpler answer, because I couldn't break the Mayor of Budafoki completely. I'm just going to tell you this here in plenary because you wrote something in that letter that I can't see, but I'm only telling you this in parentheses, because that's the answer I got. The point is, once again, I would like to lift my imaginary hat in front of you so that you can make such deep rules in these times of distress. We've had our share, but I'll say it again, based on what they're going to change, we can't say that we're going to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-28-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-44	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am not going to join in with the silent exultation of Members, because I would also like to ask some questions which, I think, can be considered more exciting for the Secretary of State, but the answer may be even more exciting if he can answer them sooner or later. Just because we have a bill before us once again, which saves us the impact assessments that you have an obligation under your own legislation. You guys don't do that, so I'm gonna have to throw it at you in any case. In particular, if they try to amend ten laws at the same time, and they want us not to have the feeling that those who are following this, and they really want to understand the intention behind each initiative, that there should not be such a bad feeling that there might be something hidden here, something that needs to be noticed, because we are not in a shared information situation. I therefore believe that both ex ante and ex post impact assessments are necessary. Just because a few months ago, they had a proposal to amend certain laws on the subject of transport, namely T/13482. under the number below. So, you guys are gonna get back to normal. You're gonna get one of these. It is clearly important that steps be taken in this area. In this sense, there is agreement between us that the automotive industry, transport, which is a key element in the near future, even in the context of the new industrial revolution, is of particular importance. It is of particular importance that what we will discuss later is the values that need to be met from a different energy perspective. We are in favour of helping to meet not only the challenges of the present but also the future by spreading clean vehicles. As regards the draft law, we have several examples that do not help to reach agreement. One of these concerns the organisation of air transport. I am pleased to hear the words of the people who specifically spoke in Budapest, in its northern area, from many districts and many people said that what happened in Hungary a good year ago was certainly unacceptable. If, in response to this, you say that it is possible to relieve the burden, not only by dreaming of the airport in Kecskemét, which I see as being recently laid down; instead, if you are doing those enlargements in Ferihegy and, as we saw yesterday, you will conclude special Chinese agreements for the carriage of goods, which, with very ambitious plans in this case which significantly increase the traffic of aircraft I referred to are part of the efforts to create an air silk road, then I think you will be facing many criticisms, because I do not yet see the organisation, but again, in the absence of the impact assessments that you are denying us, or may have, but you will not give. Therefore, I ask with respect that if there is, you can get it, and if you don't, why don't you do it, because it follows that they are essentially wandering forward, trying to go in some direction, but in this respect you are also relying on feelings rather than on facts. On these very specific issues, too, I believe that what you have put before us will only be partially useful to Hungarian citizens. Next thing I know, they're always speeding up. I do not know which stage they are now in, when they return two, out of the clutch, and with full throttle in advance, or even with a gradual acceleration, all construction activities want to remove obstacles to all public investment. [[13.40]] I believe that, in many cases, there is a need for meaningful dialogue. As an example, I can mention to you yesterday, when you are not having a meaningful dialogue on the use of EU funds from the point of view of transport development, and there are consequences, or consequences, that I think you have chosen the wrong direction and that small, small or even rapid, steps in the wrong direction have serious consequences. And then I'll make decisions, and I'll say a third one that relates to rail transport, which I have to say here in the third case and call attention to how they think this great regulation is right, if they can't respond to such small steps as that at an Istvántel station on the border of Újpest and Rákospalota for nearly a hundred years, they can't renovate the pedestrian overpass for transport, and instead they tell citizens to go there for two kilometers and one-and-a-half kilometers, walk there, and then come back to this railway stop, instead of doing it for a substantial amount of money, they might not necessarily have to do it with Lőrinc Mészáros, and then they will essentially have to do it at half a price, but by increasing or creating safety for citizens. Because what happens instead? They stumble between trains of suburban transport on railway tracks. We all know that this has caused life - threatening and even fatal deaths here, too, in the vicinity of this place. I therefore believe that if the effects of the general regulation are not taken into account, and there are such consequences, that these specific tasks are not being carried out, then I think what they are doing is meaningless. Therefore, I respectfully suggest that you pay more attention to these small issues, for example, in the case of rail transport, and that this would not otherwise require any amendment to the law, but this is, in the interests of the safety of citizens, a step that the government has the resources to take, and I think that it could decide to do indeed to improve this pedestrian overpass. So on this basis, we will consider the eligibility of this law. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mr László Keresztes, leader of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Members have already given a very detailed description of the aspects of this law, and some of its elements have already been criticised, and I also think it is important that they have stressed that there is relatively little information available to assess the effects of the bill, taking into account how many important legislative proposals are being amended. At the same time, I can say that there are obviously positive elements in this bill, there are a lot that can be considered completely technical, but there are also elements that make it clear to us that we will not be able to support this bill. I do not want to waste the Parliament's time, so I will not repeat what my fellow Members have said, but I would like to make some reference to the fact that here we will vote or vote against this bill mainly because of our concerns about the amendment of the key investment law or about the prevention of chain debts, or because of our concerns about the amendments to that effect. At the same time, I must also respond to the pro-government speeches and, in part, to the Minister of State's exposé. We can say that there has been some kind of success propaganda here, especially from the pro-government Members of Parliament in terms of the government's transport policy. Well, we have to respond to that, so in the Parliament's minutes, let's make it clear what has been said, which is completely untrue, and what is the reality of your transport policy performance. By the way, I am surprised that this bill was brought to Parliament by the Secretary of State, Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, I recall that not so long ago there was a State Secretary in charge of transport policy within the Ministry of Innovation, Mr Mosóczi State Secretary [[Tamás János Schanda: There is now!]] At times, he could still be argued with. However, this is such an interesting trend for the government, that, for example, in the event of an amendment to the law which fundamentally affects higher education, let alone the Minister responsible does not enter the Parliament, but the State Secretary responsible for higher education, József Bódis, is not present. We are now at the point where the bill on transport policy is presented to the Parliament, not by the State Secretary responsible for transport policy, but by the Deputy Minister. [[János Schanda Tamás intervenes.]] Anyway, it's obviously the government's decision, your decision, the Ministry's decision to take these matters seriously, or I don't know if they're taking a professional or political approach. To me, basically, I say this is my problem that I do not have a problem with the person of Deputy Minister Schanda on higher education, I would rather have a policy debate with the State Secretary responsible for higher education and with the State Secretary responsible for transport policy. However, I can say that in this way, I am trying briefly to respond to the pro-government speeches that we can now essentially evaluate eleven years from your performance and no concept can be recognised in terms of transport policy. They missed the basics of the essentials! reforms, which we had expected in vain before 2010, were still lagging behind despite your promises, and where further criticisms of previous policy makers, which you know from the period from 98 to 2002, have been gained, namely, by high-ranking, former high-ranking government officials, who have been critical of the government's failures and of its fundamentally bad transport policy decisions. And I can also say that your actions and the absence of measures from the other side can be assessed by your betrayal of the Hungarian countryside. He criticizes many times, personally criticizing governments before 2010 despite their youth. Otherwise, in many cases criticisms of the transport policy measures of the pre-2010 Balliberal governments are justified, but you have already surpassed the mistakes made at the time. I will give you an example: for example, by attacking the rural railway sidelines, I think they no longer have any moral basis to criticize in relation to the period before 2010. The Secretary of State has just had some of these comments in one of today's debates, we can say that it is not my job; and it is also my job to have these kind of attacks come off of me, Mr. State Secretary, there is no problem with that, and I certainly do not blame you for living in Budapest, for seeing the world from Budapest, that it may seem a little distant from Budapest, let us say, the Ormans, these remote rural areas seem to be remote, and, of course, from the position of Deputy Minister, the problems with which you are facing every day are also subject to a different assessment. I live in Pécs, in an area of Pécs, which is a former village, i.e. a village now belonging to Pécs, administratively. I am a proud Hungarian countryman from Pécs, I live 220 kilometers away from the capital, and this has always been the case, and I will always be Pécs and Baranya. So I would like this to be included in the parliamentary record that your attack was completely unfounded. The fact that you constantly abuse the LMP calls into question the fact that, as a green party in Hungary, we are basically representing the principles of sustainability here in particular as regards transport policy, that is your problem. Obviously, a little... I don't want to get into what your party's specific role or function is, or the basis of its existence within such a so-called government coalition, I think we're gonna let that happen now; I'm not really mad at you for that, obviously, a party political consideration that you're constantly scolding the LMP, constantly questioning my commitment. I'm asking you not to question where I live, okay? So I think we should make this clear that you live in Budapest, I live in Pécs, I live in Baranya, I live in the county seat of one of the country's break-down regions. At the same time, I cannot go without saying what shameful measures you are taking, what damage you are doing to the Hungarian countryside and any Hungarian citizen who is affected will be adversely affected by your dilettious actions or even by the failing measures. [[13.50]] Here, the pro-government representatives have also talked a lot about how much they have achieved, what results they have achieved in terms of developing the road network. You've already said different big numbers about how many road renovations have taken place today. Well, I can tell you, Mr. Secretary, according to the statistics, there are 17,000 kilometers of lower roads in the wrong or the wrong category. You have not found a solution to this problem, but you refuse to acknowledge it, you refuse to face it. And I have already mentioned today that the length of roads that can no longer be repaired by maintenance, renovation, will require reconstruction. I would add that this 17,000 kilometers is the statistics on public roads, and I do not really have any statistics on how bad the roads in the maintenance of municipalities are, but we can encounter shocking situations every day. I don't want to talk about this for a long time, but let me give you a few examples. A few days ago I was in the village of Tamás, and the state of the connecting road between Tamási and Kecsegepuszta, otherwise in the interior, is something quite criminal and outrageous. This road has reached such a state that hundreds of people will also be provided with community transport on this road, that the Volán company has already informed the municipality that if they do not repair this road, they will stop the transport of buses, because this road is not in such a state. The municipality does not have a chance to fix this road without resources, and this road is in a very shameful, shocking state. I suggest that you sometimes leave the borders of Budapest, Mr. Secretary of State, go to Tamási and Kecsegepuszta for example, take a look at this path, see the state of the roads that people are forced to take by bus and by car. We, last year or this year's budget, have put forward a proposal that would have put in place resources for this journey, but the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP, so the representatives of your party, have voted against it, so it is impossible for you to do the work you should have done. We have tabled an amendment and you have prevented this journey from being fixed. Obviously, I could list only examples for a week and almost daily; not only I, I think all my fellow Members will receive these examples. In the Ormania, in order not to go too far from Baranya, I saw a settlement where it was already in danger that an ambulance could get into the settlement, and unfortunately, there was a tragedy from such a situation. A little over a year ago, in February 2020, a tragedy occurred in Toszzeg, where a man died specifically because the road was in such a terrible condition that the ambulance did not get in there. This was also a municipal road, but it is clear that the municipalities do not have the resources to bring these roads, which provide the most basic conditions for transport, into a state of use. I repeat: 17,000 kilometers of roads await renovation, compared to this, you will provide money for the renovation of the 400450 kilometers of lower roads per year within the framework of the Hungarian village. That's pretty amazing. Well, here's an example: for the Budapest-Belgrád project, you spend 20 times as much money as you spend on the development of lower roads. I could go further with regard to the countryside, and I have already mentioned the outrageous attack on the rural railway sidelines, on which Mr Mosóczi, State Secretary, could not explain anything, by the way, at the time he was still in the Parliament, and he could be debated. With a ignominious measure, you have almost eliminated traffic, passenger traffic, in the case of more than 30 railway lines, referring to such an epidemiological agenda. Secretary of State, do you think it was a professional decision when rail transport was stopped or minimized? Instead, traffic was shifted to a replacement bus in an epidemiological situation, when it is clear that in such a significantly larger railway wagon it is much more possible to keep the protective distances needed to control the epidemic. In addition, even the CEO of the MÁV acknowledged that your ministry's dilettant decision meant a huge additional cost of billions. We could, for a long time, describe the damage that has been caused locally, in particular in certain specific areas. For example, in Baranya, on the line between Mohács and Villány, the journey time has doubled in terms of your dilettant actions, even though there is a quite good railway sideline. You have attacked me before, that this absolutely amazing, nearly a thousand billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrád railway project, contrary to national interests, is what we consider to be a betrayal of national interests. And what would we spend this money on? Well, for example, to repair railway lines, to improve infrastructure. Dear Secretary of State, You've done almost nothing in 11 years. , almost zero forints were spent to improve the infrastructure status of the railway sidelines. And in addition to you not doing this, on the other hand, the basic transport reform measures that would have given rise to the possibility of flight density, transport management and the organisation of different transport subsectors could make Community transport more competitive. So you have specifically betrayed rural areas, you are pursuing a rail-destroying anti-rural policy, and instead of restoring your infrastructure to the railway lines that are essential for rural life, you are spending money on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line serving Chinese interests. This is completely outrageous! Where is the basic transport reform that you have promised several times? Then, at times, campaign-like, every few years, they start to talk about the fact that there will be a single Community transport, there will be some kind of tariff community, and they will create an integrated, rhythmic agenda. Where is this? 'Cause, you see, at ministerial level, transport policy is no longer working, and I think the Minister has little time to communicate with the Minister of State responsible for transport policy, due to the many, many government commissioners of all kinds who have been appointed to run the Chinese projects. When will there be a meaningful transport reform in Hungary? When will there be substantial national bus production in Hungary, for example? This, too, sometimes as a campaign theme, comes up with you reviving it, strengthening the national bus industry. Well, we've seen one element of this: billion-dollar subsidies were granted, for example, to Chinese assembly plants, so in the framework of national bus manufacturing, you provided support to Chinese assembly plants. When will there be national bus production in Hungary, Mr. Secretary of State? If I am forced to ask you this question, as Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, as a competent comrade, practically all questions must be asked by you, but you may be able to answer that question. I don't have much time today, but I still have to respond to the question of motorway development. You are also very proud of this, and we have also been able to listen to the success propaganda from the pro-government representatives. I am following myself, Mr Secretary of State, in the debate on one of the items on the agenda today, I told you wrong: I said that by 2018, Viktor Orbán promised to extend the M6 motorway to the border, and I was wrong, Mr State Secretary, by 2016, so that two years earlier, Mr Orbán promised that the M6 motorway would be ready to reach the Croatian border; this did not happen. Do you have any explanation, Mr. Secretary, why the Prime Minister has failed to deliver exactly when he made the promise in person in Pécs that the M6 motorway will reach the border by 2016. It's 2021, the M6 highway didn't get a centimeter longer, and I go there relatively often. It is possible that groundwork preparations are taking place here and there, and I am very happy that, by the way, I will look at it, given that I live in Baranya County, I will look at it, but, Mr.Secretary of State, Prime Minister Viktor Pécs promised in 2016 personally that it would be completed in 2021. I'm very glad that the groundwork has been prepared here and there at least. Dear Secretary of State, What's the explanation for this not being done? And when will it be ready, has Congressman Ander Balázs referred to this, the M60 highway to the border? And if the Prime Minister has also personally promised to start building this in 2018, why didn't it happen? I understand it's 2021. Why did the Prime Minister again deceive people in Baranya and Somogy County in a very difficult area? If the Prime Minister fails to take responsibility for his unfulfilled promises [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Then at least the Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State, can explain to the people who live there. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-47	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. This will now be the first independent Member to come forward. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-28-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/15992. Parliament is discussing bill No.1, which amends ten laws on transport through paragraph 69. I must say, Mr State Secretary, that I will abstain from voting on this bill, although the proposal also contains a favourable rule, which I will refer to in my presentation. By the way, I did not draw this speech from the articles of Wikipedia. All legislative proposals in which investments of major importance for the national economy are mentioned are, of course, welcomed by the opposition with mistrust. [[14.00]] He takes it with mistrust because the government has developed the issue of the implementation of the priority investments in the national economy to such a level that it has almost eliminated the authorisation procedures for monitoring compliance with the most basic rules. For each investment, there are numerous rules and administrative procedures laid down in the existing legislation, and in order to deal with these issues, the government introduced a level of liberalisation with the Parliament, which inevitably created an enormous lack of confidence not only in the opposition but also in society. This proposal is also part of the proposal for investment in transport. This includes, among other things, not being able to turn to the organization that is involved in the investment, which is intended to turn to the Performance Certification Expert Body if the contractor does not receive the remuneration on time for his work in the course of the investment. The explanatory memorandum sets a peripheral example to prevent the completion of the investment, where, by the way, 100% of the state-owned investment is carried out on behalf of the State: the person who claims to have completed the task, but does not, but does submit his claim to this Performance Certification Expert Body. I would like to ask you, in order to say that there really is hardly any example in a bill to virtually tear and recreate a basic guarantee system, it is simply unacceptable, because with this provision the government is making completely vulnerable to private companies participating in all future public transport construction projects with 100% public investment. So from now on, if you cannot turn to this organisation, then the customer will say that I am not paying the fee for small business operators, the many subcontractors, because the budget is in a position right now, and they can't even turn to this organisation, which was supposed to help them get away with lawsuits, as soon as possible, those involved in business activities will get their income. So I think that the example in question is really only peripheral, that it breaks the guarantee of the whole system; in fact, I do not understand who had this unacceptable proposal in mind. Then, which is extremely negative in the proposal, this is about walking through private property, running over. I lived a lot in the socialist system, I even got my degree under it, but it's just a biological issue, because I was born at that time, so I didn't decide, and because of that, I grew up in the previous system, I remember pretty much the conditions there. Private property was everything but sacred. So in the socialist system it was one morning that a few lines of machinery were marching up, and Auntie Juli's land was run over loosely, and they did what they had to do, and then Aunt Juli could only turn to God and protest. So I don't really want that system back. Just think about it. If a person has a private property, tomorrow the state will figure out that he is doing something about, of course, not having to involve the private owner in the authorisation procedure, there is no need to contact the private owner in exploring more dangerous activities in the course of the investment. In fact, authorisation procedures are carried out in one day for investments of major importance for the national economy and without any professional supervision, and the rules are practically such that they can be avoided. And then there's the fact that even the private owner can't tell you to wait, so hold it right there, and I believe you want to build something here, but this property is mine! And for me, a self-respecting Democrat, the sanctity of private property, especially in a country where for 45 years there was a system where it wasn't sacred, and it was possible to do what they wanted. Any new proposal that contains such legislation will certainly not be supportive of it, because it could be an astonishing abuse. I'm just saying, as an example, the gigantic, insane construction project they were going to do in Balatonvilagos recently, which, by the way, they're still going to do, but now the government is scared. What was it there? We build what we want from a national economic point of view, the neighbouring small plots have nothing to do with the fact that otherwise a gigantic, I don't know how many bunk concrete seas flood the community's territory 8-10 metres from their house. So I simply refuse to accept this, and with all due respect, I ask the government to consider these proposals very carefully, because this is because the relationship with the Russians is irreversible, we are giving the Chinese space now to the new conquest, and then we will begin to completely destroy private property and make it second-rate in the ownership structure. It was in the socialist system; we don't want it again. Then there's the next one, well, that's great: it's a question of leases. If someone has a lease in an area where a transport investment is made, then they will, and they will, tell the tenant that from today on, you are no longer a tenant. The fact that he might be producing some kind of crop in that area is some kind of business that he can expect income from, in a well-thought-out and fair manner, and then, in such a static way, the investor says that we've given up your contract, you don't have a lease. It is proposed that both private owners are entitled to unconditional and full compensation when the property is taken from them, as well as the owner of the lease. How do we know this compensation will be adequate? Who's gonna figure this out? Someone in some law firm is writing a number? Well, there's no objection or objection. There is a law of expropriation in Hungary that can't even bring a lawsuit to the poor bastard from whom something is taken at some cost. So this proposal is just one element of a system of expropriation which has been in Hungary for many years, and only a few know it, because fortunately so far it has affected a smaller part of the population. These negatives, which is why I cannot support the proposal, but here is the question of the noise protection zone in the proposal, which I am glad to see in a bill, because I can give you a personal example of the abnormal conditions in Hungary at Ferihegy Airport I know that it is called otherwise, but I, while I live, will call it that and in relation to the residents of the area. I do not know, you know, fellow Members, but it is so that airplanes must be driven from their parking spaces with a non-started engine and their own engine power to the point of departure where passengers will take off or be loaded with goods, but with such a small car from the parking space which pushes the aeroplane, you must approach the starting point. Yeah, they just calculated very smart, especially foreign airlines that park their machines in Ferihegy, that it's much cheaper for them to start the engine at the stop where it's parked. And since an airplane's engine has to run for a while to be able to start with it at all according to professional regulations, so if there's a huge machine at the edge of the airport, 10-15 meters from the apartments, they'll start it up, and the engine will run for at least an hour, and then you'll go from here to your future starting point. Well, I know that because it's XVII-XVIII around Ferihegy airport. I've had a crowd of district people come to me months ago to help them, because neither the district government, nor the Ministry of Industry, nor the organisation itself, is willing to help them, because the reason why the machines there can't start themselves is the reason. Well, just 'cause they can't get started doesn't mean they're gonna get turned on. One thing is why I welcome this proposal for a rule, because I hope that, as a result, if airlines that are no longer willing to comply with air traffic rules at airports, because that is why these noise disturbances are created, perhaps by creating a noise protection system, there is a way to help XVII-XVIII. This is the difficulty of the district population. [[14.10]] By the way, I brought this up because with great respect, I would ask the Ministry's representative to pay attention to this problem. A lot of people are affected by this question: the airplane starts up at the parking lot, creating an amazing noise. A government must also pay attention to this, as we hear about the well-being of citizens every day in this House from the representatives of the government. If several of my fellow Members have mentioned the lack of a transport concept, that is a fact. There has been no conceptual development in transport over 11 years. I don't see why there's almost nothing to make the Danube sail. There's talk of it, there's conferences, but there's no real progress. The transport of goods by road is incredibly polluting and is extremely damaging to road safety. I can come from the Austrian-Hungarian border to Budapest without being able to go out into the outer lane for one second, because the trucks are constantly in the right lane. That's terrible. This means that these roads are saturated, meaning that it is unjustified to maintain such a transport system because it endangers the country's environmental and physical safety. And then I could say that the construction of transversal motorways and then, in particular, it is very delayed, and that the development of the economy is greatly hampered. I am very sorry that, even if there are positive elements in the proposal, and which contains the European directives, and which must be amended, these are justified, but others are unfortunately damaging the value of this proposal, so that is why I cannot support it. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-28-49	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make a two-minute comment, or if my fellow Members still wish to speak, then it is possible to speak in the debate with a push-button application. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you are, Secretary of State, your time frame is 30 minutes. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-50	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let me first of all thank you for the constructive contributions made in the debate. I regret that we have not been able to demonstrate in detail to the lead speaker of all the factions why it is necessary to accept this proposal. I hope, in the context of the closing, that I can dissipate those little misunderstandings, perhaps mostly due to lack of information or problems, and that I can encourage all the groups in this House to vote in favour of helping to bring this draft legislation into line with its legislation. On the one hand, Congressman Ander: I must admit, I take it as a compliment that he called it a salad law, that we are amending ten laws at once. I think it would be very difficult for the House to bring in all ten laws one by one with such amendments, because much more and much longer could be debated on these issues, and then we could be criticised for making the work of this House more difficult. I am confident that this is a transparent package, and we do bring the amending package relating to transport laws in almost every semester. This is only necessary because a significant part of this package of legislation is a legal harmonisation obligation. Such changes are due to our membership of the European Union. Even the Jobbik faction has to accept this, so we have to come to Parliament from time to time, from semester to semester, because of our obligations to harmonise the law, and this is how we connect the other necessary amendments and clarifications. The Member raised the question of legislative amendments necessary for the priority investment, which is a very important issue, I believe, in his speech, and then on several comments. Of course, the current government has a serious responsibility here. I think it's clear and clear. I believe that the successful investments made in recent years have proved it, and you may now believe that, in principle, during our governance, this is a well-functioning system, whose further improvement is, of course, an important goal, but it has already served the strengthening of Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, so that public investments that have a positive impact on all our lives, stand or sit on any side of the horseshoe can be implemented effectively, quickly and effectively. Therefore, with great respect, I would ask the left-wing Members, including the Jobbik Group, not to attack this amendment, because, as Mr Molnár may have said, and I would not want to hide behind his back, but it is indeed a matter of costing more of these investments if we did not do so. They would be more slowly realised, and there could be other problems with investment, and if necessary, investments would be completely impossible if this instrument were not in the hands of the current government. So, with all due respect, I would like to ask you to support this amendment. You can't want to make slower investments more expensive. You don't want to do that. I did not say this, but your left-wing ally, Mr Molnár, says that these investments would certainly be more expensive and slower. My request is that if you don't believe me, at least in the alliance, you have to believe each other. [[Balázs Ander: Lőrinc Ripper!]] He asked me about investments in Somogy. I can once again inform you of what I have informed you on several occasions, honourable Member, that Mr Moring and Mr Szászfalvi have worked very hard to improve road 68, and thanks to their effective work, the government is absolutely supportive of this investment, by the way. We have started to realise this investment. The preparatory work will be carried out, and this investment will be carried out in the coming years thanks to the two individually elected representatives of the two electoral districts. So my suggestion to me, honourable Member, is that, if this trip is important to you and to the people living in the region, you should thank the Members for the work they have done so far in order to refurbish road 68. I would also like to thank Congressman Molnár for his suggestions. I would start to feel bad myself if I received more compliments from Congressman, but thank you for what has already been done. The truth is, I'm proud of the Department of Innovation and Technology's team that you were able to prepare such legislative amendments. Indeed, in addition to preparing many other amendments and legislative plans, we clearly take this as a compliment, but it is a compliment to colleagues. Let me draw your attention to the fact that the airport in Budaörs may have come up as a concrete case. I am well aware of this case, because Congressman Zsolt Németh also worked a lot for it. [[Gyula Molnár intervenes.]] and has often indicated that he is also taking the representation of the district seriously, and is doing the right thing, by the way, I think that we should not deny this to him, he has repeatedly indicated this, and has actively lobbyed in order to change the flight schedule at Budaörs. By the way, thanks to the work of the Member, these decisions were also taken, and the airport was informed that the aviation authority had approved the amendment of the airport order, as I understand it, yesterday. [[14.20]] I can also reassure Mr Molnár that we will do everything in our power to ensure the well-being of the people in this area, together with Mr Németh. The next question that came up is maybe the M7... I'm sorry, but Congressman Ander may have suggested the construction of the section between M7 and Barcs. Here, too, the development is in progress. The 11.5 ton hull reinforcement and parallel bicycle path are also developed. I would also like to point out, in response to Mr Varju's comments, that much of the clarifications arising from the experience of directives, technology and the application of law are being made here, so I can reassure Mr Varju that instead of the various analyses and expensive expert studies that have been missing, it is worth starting from reality, and the reality is precisely based on the technical clarification of the directive and the experience of the practice of law enforcement. I believe that this is a sufficient assurance that the legislation is going in the right direction, and so I can sincerely encourage the members of the Democratic Coalition to vote bravely on the draft legislation before us. He also said sentences about the poor condition of an Istvántelek railway transceiver, I believe, Congressman. Here I can tell you that the MÁV has answered the problems raised with detailed professional content for the Member two weeks ago. I hope that you will study what the MÁV has said. What I have to say about the points raised by Mr Keresztes Group leader: Mr Keresztes Group leader is able to raise more and more questions about the debate on a bill at an impressive pace. Neither the subject of the bill nor my writing speed limits the scope of the broad topics and the amount of questions that the Member can raise. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: MPs from the Government...]] I really appreciate this ability, and I'm trying to give you all the answers, even if it's a little longer. First of all, it is an honor for me to have a regular debate with Mr. Group leader on various types of and subject-matter laws, and I would not take the liberty of proposing to Mr. Group leader on the internal functioning of the LMP fraction which law should be presented. I would consider it an honour that, if Mr President were to honour us, our internal division of tasks, and who precisely does what, he would leave it to us. I am at your disposal in connection with the debate of any kind of law, and I believe that this is fully in line with both the laws in force, the house rules and any other principle-moral considerations. My responsibilities include all the questions you can ask and ask here in Parliament. I would also like to point out that, although you do not need my protection, Secretary of State Mosóczi is carrying out his duties. In the context of an earlier bill, I mentioned that there is still a high-level meeting on Hungarian-Romanian infrastructure investments, also at the level of foreign ministers, which includes Secretary of State Mosóczi. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] So I believe that it is better for the country and for all of us that the Secretary of State represents the interests of Hungary there, and I have the honour of responding to your kinder sentences over and over again. What I would like to say is that you have indicated that we are causing more damage to the railway than anyone has done before 2010. Honourable Congressman, Such nonsense and exaggeration or complete misunderstanding I have heard here in Parliament a long time ago. You either don't know the facts, or you want to deliberately distort them, and you want to make your left-wing fellow warriors look better, with whom you fight for power. So, Congressman, let's not mess with each other. So you think they're better transport politicians and you think they're better, you want to help those who made 300 billion dollars in debt to the MÁV who closed the sidelines. We didn't lock one wing, we didn't lock one wing. We have not closed one, Your Honour... [[Tibor Nunkovich intervenes. Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: Train replacement bus...]] We didn't close one sideline. The last time was by-line closure in 2009, honourable Member. Let's look at the facts. The MÁV has never had as little debt as it is now, we had to pay it. They hit the MÁV, privatized the MÁV, took it home. Honourable Congressman, And you want to bring back this transport policy, which is why you work personally. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding. The president's ringing the bell.]] And you are working, honourable Member, to make sure that all the improvements that we are making in rail transport are impossible. Honourable Congressman, I simply can't understand it, I told you again, but for about a century now, I will not repeat again what the five aspects are, which is why the completion of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is absolutely necessary. [[Balázs Ander: Lőrinc Mészáros?]] Then I'll tell you because it looks like there's a demand here. So this is an obligation for the European Union to create a rail transport enabling rapid rail transport and transport here, because it is part of the TEN-T corridor network. Has it ever been a serious consideration for you that if the Union wants something, then suddenly it is not? It is possible to reach the people of Serbia sooner, to connect Budapest to Belgrade, but this is an important aspect. More importantly, our Hungarian brothers in Vojvodina can be approached more quickly, and they too will come closer to us, honourable Member. I have also said that this is particularly good for transport by road or by plane, in Hungarian, it is also good for the climate, honourable Member. And yet you, not to mention the many investments that the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line leads to, by making Hungary a logistics centre, all the jobs, many economic opportunities, will also result in this investment again and again. It's outrageous! I think that this is outrageous, and especially by denying that while left-wing governments have indebted the railway, shut down the railway, privatized the railway, we are making unprecedented rail improvements. Only by the end of the year is 700 billion HUF 700 billion! The Hungarian railway will become more competitive through the transfer of investment. The Budapest suburban line sections are renewed for more than 100 kilometers. Over HUF 2000 billion will be spent on rail investments in the next EU cycle. Plans on this are moving awfully fast. We could already begin a significant part of the construction, by the way. There are hundreds of billions of forints worth in various parts of the country related to electrification, keeping the timetable more accurate, faster rail transport, and I could name this for a long time. If you ever need this, I will, of course, present this as well. We have already told you several times before, you should know these data and numbers, but you are interested in creating political hysteria and denying our common achievements, because this is not just the result of the government, this is the result of Hungarian people: railway wagons, locomotives and new engine trains are coming. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] There have never been such improvements in community transport. [[14.30]] Mr. Congressman, Mr. Group leader, also with regard to the development of the section between the M6 Bóly-Ivánarda, I am glad that you withdrew your claim that a cut was not made at the time. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] He said that a cut was not done, and I noted in this regard that you live in Pécs, by the way, and I did not doubt that, it would be foolish to question that, I just said to open your eyes and look around Baranya, where you live, he says, then look around, see what happens there. 'Cause then you wouldn't say there wasn't a hoof cut. I was standing in the mud, by the way, where we held the press conference with Mr Harghitai, who has achieved this development, and who is doing a lot for the development of the region, and who is not saying wrong things, but doing real work. By the way, Mr Harghitai and I have shown that there has already been far more than one cutting, otherwise the work is taking place. Honourable Member, go that way and look at it, and then I will welcome an even stronger apology or clarification. With regard to the dates, it is clear and clear: the aim of this motorway section is to reach the national border. It makes sense to complete such a motorway section when you have reception skills on the other side. Croats will be able to complete the freeway by now, by the way. We are now at the mercy of the other side, the other side, and it is therefore appropriate to make this investment. So, honourable Member, there is a reason for everything, and we have said this several times, and I have indicated this to you myself. You also know exactly, Mr honourable Member, Mr Group Leader, that if any government, it is precisely the national civilian government that is working to strengthen Hungary in the countryside. No government has ever worked for the Hungarian countryside as much as the civil national government has. You live your daily life in a political alliance that is against the Hungarian countryside, which has done more harm to the Hungarian countryside than anyone here in the previous decades. Honourable Congressman, You know very well that it was the national civilian government that restored the debt of HUF 1300 billion to the municipalities, stabilized the municipal budget, and never provided the municipalities with so much development resources from domestic money and EU funds. This much road development has never been achieved, and the development of so many local government services has never been achieved, and you know it very well. If you go into a small village, a small village, you can see it. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] I myself, honourable Member, walk a lot in different parts of the country, that the municipalities, small settlements, are building and beautiful, and that more and more things can be renewed, including with the help of the Hungarian village programme. Look around, and you can see that this is a necessary and important development. I have already told you today that in the framework of the Hungarian village programme only 50 billion for road renovations in 19 and 72 billion for 20, and 90 billion forints in 21 will be refurbished and improved. It's never been like this. You've never been, Your Honour. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, if you want someone to account for why you left the small settlements and why the roads are in such a state as I would like them to be in better shape, indeed, that is why we are spending an unforgiving amount of resources on them, ask those left-wing Members on whose back you want to cling to the Parliament. Honourable Member, with whom you are pursuing a common policy, ask them, and we hope that they are now at the level of honesty to answer honestly why they have never given these settlements a single forint or any kind of opportunity for real development. We have already discussed BUBE today, honourable Member. I think we've discussed all the arguments. I was trying to follow what else you brought up. Confirming domestic bus production: we are constantly dealing with this, and it is welcome that there are more and more bus companies in Hungary that have significant added value in the production of buses and the development of buses. I trust that as many domestic buses as possible will serve to further increase the quality of Hungarian public transport. Or perhaps the question of the M60 has been raised, where the design phase is taking place, and then the construction will begin. I am also happy to report that we are also planning the connection of Villány to the expressway network, where we are already in the planning phase. So you can see very clearly that in every case, whether concrete or with a major social impact, we are doing everything we can to ensure that important public investments are made that can significantly improve the quality of life in Hungary. With all due respect, I have been able to give an exhaustive answer to all the substantive questions and questions, to resolve any questions that have been raised in the honourable speakers, and subsequently I have been able to provide answers to questions that are closely related to the law, or to questions without a broader or completely context, that will be sufficient to vote in favour of the bill before Parliament, thereby helping all the improvements we have talked about to be implemented in the best and most useful way possible in the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-28-51	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, I ask for your patience, while Secretary of State Tamás Schanda and Mr Attila Steiner switch seats so that the next item on the agenda can be presented without delay. I look down, I see Mr. Secretary has put the mic on, so let's get started. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws in the context of the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources until closure. The government referral is T/15998. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Steiner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda, with a timeframe of 30 minutes. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-04-28-52	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In December 2018, the revised Renewable Energy Directive, which aims to make the European Union a global leader in renewable energy sources, entered into force as part of the package "Clean Energy for All Europeans" and, in a broader sense, helps the European Union to comply with its emission reduction commitment under the Paris Agreement. By 2030, the new Directive sets a new binding renewable energy target for the European Union, according to which at least 32 percent of final energy consumption should be derived from renewable energy and at least 14 percent of renewable energy in the transport sector. [[14.40]] Member States, including Hungary, have until 30 June 2021 to comply with this Directive. The aim of the bill before you is to comply with the energy strategy criteria in the course of the transposition of the directive, and the legislative harmonisation process has also given us the opportunity to fine-tune the provisions covered by the law. One of the new features of the bill is, among other things, the inclusion of the definition of new producers in the electricity system and renewable energy communities. I think this is a very important and forward-looking initiative. Our aim is to create an energy sector that is capable of ensuring a high level of security of supply in a consumer- and climate-friendly way and is able to use innovative solutions on an ongoing basis, i.e. focussing on renewable, decentralised electricity production and supply. This is linked to Community energy initiatives, which focus on providing affordable energy from a specific renewable energy source to their members or stakeholders rather than profit. These communities promote the spread of new technologies and consumption patterns and play a very important role in security of supply aspects. The proposal also amends the existing rules on the guarantee of origin, as it is important for more and more companies in Hungary to ensure their operation with green electricity, as far as possible, in order to combat climate change, in order to reduce their ecological footprint and their emissions. The aim of the bill is also to ensure the monitoring of sustainability criteria and the transparency and monitoring of biofuels and their raw materials. Furthermore, the amendment requires that 50 percent of the annual energy renovations to the buildings of the central government are not achieved at the minimum level for major renovations, but at the level of nearly zero energy demand for new buildings and a high share of renewable energy will be required, which represents a significant step forward in the annual energy use of central government buildings. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, One year ago, with the adoption of the climate and nature conservation action plan, the civil national government took concrete steps to make our country a clean and viable country and to increase renewable energy use is also an important point in the climate and nature conservation action plan. By 2030, we have set ourselves the goal of ensuring that 90 percent of domestic electricity production takes place in a carbon-free manner, and by 2030 there will be 6 thousand megawatts of solar power capacity available in Hungary. In addition to further reducing the emission levels, priority is given to reinforcing the coordination of energy security, climate protection and economic development objectives, as well as the protection of the created environment, which is supported by concrete measures included in the Action Plan, with which the government is moving forward. Despite the outbreak of the coronal virus, we will continue to do so. In the light of all this, I ask you to support the bill before you in order to achieve the stated objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-28-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Zsófia Koncz. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-28-54	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As you've heard in the Secretary of State Expo, the T/1599 in front of you. The primary objective of the bill is to promote the use of energy from renewable sources (2018.2011). Directive, i.e. the transposition of RED II into the domestic legal order, which forms part of the package of clean energy in the European Union. I believe that the proposal is of particular importance in achieving the climate policy objectives. The most important element of the bill is to set as a target the share of energy produced from renewable energy sources within the EU's total energy consumption by 2030 and to enable the 2030 targets of the national energy strategy to be achieved. Dear Parliament, We have an undisputed task: to leave a viable planet, a clean earth, water and air for generations to come. However, we must continue to do so step by step to create a safer, cleaner and healthier environment. We have been on this path, and we will continue to do so in the future. In fact, the proposal before us is another action to achieve full climate neutrality by 2050. It is not just a commitment, it is also a firm action. It is irrefutable that Hungary has already achieved significant emissions reductions of 33 percent compared to 1990. But we are also at the forefront of the EU as our country was one of the first EU Member States to set a realistic, ambitious, 40 percent emission reduction target by 2030. This can be said by very few Member States outside Hungary. On 30 November 2016, the European Commission presented a package of measures "Clean Energy for All Europeans" aimed at ensuring the European Union's competitiveness in a changed global energy market as a result of the transition to clean energy. In the Commission's view, the EU must take a leading role in the transition to clean energy sources and not just adapt to that. To this end, the EU has undertaken to reduce CO2 emissions by 40% by 2030 in order to enable all European citizens to benefit from job creation and growth. The intention is clear, but it is absolutely necessary to bear a common burden, because the target will only be achieved if the EU takes action together in the fight against climate change. We therefore need concrete decisions and actions that can be achieved both at home and at EU level. This proposal amends, inter alia, the 2015 LVII on energy efficiency. Law. In this context, we would like to draw attention to a number of our excellent results. The first is that the Hungarian energy strategy focuses on the Hungarian consumer, as opposed to the strategy of other EU Member States. Secondly, the aim is to ensure cheap and clean energy supply for Hungarian families, because that is what the Hungarian government believed. However, all of this can be achieved only by deliberate but decisive decisions. This is why it forms the basis for the energy strategy, so that domestic electricity production is 90% carbon-free by 2030. This is confirmed by the numerous government support and measures that have been implemented in recent years. An excellent example is the aid for the production of electricity from renewable sources. The development of the domestic renewable energy sector will allow investments to be implemented, cost-effectively, and further increase in green solar power capacity, with a total of up to 343 gigawatts of electricity produced annually from renewable sources. But not only in the case of business organisations and municipalities, but also in my constituency, more and more households can receive non-refundable support thanks to favourable conditions. I consider the protection of the natural environment of the created world to be our primary obligation to preserve our built heritage. The last year has shown a number of results. In the framework of the climate and nature conservation action plan, among other things, the elimination of illegal landfills and the purification of rivers and one of the most important programmes, wooding, aimed at increasing the share of forested areas in the country from the current 24 percent to 27 percent. In Tokaj, for example, tree planting started in November last year, which clearly contributes to improving air quality and living conditions and to the expansion of green areas. [[14.50]] A common effort is needed to achieve the objectives set, which we can do not only at global level, but also at local level. In my constituency, we have placed particular emphasis on environmental protection in recent years. For this reason, we have recently organised a collection of waste by youth and civil society organisations on the Bodrog coast, where we have collected dozens of bags of garbage, and in the future we are planning a number of other programmes, including Hernád. In my opinion, these events not only draw attention to environmental awareness, but also to excellent leisure activities. In order to achieve the objective of sustainable development, I believe that there is a need for awareness-raising activities, the first stage of which could be ecotourism. In this context, for example, I consider it important to develop the wild water experience of Hernád. Bearing in mind the Sustainable Development Directive, which has already been put forward, we have set a target of tourism which, due to its volume, does not overwhelm the environment but, due to its quality, plays a proper role in the economy. After all, I would like to report on a great initiative that will begin in September. With the principle of environmental protection in mind, Zemplén's re-use centre will be set up in Szerencs, where the public will have the opportunity to place the items, devices and equipment that have been used, which have become redundant, but are still suitable for use, in order to allow such objects to be used by others as far as possible. After all, the best solution for selective waste collection and recycling is not to create so much waste. We are fighting, whether it is our narrower Patriots or our wider environment, to protect the living conditions of generations after us by using our natural resources carefully. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-28-55	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Tibor Nunkovics. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Looking forward, I can now say that Jobbik will support this proposal, because it is indeed the ratification of European Union regulations that are necessary, and I believe that they should have been introduced much sooner. I'm glad the energy communities have finally come up on the pro-government side. However, let me also say my criticisms about this, as well as about renewable energies, about the government's position over the last 11 years, because until the end of 2019, until the beginning of 2020 when climate change was mentioned as an expression, it was more of a laughing stock on the pro-government side. Several of their leading politicians spoke on the subject, and I don't know if they called it a communist or a Bolshevik trick, I can't exactly quote it. In comparison, however, there was a big turn of events before the outbreak. Well, obviously, they have sensed that the growing interest of society in this topic is becoming more and more responsible in terms of sustainable development and climate protection. You're on the subject, too. There is nothing wrong with that; I am glad that you have joined, but I do not understand why, in recent years, opposition proposals have had to be voted off, which are now being brought in as if they were actually invented by you, but have not been so, and have been feasible for years. There are also points in the climate protection action plan, and obviously, all of it was actually eligible before Parliament, but only in the relevant committees were these proposals bled out. By the way, I am pleased with the wooding, and it seems to me that this government plan seems to be coming true and that it can really deliver results in this, which is to be praised in any way. However, less so is the fact that there are renewable energy sources that have been lagging behind not only in recent years but, unfortunately, in the last decade. For example, biomass or geothermal energy, which is still not available to the population, is simply because it is too expensive to build a new house. Unfortunately, there is very little or no state aid for this. And in relation to wind power, there is a legal restriction, a legal restriction of 12 kilometres, which has been making it difficult for many years, rather than making it difficult, but actually makes it impossible to build new wind power plants in Hungary. I accept that it is simply not economically worth installing wind power plants on 85 percent of Hungary's territory, but on the remaining 15 percent of Hungary, see Kisalföld, or see certain windy sections of our large rivers, it would be worth using these technologies. Even because of the economy of small settlements, it would bring a positive change in their lives. In the last decade, there have been technical breakthroughs in this area that have turned the economic issue into a positive one. So it would be good if, next time, such a proposal would come before the committee responsible, either to the pro-government or not to give from the opposition side, then it would be good to have this amendment finally passed, and this limit of 12 kilometers would be removed. While we are talking about sustainable development, it should always be mentioned in the context of climate change, the Waste Management Act has recently changed, and I have to say really only in a few sentences, because it is not necessarily related to this right now, but it should be mentioned that this is likely to cause chaos in an area where we are still far behind Western Europe, in which serious changes and changes in perception will be required. The only renewable energy in Hungary that has perhaps started to develop in recent years and I am glad that you have finally seen this is solar energy. Obviously in Hungary, mainly due to climate change, the number of sunny hours increases year after year. Nice and slow, but unfortunately, it's growing. Obviously not everyone in agriculture is happy about this, for for example, because there are fruits and vegetables that, unfortunately, will disappear from Hungary in the coming years, see for example the Raspberry. But from the point of view of solar energy, this is a positive change that the country must make use of. You've discovered that, and you've seen it. That's good. What is less good is that solar parks and related subsidies end up in the interests of, say, István Tiborcz or Adnan Polat. I would like to see the population at least in this proportion or rather in full benefit from these subsidies. After all, it is in Hungary's interest not only to be independent of national energy or to be as independent as possible on this issue, but also to be as independent and less vulnerable to supply systems as possible, so as many domestic energy producers as possible. Back to the energy community here, which is why I am glad that this is mentioned here in the bill, for example, since I am a Member, since 2019 I have repeatedly talked about the fact that in Hungary we have to take advantage of the citational gift of having many old-built condominiums, right, flat-top condominiums, which I also grew up in. These residential communities should be supported in enabling them to transform old, outdated fossil heating systems, such as solar panels, or just like László Keresztes in the city of Lóránt Pécs, for example, a mini wind farm was built on the roof of such a ten-storey housing house. But unfortunately, this technology didn't spread because the state didn't need to support them. These, however, should and should have been supported in the future. More than you think, anyway. Jobbik, as a Hungarian national party, will also be able to do so after a possible change of government, so that the Hungarian population can become more independent from energy suppliers and manage this issue independently. Thank you.
u2021-04-28-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[15.00]]
u2021-04-28-58	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The future of life on earth depends on our ability to act, said David Attenborough. I believe that there are few people in the world who have done more in order to know and love this wonderful world we live in, and if we are talking about it, we obviously have a very important role as representatives in strengthening sustainable development and related social awareness, and we can do this through international organisations, through the European Union, at Member State level, at national level and at individual level, I think. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Indeed, it is important to help society to think as consciously as possible through reducing the ecological footprint, and since this bill concerns EU and legislative harmonisation issues, as was the case with the Minister of State and my fellow Member, it is important to add a little more that the European Commission itself adopted the so-called "Clean Energy for All Europeans" package of energy markets in 2016. It's a hundreds of pages of professional material that we used to call CEP. This is the European Union's so-called fourth energy market regulation. This CEP basically had three objectives: to increase energy efficiency, to find or strengthen the role of renewable energy production and the European Union in this context, and to create a new, fairer framework for consumers. This level of the EU and as a Member State is very important to us, we also have a climate and nature conservation action plan, which has also been mentioned, and it has also been discussed in detail, both by Mr State Secretary and my colleague from the party to the government, but this complete package of amendments is also linked to the implementation of the 2030. The basic purpose of the bill itself is to implement the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, which forms part of the package of clean energy of the European Union, in a manner that is appropriate to the 2030. Secretary of State said the deadline was 30 June 2021. In connection with this, there are a number of laws that are necessary to transpose, the amendment of which relates to this, I would just like to mention these: the Act on district heating, the Law on electricity, the Law on the supply of natural gas, the Law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy for transport purposes, the Law on the protection of nature, the Forest, the Protection of Forests and Forestry, the Law on Vocational Training, the Law on the Protection of Land. I think that this amendment is a very important message, because, overall, its aim is to promote renewable energy use, highly energy efficient solutions in accordance with the directive, to promote incentives, cost-effectiveness and related measures, and, as Mr Secretary of State has started his exposé, making energy security a part of our everyday lives is an important task. And, as David Attenborough said, we all have a very important task in this matter, be responsible at the level of individual, national, EU and international organisations. Therefore, KDNP supports this legislative amendment proposal and I wish Mr State Secretary very much success in his work. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-59	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and Gentlemen, Actually, listening to you guys like that, everything's fine here. There's got to be some very talented person in the government who could at least get this government to talk about what would otherwise be the thing. I'm not going to be the strictest in this debate today, believe me, Secretary of State. Wait till you hear what László Varju or even Lord of the Crusade Group will say after me, but really, you look a little stunned at the fact that the pro-government ladies are acting as if everything is okay here, that we are talking about, by the way, we are going to collect garbage and, let's say, we are collecting things selectively. We are talking about more important things in the world, and we are very, very, very behind. We'll be talking about Paks on the next agenda, and a lot of things, but I beg you, every step you're trying to take now will be dwarfed by what you're doing to a Mátra power plant, or even a Paks, based on a decision of this type. I think it's worth taking that into account. If you are already submitting such a bill, and I would like to say, for our part we also believe that it is important, necessary, of course we are saying that we support certain elements of it, there are very nice elements in it that are important and necessary, but if such a thing is something that appears in the government, and you really believe, or you say that this is going to pervade everyday life, then I beg you, why don't we change it into small money? Why is it not, for example, that people who are trying to install solar cells are supported by support for home creation? Why isn't it? Now, of course, it's supposed to be possible, but those people don't have access to it. We know that there is an EU resolution that grants could be granted for such a solar installation. If we really believe that these things are important, these are the times when we change into change, by the way, such huge horse-zungs, to save the Earth for our grandchildren. These are important things, of course, and I'm willing to accept it, but understand that it would be very, very helpful for you to see in the small steps what you're talking about. Obviously, professionals have it, but I say to my fellow Members, it is true that the kind of system, let's say, in household solar panels, that the amount of money they produce, the amount they consume, is in some form the basis for accounting, and it was very often the case that someone in this form even received money back, because they produced more than they used themselves. You do have that system that's gonna change, don't you? It will change, and it will be a separate tariff for the electricity consumed and a separate tariff for the electricity produced. They will not figure out which will be more expensive, obviously, because it will be very difficult in this situation, but in such a situation, it will be very, very difficult to plan what it is for a simple person, once again, all we are talking about, the daily use of redeemed energy, because my fellow Member spoke correctly about wind energy, let's face it, that is why it is an unsolvable story for a household, obviously there are places where this can be done otherwise. So, an investment that costs an average person millions of forints does not in any way receive the type of financial support that will make it more accessible to him, and in some ways it will be unthinkable to see how this returns, then don't be angry with all the principles that we say, all the wonderful ideas that you make up, all the legislative harmonies in this respect will be a piece of paper, because if we can't drag them down to the ground, we can't change them into coins. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Nevertheless, what I have just said, we still believe that because it is important, we support it. All I ask is that if you are really so enthusiastic on this subject, and we are happy to listen to the enthusiastic sentences of the two women's representatives, if you are really so enthusiastic about this case, which has not been the case before, then try to take this to the level where serious decisions are made, and try to put it in the communication panels that you usually shoot, in case we actually feel in everyday life that this kind of thinking has become part of your everyday life. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-28-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, head speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-62	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I think that you will not be very surprised if, on this line of thought, as my fellow Member Molnar began, we go on this track, or I go on. And to make it clearer, I think I'm looking for other areas that I'd like to point out why we really consider what you're doing to be delayed and slow. Mr Secretary of State drew attention here to the fact that this should be adopted by 30 June 2021. I think it's taken more than two years since it basically started to get to the point where they actually start talking about it. [[15.10]] On the other hand, I see that you are keen to avoid it, and in fact, rather than the warlike attitude of the Prime Minister towards Europe, what we need now is for the thinking of humanity, the people and the great majority of the people of Europe to pass through. I am pleased that if, by the way, the leaders of the Hungarian Government consider that, in part, they are taking the time to think accordingly, and that Hungarians should not be ashamed of the delays we are in, in line with the procedures adopted in the Treaties. I am pleased that if the Democratic Coalition, as we think of ourselves as the most European party, has finally achieved results here, and in this way I could say the other slogan, that it is so green that it could be blue. But from this point of view, I see you don't understand exactly, Mr. Secretary, but it's okay. The point is, as you mentioned, green electricity appears. But what are you going to do with what's in your nuclear power plant construction program? Why do you think that you have to believe whatever advertising you're doing in this regard? While, although I didn't think I had to talk about my end of the week garbage collection and tell you about it, thanks to the congresswoman, I can do it now. In fact, there are many activists in Újpesten, for example, who think that there are many opportunities to care for the environment, and that this has also appeared on the banks of the Danube, or that there is frequent and practical practice of this behaviour and habit, and that is more and more, let's say, that we find space for ourselves, surely for reasons of parentheses. So from picking up trash, which is a community task, we're going to go all the way to the nuclear power plant, because no matter how much advertising you're doing, you're going to consider it that kind of energy. We think that this is not what we need to talk about, that you do not need to keep quiet, by the way, but that we are talking about alternative energies. If you do take the trouble to bring this up in this way, I would have liked the Secretary of State to do the same, or the Secretary of State to do the same, as the rapporteur, to provide information on preliminary impact assessments, because this may not have been done here, although he did not say so. We trust that you can talk about it, but most of all you can send it to us, so that we can use it in the detailed debate. Well, therefore, the European intention, which has essentially appeared here in this directive, has launched several legal processes, and with this, we, too, are fulfilling several things here in a way that belongs to all Europeans. It's about time, but I'm gonna question it, or I'm gonna have to question it when I see them talking about it, and then they're gonna do something different. It's in here, you may not have to avoid or miss out on what happened to the Mátra Power Plant in your case, because, let's just say, they helped the loyal ownership by buying back the ownership of this power plant. What will end and what will be brought out of it is not known precisely, for the very reasons I have mentioned that they are actually very closed to everything. Indeed, they are trying to cover it with a green glaze and claim that we have already done everything we have already done, we have heard it several times from the Prime Minister, we have complied with everything and all the quotas that are needed, we are in compliance with it, and we are even European leaders. But I will continue to say that instead of words, we must pay attention to actions, including because you encouraged us to do so. However, I hope that the electricity suppliers themselves, which they want to limit in such a way as to price, will be limited, that market distortions will be reduced in this sense, and that this will not only remain a set of wishes, but will be able to make a meaningful contribution. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I do not see it in this regulation, and help the Secretary of State in this regard, that if there is something wrong with the electricity system, I am thinking about it now, there are national crisis scenarios; there is also a regulatory requirement that this must be done, and that there is, in this respect, a starting point, a state from which we will be able to start? And then we can see what's happening. In the last round of thought, I would like to make it clear that, for our part, the future of the country and the planet must be kept in mind, and that appropriate rules must be made. I think it is welcome that you have also recognised the need to take action as a result of the phenomenon of the ecological and climate crisis. I am glad that they will do so, on a European scale, but on a European scale. I believe that, as a result of this, if concrete practice is developed, there will be a substantial change in society itself, and that more and more people will need green energy, and the conditions attached to this will be supported by the European Union, as we can see, with concrete resources in addition to the legislation. I am asking you to ensure this for Hungarian families, Hungarian businesses, and then we will be closer to truly being on a viable planet. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-28-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to make it clear at the outset that this proposal contains really important elements of harmonisation, and beyond that, measures and decisions of substance that we can support in a substantial way, so I can already say that the LMP faction will support this bill with its votes. However, this is an extremely important, comprehensive problem. Mr Tibor Nunkovics also referred to it, and this is a quite revolutionary moment, to say that it is possible to talk about it, and he also mentioned that pro-government politicians quote Attenborough, so you can see a quite amazing turn of events on your part. But this is saving, so we are glad that they no longer abuse us when we talk about climate change as the greatest challenge of our time, and that the most important task is to prepare for the effects of climate change, to prepare the settlements and to do everything we can to stop environmental destruction. This is certainly a relief that, relatively quickly, at least the existence of the problem is recognised. At the same time, I very much agree with Mr Gyula Molnár, here in Parliament for the time being, when we are talking about such issues, then, forgive the use of words, we will only get to the conclusion. So legislative harmonisation, small-scale steps in this direction, very nice comments and speeches are made. However, if you look at the real strategic directions, you can see that they are bad. [[15.20]] So, as if the government of Fidesz-KDNP and Viktor Orbán had reached some sort of communication turnaround, it would be embarrassing to face what everyone around the world sees as the biggest challenge of our time, but they do not want to act. While I am thinking of fundamental economic interests or geopolitical interests, political alliances, for example, Russia and Putin, they do not want to jeopardise even if they know precisely that this is what they should do in order not only to hear nice words from you, but also in actions and direction. I am very confident that, perhaps with my somewhat provocative words, I can call my fellow Members to debate, and not only a speaker's speech, but also during a debate, we hear from you a system of arguments as to why, for example, it is good to spend thousands of billions on expansion in Paks and force Hungary on such an energy policy, as opposed to what they are already doing in almost most countries to try to base their energy policy on renewable energy. It's a fundamental problem. You have adopted an action plan on climate protection, and you start talking about things that are positive, but at the same time it's like you're using it to legitimize the Paks expansion project that most of the country's population mistrusted, which you gave to the Russians without a proposal based on lies. They said that the Russians alone were capable of achieving this, but a significant element of the many years of delay was that the Russians simply were not fit to do this work in accordance with the domestic legislative and technical environment. Even a year and a half ago Minister Süli said at his ministerial hearing that the Russians are now familiar with the domestic technical environment. That was scary on its own. After all, I can say that you have cemented or set Hungarian energy policy in a direction that should have been turned aside, so we should get rid of this energy policy, especially the use of nuclear power. As far as your policy is concerned, as this treaty has been concluded with the Russians, it would be worth a full parliamentary debate in itself. This bill is very, very positive, as I have already said, but I would like to ask you a few questions, Mr Secretary of State. You have not long been in this very important position as Secretary of State within the government, responsible for energy policy and sustainability. With your predecessor, Mr Kaderjak State Secretary, we have had a lot of discussions. I am very confident that I may hear some kind of response from you that would suggest that some sort of change of direction is still happening. For a very long time, we have been trying to implement a proposal in the Hungarian Parliament and in every forum to have a comprehensive housing insulation programme covering the entire territory of the country. This could basically reduce household energy needs and have a huge potential for job creation in this programme. Compared to this, there are smaller programmes, but overall such a comprehensive programme, behind which there would be resources that would actually enable such a programme to be completed, there is no. They're not listening to this for some reason. As regards solar panels, Mr Nunkovich also mentioned that they basically only support greenfield investments. Here, too, the concentrations in the economic lunar yard, which are usually the beneficiaries of such investments, can be seen well. But instead of supporting greenfield investments, public institutions, condominiums should be covered with solar panels, so to speak, and the population should be put in a position to do so, as suggested by Congressman Gyula Molnár, so that the use of solar panels can actually be completed. Therefore, it is necessary to allocate substantial resources in this direction. (Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) And even such a very symbolic question has already been referred to by my fellow Member to the ban on wind power plants in Hungary. A very extreme piece of legislation has been introduced that wind power plants can be built in Hungary 12 kilometres from the edge of a populated area. This is 350 meters in Croatia, 400 meters in Germany. So, in practice, wind power plants have been banned in Hungary. Mr. Secretary, isn't it a little irrational to say, say, 12 kilometers from the border with Pécs, that you can only build a wind farm, but you can also build a nuclear cemetery, say, 100 metres away? So a nuclear cemetery, a high-activity nuclear waste storage facility, can be placed next to the largest city in Transdanubia, but no wind power plant can be installed within 12 kilometres. I think it's a little irrational, and I could even say it's a smiling policy. But no, it's sad that you're making such regulations. The use of nuclear energy is always behind the support of climate policy objectives. In this respect, even on the opposition side, there is a lively and serious debate, but perhaps less so that this particular Paks treaty has been concluded under the right conditions or not. But I think that there is also a debate between us in the assessment of nuclear power, and this is a healthy, important debate. But, Secretary of State, I would very much like to know your opinion that if we look at just one factor: if you have not been able to solve the final disposal of high-activity radioactive waste and spent fuel anywhere in the world, so neither the technology has been found yet, nor the procedures for location selection, and there is a huge problem in terms of funding, then why do you think that your responsible behaviour is to build new nuclear blocks? And I would like to ask the State Secretary's opinion on how Hungary will address this problem, so where will the high-activity waste, spent fuel and further high-activity waste generated after the demolition of nuclear power stations be placed. How do you find a solution to this? I do not want to take this speech too long, because not too long ago, a few months ago, we held an entire debate on climate policy, energy policy and sustainability. I think we know each other's views very well on this issue, but I am very curious that a new Secretary of State knows a new color, a new direction or a new sense of responsibility for the government's climate and energy policy. If these questions are answered, I think we will also see this more clearly. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-28-65	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes the last sentence to Mr Secretary of State that I would rather suggest that he should not be very colourful, because then he will not be in the government for long. If you're too colorful and too unique I know because in 2010 I experienced this, you don't need it quickly. But I'm asking you to never give up professionalism, because that's gonna take us a lifetime to settle. Energy efficiency issue. Of course, I will support this proposal, since Europe basically introduces Council and EU directives in the Hungarian legal system. However, in this case, in particular in the energy issue, I always say that I do not think that we should have any European Union directive at all in order for Hungary to take over the widest use of renewable energy sources. We are an energy-poor country, so that a self-respecting government can determine exactly what God and nature gave us for free, so that we can exploit it as efficiently and as cheaply as possible. And when I think about Austria heating up all of its garbage and we're still building trash mountains, it's possible to say that we're really behind in terms of energy efficiency. By the way, what we have seen from the government in recent times in terms of renewable energy is everything but modern and non-European. My fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, explained the abnormal rule that the construction of wind power plants was set at 12 kilometres from the settlement. Yeah, well, it could actually be a tavern in the neighborhood of the school, or a nuclear cemetery up to 300 meters from a family house, but the wind power plant is being punished in Hungary. It is also a fact, and there is no doubt that the sight of a wind farm or the protection of flying birds, animal protection is an important issue, but we all know that at today's level of technological development, anything can be done to prevent the wildlife from being endangered by renewable energy sources, wind and wind power plants. But the fact is, as much as we have, the sun, for the whole earth. It amazes me that it is not a priority that, if possible, every household should have a solar system. Of course, the smart ones immediately say that they are made of materials that need to be produced, and that the CO2 emissions required for production are not small. But hold on a second. The carbon-based energy source that we burn to heat, cook, build hot water is by magnitude greater than the production capacity required to produce solar panels, which produces CO2 emissions. And then, of course, we are also burdened with the processing and destruction of the solar panels that exit or decompose, but again by magnitude less than the damage caused by carbon-based energy sources. [[15.30]] My biggest problem is that the government's approach is only in words to promote renewable energy. As has been said, my fellow Members, there is a strategy, and there is a lot of promise in the attic, and we are putting European Union directives into the legislation right now, but the approach, the basic approach, is lacking in order for every Hungarian household and as many farming organisations as possible to base their energy consumption on renewable energy, which does not have to be homogeneous, it can be an absolute mixed, complex system, but it should be! I think that, for the future, competitiveness and competitiveness in the countries of the world will be two of the most important elements, which if people build up well and exploit well, they will really stay ahead: one is the level of education and the other is the volume of use of renewable energy sources, because these two are extremely cheap, very good break-out points, the countries can be very well independent from other countries, and, if you like it or not, these two factors can be used to boost the current disadvantages with which Hungary is quite far behind the world's blood circulation. Of course, I support the proposal and I ask the Secretary of State to convey both professionalism and the message of the opposition to the government. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-67	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, No one came forward for a two-minute speech... but yes. I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-68	Speaking of wind power plants, I think it is worth studying the measurement of research institutes in this regard. During the lifetime of an average wind power plant, the CO2 footprint is nearly ten times that of a nuclear power plant, not to mention that wind conditions are changing due to warming in the Carpathian Basin, so this should be taken into account in particular. Thirdly, when you read a little about wind power plants and read the writings of professionals, their maintenance is extremely expensive. The regular maintenance or replacement of a wind power plant consumes a terrible amount of money, so I think that, in relation to wind energy, not to mention the problem of the noise damage caused by wind power plants, they should always be taken into account when we want to prioritise proposals on wind power plants. The criticism is that we are just talking, and we are not taking effective steps to do so. By 2018, 400 thousand households made emission reduction investments. This is a very serious matter, and it is also important for all of us, as we have said, because, at the same time, we should agree that environmental protection is a common issue and, for example, with such investments, it is possible to strengthen social awareness in terms of sustainability. Here's your heat smart! Our programme, which we are also very proud of, and in conjunction with the national air load reduction programme. These are tools to implement our climate and nature conservation action plan. And let us not always forget the criticism that because the heavy industry has ceased, it is not only because we have been able to reduce our CO2 emissions to this extent. If we look at all the Member States, we are in the ninth place, and the countries that are the biggest climate champions, such as Spain, Portugal, or let me raise Cyprus, which has increased its CO2 emissions by 57 percent, and in 2050 is fighting a great deal for climate neutrality, are behind us. These are the real results. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-28-69	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the faction, in two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-70	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you very much, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, for taking part in the debate, so you have not limited your participation to just one speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What I'm suggesting to you... is that I've read from your speech that you think about nuclear energy as green energy and that it could be the key to climate protection. We say that nuclear energy is not green, it is not cheap and it is very, very unsafe, and that if you visit Baranya County, Pécs, Kővápőszőlős region, then you can see what unrecoverable environmental destruction the former uranium mining activity has caused. So if we see this or someone sees this, they would never say nuclear power is green. But you mentioned emissions, or even the price of nuclear power, so to speak, very simplistically. When you talk about such things or anyone talking about them, you never take into account the entire life cycle, so what I mentioned here in part, the cost of decommissioning and the cost of disposal of waste. Do you know, Congresswoman, what will be the fate of these in Hungary, how much it costs, what problems there are with the choice of location, and do you know that there is no technology, there is no technology around the world for the permanent disposal of high-activity radioactive waste and spent fuel? I think that this one fact in itself underlines the irresponsibleness of building new nuclear power stations, in this direction a thousand billion-dollar commitment to the Russians, not the Russians, it doesn't matter if such a basic task is not solved. That is why we say that the government's behaviour is irresponsible and that they should see what examples, what examples there are in the world, in Europe and in many places where they have proved that it is not necessary to invest in nuclear energy in order to achieve these very important climate protection objectives, and if we look at the whole life cycle, renewables are even more competitive than nuclear energy, even in terms of prices. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-71	Thank you very much, Congressman, I'm sorry, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group.
u2021-04-28-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond quickly to the words of my fellow Member, Hajnalka Juhász, regarding wind energy and heating smartly!, which would otherwise be a very good program, and we should only put the program next to it so that people can buy the kind of energy or renewable energy that is smart enough to heat. Today, millions of people live under the minimum living standards in Hungary, and they don't heat with used clothes and wet trees because they have this hobby, but because they don't have money for anything else. It would be good if they were a little more grateful to reality, then they knew this problem, which, unfortunately, a lot of people in the countryside are struggling with. With regard to wind energy: yes, you are partly right, the only problem is that you probably didn't read any new literature on this, because in my speech to the lead speaker, there has been very serious progress in the last decade in this sector, for example, that now there is technology to process these shovels, because so far it has not been done, but in the last two or three years there has been a rather serious breakthrough, which has started overseas, and today, fortunately, has reached Europe, because there are many countries in Western Europe where this kind of energy is being used seriously, for example, the Netherlands, Belgium or Germany, France, but especially the Benelux states. So we have this technology, and it's much better to use this energy even at the price of it. Obviously, we are not saying that this should be the leading role in Hungary, because it must be solar energy, and it is a good thing that it goes in this direction, obviously I said that another issue would be that it would be good not for friends to have the support amount or the related amounts, but rather for the population, and not for industrial use, but believe me that wind energy also has a future. Thank you.
u2021-04-28-73	Thank you, Congressman. [[On the mark of Dawn Juhász:]] Congresswoman, in the next round, I can only speak to you for two minutes. Now, Honourable Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, Member of the Jobbik Group, who has asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-74	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In short, I think that, on the one hand, this is clearly limited in some respects to the fact that, as it is a climate-dependent form of energy, it is therefore not appropriate to achieve more than a certain ratio within the overall capacity from a network security point of view. Hungary has not taken advantage of this ratio, Hungary has the opportunity to participate more in the share of renewable energy, both in terms of natural features and in terms of capacity. [[15.40]] At the same time, it should be added that there are no opportunities such as those in Denmark on the coast, so in some respects there are limits, and that it is not able to replace other types of energy in this way. I don't really want to have a constant debate with Lóránt Keresztes about the Paks nuclear power plant, because I realize that my personal position on this issue is in some respects consistent with Jobbik's position so far, and yours is different. I'll also tell you what we have in common, but I'm only talking to him now because I have to tell you that what he's saying doesn't actually correspond to reality, and the use of words is misleading. What we agree on is how important it is to see clearly and clearly this treaty that we have concluded with Russia, and there is a much greater need for this than it is now. We should be able to see clearly why there is a delay in this project. I also know how careful and planning the nuclear waste cemetery requires. However, if there were already a real solution to this issue, this would very much reduce the resistance to the use of nuclear power. I'm gonna say another weird thing. Congressman said he disagreed with the Paks expansion, this is Paks II. 2,400 megawatts. They disagree with enlargement, but you consistently use the word enlargement. In a very short period of time, there will be an additional source of energy. I agree with one thing: maintaining the nuclear capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. What makes this important is the achievement of climate protection objectives. I will certainly not be a part of the new Parliament, and, where appropriate, I will not take responsibility for the fact that, where appropriate, the opposition will be placed on the government, but I wonder if, when we talk about the need to renew nuclear capacity, we should add what will take its place. In view of the fact that, on the one hand, the country currently imports around 30% of energy, it is understandable and correct, and the higher proportion can be regarded as a matter of national security. The other is that it is necessary to replace it with clean energy from a climate protection point of view. There's absolutely no need to argue about green energy. Not green energy, of course, no. But in terms of climate protection, we all want green energy to dominate, but at the moment we see that many countries see no alternative but nuclear energy. Back in the autumn of 2014, four U.S. scientists, professors of environmental protection, published a statement, saying that nuclear energy was a planetary rescue, and they were completely outraged and said that this was not the ultimate solution, waiting for other solutions to be found to make fusion energy a reality, but, as they said, this is what is needed at the moment. This energy is pure energy because its total life cycle emissions are greater than those of solar power plants and less than those of wind power plants. It's a matter of fact. When I said this here, my fellow Member said that I must have read nuclear lobbies, told me which environmental company to look at. So I have to add why it is different in Austria. Well, of course, he's got the power capacity to cover 60 percent of that. Let's see how France is doing. 48 percent of production is now being doubled by nuclear energy, by the Czech Republic, Sweden, Finland, as environmentally-friendly countries, by building on nuclear energy, and by producing 25.8 percent of electricity in the European Union. I made a very serious statement to my fellow Member, Tibor Nunkovics, when he asked about a study on counter-nuclear energy, which can be read with very highly unrealistic data. I concluded that if someone told me realisticly, acceptablely, that in this Hungarian energy mix, I was a representative of the European Union, which was a fixed, permanent, clean energy source, and I was a representative of the European Union, when the permits were being made, the full-life profits, the profit would have been 7.5 percent, and without it I would not have been approved. The calculations that can be obtained from nuclear experts at the moment say that the current cost of 12 forints is around 18 forints, which is currently around 35 forints/kilowatto. Let me finish by referring to Germany. Germany is very proud of it and deserves recognition for building huge renewable capacities. Meanwhile, in an understandable way, because there were political elections in several provinces when the Fukushima tragedy occurred, they decided to stop and partially stop nuclear power. Germany is currently paying EUR 25 billion per year for green energy takeover. It's not for development, it's for takeover, which is obviously going to decrease, because the technology is improving. On the other hand, brown coal and black coal currently carry the prime in their annual energy production. By the way, if they need energy, they'll buy energy from France from the nuclear power plant there. Now, don't get me wrong, I ended this dialogue with each other, and I'm telling you honestly, if any expert in your group can really prove to me, under the previous conditions, that this will replace Paks I, there is no expansion, I wouldn't support, just the reservation, so I can accept that, and if that happens, I'm going to protest Paks II. Against. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-28-76	Thank you very much. I am inspired by my fellow opposition Members. One thing is that countries that have become anti-nuclear cannot, in the vast majority, take up the time-frame for CO2 emissions. See Germany, which, due to its anti-nuclear nature and the withdrawal of nuclear power plants, was unable to reduce its CO2 emissions in 2020. This is the case for several Member States. The other thing, I absolutely accept, is that wind farms can be recyclable, but you still have to buy it, and it's an extremely high cost of spending. [[Tibor Nunkovich intervenes.]] Speaking of cost-effectiveness. And the other thing is a fact, and there's nothing we can do about it. We have natural features in the Carpathian Basin. Our electricity is 50 percent Paks, and we have to import 27 percent. If, in your view, the nuclear power plant is not the solution, how do you intend to achieve this, and how do you respond to Hungarian society if we can practically solve 50 percent of it now with Paks? When I get back, I want a very good answer. How do you see countries that are anti-nuclear unable to achieve a reduction in CO2 emissions, then how will they do so in the future? Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-77	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. Come in... [[Dr. László Keresztes reporting for Lóránt.]] I can see now. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Group leader, LMP Group, in two minutes.
u2021-04-28-78	My apologies, Mr President, I do not want to waste time, but I think we have reached an extremely important point in today's debate.
u2021-04-28-79	Take it easy, Congressman. [[15.50]]
u2021-04-28-80	I'm seeing some sort of outline consensus here that I haven't seen in the last three years. So these issues must be discussed, and in exactly the same way that Congressman Balczó said: full transparency must be ensured in respect of international commitments, credit arrangements, all aspects, and an open debate must be held in Parliament on the future of Hungarian energy policy based on accurate calculations. I would like to ask my fellow Member, Hajnalka Juhász, to contribute as a pro-government representative to this, to give us the opportunity to obtain all the information and finally put the Hungarian Parliament in a position to have a meaningful debate on such issues; this would indeed be a huge step. And then we could also discuss the issues that the pro-government representatives will immediately dismiss, that, well, I don't know, we will not be able to transport nuclear waste back to Russia; and that there will be re-rocisation, no, after re-rocation, there will be re-rocation waste, which is extremely dangerous, and we will also have to bring it back to Russia, and we will also have to put it in place. So basic tasks, fundamental solutions are lacking, and there are no, honourable Member, all over the world. Congressman Balczó mentioned the Scandinavian states. Moreover, they are the closest to solving the issue of final disposal, for example, in a whole other formation, in granite, but the closest project was also cancelled by the environmental court, because they could not prove that there is a storage technology that can keep these extremely dangerous, high-activity waste away from human civilization with adequate security and adequate length of time. So these questions must finally be brought into Parliament, and I am very confident, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, that you will bring the Hungarian Parliament to it by breaking the limits of this kind of force-political logic. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] so that we can hold professional debates at this level either at committee level or here in plenary on issues that fundamentally determine the nation's future. [[Zoltán Balczó: That's right!]] I am very confident that we will make changes in this.
u2021-04-28-81	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hajnalka Juhász asked a question he expected an answer to, but we can't give it to him. So how other countries want to solve this, I think we have very little to do with it, and I think we need to ask them. I'm sure the Secretary of State can send out letters like this, and then he'll ask me this thing. Returning to wind energy a little further: I suggest you, though you have been there, but you should visit Mosonmagyaróvár specifically with this purpose, from there to Pope, and then you will see that there are places where you can build wind power plants. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-28-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[On Attila Steiner's mark:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-04-28-84	Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much for the detailed comments of the Members. I think this is a very important bill, because without it, we cannot actually achieve climate neutrality by 2050. We also have a legal obligation to do so, and the Hungarian government is also fully committed to achieving this goal. I think it is a very serious challenge to see how we are actually going to achieve this goal. Here you can say very nice targets and continue a number war, but basically it will depend on what concrete solutions we are actually making, and how we can implement a balanced approach where, of course, moving forward in the area of climate protection, we will not forget the issue of energy prices or the issue of security of supply and competitiveness. Basically, I have felt almost so privileged, here I have heard from most opposition representatives about strengthening government engagement, and many have also confirmed that there are very forward-looking initiatives in relation to concrete actions themselves. Let me point out that it is very important for us to further confirm that Hungary has issued green bonds last week, and that institutional investors, members of the financial world, believe that Hungary has a credible and appropriate programme, because it has been a seven-fold oversubscribe to the issuance of our green bonds, and that we have won the first award in the world that the Climate Bonds Initiative, a very prestigious news portal dealing with bonds, has always awarded this award to Hungary for the first time in the Sovereign Green Market Pioneer category. So I think this is a very important confirmation for us, and we want to continue on this path. Allow me to respond to the points raised by each of your representatives. Congressman Nunkovich mentioned that the government's thinking is so new. I would also like to remind Mr President here that it is worth reading the energy strategy for 2015 and also taking into account the fact that legislation and the legislative environment are constantly evolving in the European Union as well. In 2015, we signed the Paris climate agreement, a great deal has happened since then at both global and European level, and the Hungarian government has been able to refine its program in line with this trend, learning more and more detailed rules. So I think that this is not a disadvantage, but we have been constantly working on how we can achieve this goal. This is also very well demonstrated by the 32 percent reduction in CO2 emissions so far. Yes, it can be said that this was partly the collapse of the socialist industry, which is about half the reduction in emissions, but the other half has been achieved with concrete efforts, and with this result we have the ninth best result in the European Union, and even some Member States have not only reduced their emissions but have increased their emissions. Countries such as Austria, who basically have a very good foundation and have a very green image, but if you look at the facts, they have increased their CO2 emissions since 90. Thank you for your confirmation of the wooding programme, so far we have planted 1 million 100,000 trees, and we will continue with this programme. Moreover, the Member drew attention to the importance of biomass and geothermal space. We also consider these technologies to be important, and we would like to see renewable energies, such as geothermal and biomass, play an increasingly important role in the district heating sector in the future, and we will put out various support programmes for this in the future. In relation to solar energy, the spread of solar panels in the general public was a question. Here's the good news: basically, we won't have to wait for the better governments or LMP governments, because we started working on this program, and we're looking at a very wide-ranging solar panel contest we're working on. This will make solar panels available to tens of thousands of families, and we will basically use EU RRF resources to do so, and we already have solar panels for 80,000 households. So I think that the spread of solar panels has already started very nicely, and now there are 2 thousand megawatts of solar capacity in Hungary. It started very quickly, and we are making very good progress in achieving the target of 6,000 megawatts. I think that the climate and nature conservation action plan, which the government announced last year, serves precisely this purpose. There are very specific action points set out in this action plan, and I believe that we have started to implement these programmes, even though we are currently in a Covid situation, this has not hindered us from starting these programmes. I would like to draw your attention here, for example, to the government's green bus programme, and in several rural county seats the travelling public has already tried green buses. I think this is a very important initiative, because many people are averse to new technology, but this allows everyone to have a personal impression of how good this new technology is. After this pilot phase, we would like to introduce a much wider green bus program in Hungary. I think that we will need all the solutions, there is not a saving solution, because, as I said, there is a very great challenge: in order to be climate neutral by 2050, this means that we cannot emit more carbon dioxide than domestic nature can neutralize. [[16.00]] This is practical, for example, a challenge that has to be changed completely to some other technology, which is extremely widespread in Hungary. So this shows the magnitude of the scale we're talking about. (Bence of Turdai takes his place in the notary seat. ) I think that we will need all the solutions to this, and we may not even need enough, and we also need technologies that are not yet at graduation stage. Here we are currently working on a hydrogen strategy, which will be very forward-looking technology. We see great potential in achieving our 2050 climate targets by using hydrogen. But this strategy is still being developed. Congressman mentioned the question about solar panels. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that by January 2024 we have to lead to the winding-up, which is a European Union obligation for Hungary. And basically, what our plans are for this to happen sooner would be in the case of solar panels based on support. But we must do this, unfortunately, is an obligation arising from a directive in the European Union. Mr Varju is not here now, but he stressed that the reaction was delayed and slow, and it took two years to implement the legislative package. I think it is a very good criticism for us that we will be able to implement the legislative package within the deadline. I think that no other Member State has been much faster in this, and if the ladies and gentlemen of this House can support this bill, we will do so on time. Much has been said about the nuclear power plant. I think it would be very important here to decide what our real goal is, whether we want to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 or not. If so, I think that the achievement of this goal will not work without the use of nuclear power. And I am not saying this alone, and the International Energy Agency itself has the same position, and the European Commission's Directorate-General for Energy itself is saying the same thing, that if nuclear energy was completely abandoned by the continent, we would be in very, very much trouble, not only in terms of climate neutrality, but also in terms of security of supply. One of the great advantages of nuclear power is its ability to continuously produce electricity, and currently in Hungary about 40 percent of domestic production is the production of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I think that if this fell overnight, it would pose a huge security of supply risk for Hungary. I would like to draw the attention of the Member ladies and gentlemen to the fact that recently the European Commission's research centre, Joint Research Centre, has carried out a very detailed analysis of the fact that nuclear energy is considered to be sustainable technology and has concluded that there is nothing more significant in terms of human and environmental risks than renewable and non-renewable electricity generation technologies, if, of course, EU standards are respected. I think that this is a very important objective analysis that should be considered in the climate debate. With regard to the Mátra power plant, I would like to point out that without the transformation of the Mátra power plant, we can talk about the spread of renewable energies and various solutions, but the Mátra power plant itself is responsible for 14 percent of the domestic CO2 emissions. Thus, without doing something with the Mátra Power Plant, we cannot really talk about achieving climate neutrality goals. According to government intentions, we would like to transform the technology of the Mátra Power Plant into a much more environmentally friendly technology. From a supply security point of view, it is also very important that the production of the Mátra power plant is maintained, as it is the only large power plant in the north-east country that ensures security of supply; and even in Budapest, it could cause security of supply problems if the Mátra power plant ceased to function. So we plan to convert the Mátra Power Plant to much more modern gas-fired technology and add other innovative renewable technologies that can ensure diversified electricity production. I'd like to move on with the questions. Mr Kereszt also expressed his concerns about nuclear power, and here the long-term maintenance of the Paks nuclear power plant's capacity was raised. I think that this is a very, very important project in order to meet the 2050 climate protection targets. With regard to the delay, I would also like to confirm that a very thorough EU study has been carried out on the approval of the entire project and that we have complied with all EU requirements, all EU approvals have been granted. This is why the project is delayed, because the European Union has been very thoroughly examined. However, I think that this should be a sufficient assurance for you, too, that even the European Union itself, after several years of scrutiny, has said that this project is okay from the point of view of EU law. There was also a question of wind power plants, and here we heard an inspiring debate about it. With regard to wind power plants, I believe that Hungary has much worse regional characteristics compared to neighbouring countries, fortunately the choice of the Hungarian energy mix and the electricity mix is entirely national competence. I believe that, with the spread of solar panels, we will be able to ensure that, in addition to nuclear capacity, a very, very significant renewable energy capacity can be built up. As I said, there is 40 percent of current production of nuclear energy, which is maintained in the long term, but in addition to achieving the 90 per cent target by 2030, there is still a 50 per cent deficit that we would like to fill by spreading renewable energies. I think that the two technologies will be very good together, both of them will be needed. And the two have very different characteristics from a security of supply point of view, so I think the two will be able to complement each other very nicely. With regard to long-term nuclear waste storage: yes, this is an international challenge. Here, however, there are several projects that Mr President has mentioned, for example in Finland, which have reached an advanced stage. We are dealing with this issue in the national plan in Hungary, and the final decision on where and what parameters to start this work is not yet reached. I believe that the aspect of nuclear safety is above all here, and we will basically prefer a solution where it is completely excluded that nuclear risk exists. On the subject of further comments, I would like to deny that we are only considering greenfield investments in relation to solar energy. Here, for example, we consider it very important to protect agricultural land, and we would like to ensure in the future that we do not take the land away from valuable land. And, as stated in our present proposal, we would also like to install significant solar panels on public institutions, and, as I have already said, we will also develop a broad programme for the population. I think that I have tried to answer all the questions and thank you very much for your detailed comments on behalf of the ladies and gentlemen of the House. [[Applause for the pro-government, sporadic applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-04-28-85	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[16.10]] Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws on energy and public services will follow until closure. The government referral is T/15999. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Steiner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-28-86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The draft law before you proposes to amend several laws and allow me to discuss them in more detail. The purpose of the amendment to the Mining Act is to preserve the outstanding value represented at national level by deep drilling for non-use mining purposes and to avoid unreasonable and unnecessary well settlements. The government's objective is to maintain deep drillings for mining purposes without landscaping in its original state with adequate technical safety status, as this is the only way to ensure that these wells can be used for mining or other alternative purposes in the future. This will, on the one hand, allow the current non-rational hydrocarbon extraction to resume at any time, if necessary, for the sake of the country's security of supply. On the other hand, it will also ensure that mining deep drilling can be used for carbon-neutral economy in 2050, for the purpose of carbon storage, extraction of water or for the purpose of obtaining geothermal energy or otherwise. The further purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the Mining Inspectorate has recorded data on all deep drillings for non-use mining purposes and, on this basis, in the future, the mining contractor, owners or trustee will have to carry out a risk assessment classification of the technical safety status of deep drilling every three years. For those with a high or very high risk identified by the risk assessment, the Mining Inspectorate shall impose an obligation on landscaping and the preparation of the relevant timetable. The owner will also be obliged to maintain deep drillings for mining purposes owned by the owner, in order to benefit from the same or other uses later. The exception will be drillings, deep drillings for which the Mining Inspectorate orders landscaping for serious technical safety reasons, and cases where landscaping is justified in order to achieve investments of major importance for the national economy. In this case, the mining contractor or owner may, in addition to prior information from the mining authority, carry out the landscaping, the costs of which will be borne by the investor. In view of the past experience in the application of the law, the amendment of the Mining Act clarifies the scope of the transfer of mining rights requiring official consent, as well as the tolerance of the owner of the property, as well as the concept of mining business operator and the value of the supervisory fee in the case of natural gas. Following the tightening of the district heating law, in the event of the natural gas dealer's inability, the district heating producer will have 7 days to find a new trader and will be entitled to supply the users with natural gas purchased from the natural gas supply. More stringent regulation will help to prevent abusive situations and ensure that district heating is maintained, reliable and affordable for the general public. The purpose of other amendments to the Act is to incorporate practical experience into the process of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, partly creating parallel with electricity and gas regulation. A third and fourth law, which we are amending, is the law on electricity and gas supply, which, on the basis of customer demands and experience gained during the epidemic situation, significantly expands the possibility of electronic administration, thereby reducing the duration of procedures and making it more flexible to serve consumer needs. The parallel amendment of the Electricity and Gas Supply Act clarifies the definition of the transmission system operator and the information system and services of the natural gas distribution system, and also aims at ensuring the necessary IT services and their procurement in a cost-effective manner while respecting EU unbundling rules. The proposal also terminates the legal institution for taking note of acquisitions by maintaining the acknowledgement only in respect of public limited liability companies. This is intended to facilitate the conduct of civil law transactions and to reduce the administrative burden on the Office while maintaining official oversight of changes affecting security of supply. Furthermore, the amendment to the Electricity Act also affects the rules on the safety zone of free pipelines. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the rules in force are enforceable by laying down detailed rules. We believe that the amendment has a significant added value in society, as this will reduce the number of malfunctions and the amount of the relief costs they cause. As a result of the lack of service and the reduction of the level of customer disruption, the overall safety of the service will be noticeably improved. The framework for data exchange cooperation between actors in the natural gas sector in the model required by EU legislation is also affected by the separation of the Hungarian gas system's network and trade regulations and the data exchange regulations currently annexed thereto, which primarily facilitate the optimised operation of the natural gas system and the smooth service of the consumer. The amendment of the law on public utility lines, the tax on public utility lines contains basically technical clarifications, and the amendment of the Act on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office proposes to supplement cases where the Office is entitled to impose a fine without prior notice, in the light of the provisions of the recently entered into force sanction law. The following topic is related to church communities and religious communities within the legislative amendment, because the religious communities in Hungary are a major factor in society's community creation. That is why our Fundamental Law is Article VII. It also states that the State and religious communities may cooperate to achieve Community objectives. The purpose of the draft law is to ensure that natural persons living in religious communities' property, employed by the church, are entitled to the retail classification of consumers in the case of water utilities and electricity and natural gas, and are thus entitled to a reduced public utility fee, in particular that natural persons employed by the church use these services in the same way as the general public. The aim of the amendment to the Water Utilities Act is therefore to exempt property owned by religious communities from the obligation to pay the water utility development contribution, and to ensure that the rules applicable to natural persons using property owned by a religious community in a way of living apply to real estate users of natural persons, in particular as regards the obligation to pay reduced public service charges for the management of waste by natural persons. [[16.20]] In addition to the above, the amendment of the Water Utilities Act clarifies the additions to the Office's duties of consumer protection and another reason for the amendment of the Water Utility Act is Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, for which it should also be possible for waste water treatment operations and municipal waste water recovery operations to take place on the same physical site, and it should be possible for the sewage treatment plant and the water recovery facility to be operated by the same operator. The Waste Act makes technical changes from a waste management point of view, in addition to laying down rules on the payment of public service fees for waste management in respect of churches. Here the aim was essentially to promote norm and application of the law. Allow me to turn to two laws in the end. The first is to amend the Communications Act. The proposal is based on the experience gained by investors and authorities in the implementation of the super-fast internet project, with the aim of further simplifying the use of existing physical infrastructures, such as electricity columns. The use of existing infrastructure is a cost-effective and faster and simpler deployment of broadband investments, and we therefore consider it important to support this. It is proposed that the investor does not need to request a separate ownership contribution from the owner of the property concerned if the networking is carried out using existing columns or tunnels, and the optical wiring thus placed does not involve any more restrictions on the property than the infrastructure already in place. Finally, with regard to the industrial security amendment, I would like to point out that, by amending the Paks II Project Act and related laws, we would introduce a double audit of businesses wishing to participate in the project. On the one hand, all suppliers are controlled by the Constitutional Protection Office and can only participate in the investment if this screening has not revealed a risk, and in this case the undertaking will be listed by the Constitutional Protection Office. On the other hand, if the supplier wishes to participate in a segment of the investment which also requires the knowledge of classified information, the undertaking must obtain a so-called site safety certificate or a simplified site safety certificate under the Act on the Protection of Classified Data from the National Safety Authority and monitor its activities regularly by that authority. Thank you very much for your attention. In view of all this, I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-28-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill amending certain laws on energy and public services on the table in this House requires a number of amendments on different subjects in view of the experience of the law enforcement authorities over the past period, the changes and measures taken in the energy sector. The primary objective of the amendment to the Mining Act is to preserve the outstanding values represented at national level by deep drilling for non-use mining purposes. The amendment of the law on electricity and gas supply partly serves the creation of good public service practices and legal bases in the event of an epidemic, by extending the possibility of electronic administration. In the expoze, Mr Secretary of State spoke very in detail about almost all the subjects, and I am trying to highlight some of the important elements of these in my comment. Dear House, The subject of an amendment to the Mining Act is the landscaping of off-utilisation hydrocarbon deep drillings for mining purposes. As regards the preservation of the outstanding values represented by non-use deep drillings at the national economy level, it is important that deep drillings for mining purposes with adequate technical and safety status are preserved without landscaping and in its original state, since landscape planning in many cases renders the deep drillings concerned irreversibly useless or renders their subsequent exploitation impossible in some form. Avoiding aimless and unnecessary wellings will allow, on the one hand, non-rational hydrocarbon extraction in the current economic environment and at technological development level to improve the country's security of supply and to resume production at any time with known or unknown technologies. A minor amendment to the Electricity Act 2007 would serve to correct, supplement and clarify these provisions in force on the basis of official experience gained in the practical operation of the electricity market. The aim of the regulation is also to ensure the ownership of the ITO model-based transmission system operator's IT system and the necessary IT services and their procurement in a cost-effective manner, while respecting the separation rules, and to organise all this within the vertically integrated group. In implementing the rules for the exchange of data introduced by the 2008 Gas Supply Act, it is also necessary to separate the network code and the data exchange code currently annexed to it. The introduction of new definitions of information technology is necessary to clarify the separation rules and also for the transport system. Clarification of the legislation on limited natural gas dealers and foreign traders is also a very important part of this amendment proposal. Providing opportunities for electronic contracting, stressing that this is already essential in today's world, as in the communications sector, requires an appropriate identification procedure. Users who do not yet have user status may use the possibility of electronic contact, the availability of information material may only be done by electronic means available in the customer service office. The gas price is currently the most important factor in energy supply. The country's gas supply is therefore a critical issue in all aspects. In recent years, the government has made the investments, concluded the necessary agreements, which allow us to say today that Hungary's gas supply is secure in the long term, and our exposure has decreased compared to the state in the previous decades. Connections with the neighbours have been built, Hungary now has six neighbouring countries with gas pipeline connections, which is definitely a security, and I think it is a big step forward. A fair, trust-based relationship has been established with Eastern and Western companies, and cooperation will continue to be maintained in the future, as it is in the interest of the two countries to bring gas to the country from as many sources and routes as possible, and all these improvements could be made in the government cycles of the right, while keeping the results of the reduction. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Water Services Act is outstanding among the amendments to the public service laws. Here, Mr Secretary of State has already explained in detail the changes to the churches, and I would not comment on them now. I would add that the amendment also aims at clarifying and supplementing the rules of the complaint procedure in the framework of the Agency's consumer protection tasks. In the water utility sector, a provision already in force in the natural gas and electricity industry is introduced that users can only initiate a complaint procedure at the office if they have already been certified to the service provider in order to settle their case. [[16.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, I believe that the bill before us contains provisions to support the amendment of laws on energy and public services, which is why I ask my fellow Members to support it after discussing the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-28-89	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-90	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Allow me to start briefly with a seemingly principled introduction, by what the assessment of such a salad law means for an opposition representative when it amends 14 partially-related laws in the submission, paragraph 85. Obviously, there must be a single final opinion here in the final vote. Why do I say that to an opposition representative? Because the government side is currently a one-listed government of a party association, so it is not a coalition government, and this means that I am sorry for the word, that it is always what the government is doing, so the vote is very guaranteed. This is not necessary for a real coalition government. Obviously, I don't want to hurt the KDNP in any way, but I'm just indicating the fact that, obviously, Members are on an election list, and they're all behind the government. I was the opposition representative of the coalition government led by Fidesz between 98-2002, where in many cases coalition members agreed in substance with a law, but in many details there were debates that changed during the vote. This is just a sign of why I say that, in this case, this difficulty appears in Article 85 of the Law 14 of such a salad law to opposition representatives, who have their own ideas individually, while we are also seeking to approach positions for a certain degree of co-operation in the future. An example of this was the previous debate on the agenda, where we have been partly closer to each other on certain different issues. I was prepared to write a four-page text, but I must admit, it was a little behind it, Mr. Teacher, I prepared it! But that's pretty much what was said here in the expo, the lead speaker of Fidesz quite rightly said that he did not wish to repeat it, so he only repeated it in part, so let me get out here in just a few areas. In the Mining Act, it is a little strange, although it may be logical that there are two completely different obligations here, on the one hand, to prohibit landscape planning and, on the other hand, to impose a requirement on landscape planning or regeneration. The question I have raised is that, if I interpret the legal framework correctly, a mining contractor, after completing the mining activity, is normally obliged to organize and recultivate the landscape, and I believe that this should be carried out. At the same time, in the case of the first variant here, that for deep drilling for mining purposes, the area must be kept in its original state without landscaping, so that it can supply mineral raw materials that may be produced later, or in relation to other types of use, it is therefore obliged to maintain and maintain a maintenance obligation. So what's going on here is that if you close your operation with landscape management, it's a one-time job, so for 10 years, 20 years, how long does he have to fulfil this maintenance obligation without any income anyway? So that's the question I'm asking. On the other hand, a separate case appears here. When it comes to investments that are of major importance to the national economy, you can impose a different condition or obligation, which, of course, may be justified, but I will be honest that in the last one or two years, I have seen such abuse as this, classified as a priority for the national economy, that a small ringtone is speaking to me, and it is not clear what it will eventually be. It is an interesting question in the case of ecclesiastical-believe practitioners, a logical thing is that if the religious community owns a residential building, an apartment, and there is a private individual who did not engage in gainful activities, then he should be considered a household and pay public utility fees accordingly. This amendment is quite understandable, perhaps. They used to call it, "I don't know, there's such a thing as a service apartment, because the person in the church is being transferred, his apartment is leaving, another comes into the service apartment." This is correct and should be supported, the only question arises that if, for example, a foundation is owned by an individual who belongs to it, there is this possibility, or only in the case of ecclesiastical property. The amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications states that, in the case of the establishment of high-speed electronic communications networks, if the property already has a physical infrastructure, then, if this new condition does not constitute a further restriction on the use of the property, no specific authorisation should be required. It occurs to me that this was not an additional restriction. It's subjective because this property is going to be planted with the infrastructure we've already had. So I wonder how this does not mean to restrict the right to property or, in the case of the law, it is also possible for the owner, if he feels compelled to do so, to go to court. So the question of limiting the right to property is raised. I do not want to mention the amendment of the law on electricity, because indeed, the basis of the transformation is technological progress, perhaps a revolution, an energy revolution that has developed. This is how energy communities are created, for example; this is how a consumer is not necessarily a consumer, but also a producer, where appropriate. That is why we need smart meters, remotely callable meters, so it is fully understandable that the rules, even definitions, and categories to date should be complemented, just as the electricity business now includes the operation of electric charging equipment or electromobility service activities, so this change was obviously necessary. The new concepts in the area of gas supply data exchange, IT system, IT service are equally present, and the natural gas distributor must clearly have independent data and IT systems that are compatible with the system operator. It's another understandable thing, and it's the 21st. Follows the changes of the century. I would like to address one point in more detail, which Mr Secretary of State has said is a technical amendment, and I might actually call it a technical amendment. This is about the water utility line tax, where the modified text currently in use looks, quote:. The tax base of the water utility utility is adjusted for the length of the utility line track (paragraph 3) in metres. This came here because in the current law, which was adopted by the parliamentary majority with a great debate at the end of November, a paragraph was added, so let me not read it, which, in practice, cannot be properly explained or interpreted according to the rules of the Hungarian language. [[16.40]] Of course, I know that it can be added, we know what the legislator intended, but it is brought here because, in fact, something in a legislative text must be made clear and clear. And let me remind you of what this amendment was about, why this topic is spicy. This was the last-minute amendment of the Economic Committee, the result of which was that I am not going to say the whole process, but the consequence is an example that the tax on Metropolitan Waterworks increased from HUF 729 million to HUF 3.2 billion. So this is what, by the way, was a vote for those who were specifically asked, so this is in itself, if we consider it, going back to Parliament. I would like to add that, unfortunately, I have to say that the amendment of this regulation or the adoption of the original is not really a solution either, because it was precisely in connection with this amendment that the professional association, the Hungarian Water Utilities Association, was asked or wrote a letter to the decision-makers, and he said that in the present situation the only solution could be that the entire water utility sector would be exempted from paying the public utility tax, or that the tax to be paid could only be turned back to operating costs by the service providers in a controlled manner and used for wage increases, maintenance, renovations and replacements. So the reason I'm saying this is because, in fact, if the National Assembly didn't accept this special point, the result would be that there is a law which cannot be interpreted according to the rules of the Hungarian language. If we go back to the original then, unfortunately in this situation, this would not be a real solution for water utility providers either, but it may have been worth discussing. And for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which is clearly understandable in many ways, let me quote: . The so-called project law on investment in the maintenance of its capacity, in this there is an emphasis on contracting. According to this, contracts can only be concluded with an entity that holds a site security certificate under the Law on the Protection of Classified Data. The so-called business register will then be introduced following the adoption of the Project Act. This is a list of economic operators that meet security requirements, which is run by the Constitutional Protection Office. Economic operators already holding a site security certificate are automatically listed on the list and the participation in the investment is subject to mandatory inclusion on this list. So in me, frankly, the question has been raised that there is no question here that they want to narrow down the number of participants in the future as entrepreneurs and subcontractors. However, I tell you that this is not likely to be the case, because there is an important addition in the text who may have noticed that it is possible for economic operators without a site security certificate to apply for their registration, and in this case the Constitutional Protection Office will carry out a verification of the applicant company and of the person. Let us hope that this will be a fair and objective process, and this may not be the way to narrow down the number of people who are given the opportunity. So I was able to make these comments on this rather whimsical law, and thank you for listening.
u2021-04-28-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-92	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would rather use the summary that the changes in the energy sector make it necessary to amend the laws. We're talking about a few lawsuits. I think that this is the solution mechanism. Several of us have talked about the amendment of the Mining Act, and here it is indeed a priority to preserve the value highlighted at national level by deep drilling for non-use mining purposes, in particular with regard to the potential future production of mineral raw materials and alternative exploitation. Mr State Secretary, my fellow Members have also mentioned the amendment of the law on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. Here the amendment makes it clear that ecclesiastical persons should always be entitled to the use of public water utilities, electricity and natural gas retail consumer classification in respect of housing properties. With regard to the Water Utilities Act, I would point out that this amendment aims at clarifying and supplementing the rules of the complaint procedure under its powers in relation to the Agency's consumer protection tasks, and also includes certain amendments and additions necessary for the tasks referred to in the competences of the Member States in view of the minimum requirements for the recycling of water. I would also like to highlight the amendment of the law on the tax on public utility lines. In order to ensure a fairer distribution of the tax liability for taxable persons operating in the natural gas and electricity sector by amending the method of calculation currently used, the level of public revenue received would not change. I would also like to highlight the amendment of the Act on the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, here, in the context of the law on sanctions for administrative breaches, the application of the law of the Office has been taken into account in the proposal for an amendment to the law and it is important to speak again about the priority of the Paks II project from the point of view of national security, as the State Secretary stressed. In order to protect information relevant to nuclear safety, it is appropriate to carry out a so-called two-stage check on the national security screening of undertakings involved in the implementation of the investment. Therefore, the bill itself proposes that only undertakings included in the Paks II project in the list of procurements for defence and security purposes are allowed to participate in the Paks II project. KDNP supports the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-28-93	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Peace, calmness is this day, there are very serious and good professional debates, but I would like to consider a few items in this bill with a somewhat similar approach to what my fellow Member Balczó has done. 'Cause obviously, we can't get through these dozens of laws, so we're all gonna have to figure out what we know or what we've got extra information for, we're gonna try to put something together. If you don't mind me saying, in some cases, I'm sensing some changes that smell like lobbyism. So in some of them, I sense it's as if it's trying to create a slightly easier situation for some interest groups. Let's take a look at the Mining Act No. 93, which, in fact, in relation to landscape planning, is in effect to eliminate this type of obligation of mining contractors on 31 December 2032. I understand that. [[16.50]] After all, MOL is the largest player of this type in Hungary. Correct me when I see this wrong. So, basically, the kind of deadline that Parliament is constantly pushing and obliging it to settle these things, in fact, these landscape wounds are slowly being removed from this anyway private company, even if it is one of Hungary's most important private companies. To tell you the truth, it makes us feel a little bit like I'm trying to make their lives easier. My fellow Member Balczó mentioned the issue of these investments, which are of particular importance for the national economy. We had a debate about this today, and you weren't here. This must have happened in the time of the previous government, but your government has developed it to perfection, and it's actually nothing but a scavenger or I don't know, something that will get you out of the way, all kinds of problems and all kinds of burdens. Moreover, there may already be cases where there is nothing, but there is no reason why they should be priority investments. So, in our time, this was more about how, let's say, the subway investment area was doing its job, and it was about some of the state-priority investments, and today we are talking about, for example, that at one of the metro stations in my constituency, two large housing blocks could be a priority investment in the national economy, and, by the way, it was two levels higher. And here, in this passage, it actually takes this task off the owner or the trustee, while we think that it is only because someone who has benefited from it, someone who has dealt with it, that it is not possible to take that kind of obligation away from him just because we want to do it faster and do it. I would also like to remember very briefly, although I know that this is not what the proposal is about, but I would like to interpret it in this way, my fellow Member Balczó made a kind of interpretation of the legislative passage to churches, religious communities, or that point. I would very much like to hope that Gábor Iványi's Hungarian Evangelical Brothers' Association, if this bill is adopted, will no longer be in such an unworthy position that it is subject to the type of protection of public utility companies that is virtually unworthy of a church of this type. The third thing I would like to say is that there is also one thing that is related to the exclusion of district heating producers from the final shelter benefits of natural gas. Here you mentioned the seven days, the change of deadline. Please reassure me in some way that this is not the conclusion of a procedural debate with the legislation on a specific market participant, because there may be a misunderstanding of this type. So please assure me that this is a general rule that will be good for this market. In the amendment of the Utility Tax Act, my colleagues have noticed this, but I am here to tell you that the norm and the justification are not in line with each other. I'm gonna need you to take a look at this. In the norm, it is about electricity and gas grid operators, and later on, matters involving water utility providers. We hope this isn't about anything else. On the other hand, we think it is important, and I think it is important to say in substance here, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, that the right thing to do is to apply such a law, and to do something so comprehensive, then why not deal with the section of this, which, I know, is a little social policy and not necessarily a part of this economic policy, but very often we suggested, we also had a bill T/13146. I'm talking about the fact that it's an unworthy life when someone doesn't have access to water, gas or electricity, as the case may be. That's why you have to make packages, you have to have one of those... [[Gergely Arató: Ferenc Gyurcsány told me that already.]] What? [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] And now you like it better? (Gergely Harvesto intervenes. ) Thank you very much. But we had a suggestion, and I know that the president of DK said that sometime on 1 May, that's right. Well, I'd like to say that we had a proposal that was about one cubic meter of water per month, which means that 33 liters of 1 forint per cubic metre per day should be available to those who are socially dependent and that the electricity and gas should be accessible to a certain circle. At a time when there are billions of dollars in profits in this industry, when, by the way, the state grants billions of dollars in subsidies to certain cases, then yes, this can be measured by the fact that a few hundred thousand or maybe now a few million people who have problems with everyday water, everyday lighting, everyday heating do get access to it in some form and have access to it. In the same way, we would like this to appear social, although this is already technological, it says that those who have previously been turned off due to a fee will not be reconnected to the network, and such a solution is included. I would definitely think that those who have been turned off once have obviously had a social reason, unless someone is a norius in this area, there is a need to take into account certain social aspects, and in the case of prepaid meters, we recommend free installation, if any. Overall, I would like to say once again that we would consider it very, very important in relation to such a bill, perhaps not in this law, but also in some way in parallel to what the social dimension is. I would like to say very briefly about what you have mentioned, and very, very often, pro-government MEPs have described it as one of the greatest successes, this is the reduction of the rent. Let's take a look at this over the past few years. We can say that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office has not once proposed a reduction in retail prices since April 2014. So since April 2014, there has been no reduction in the amount of gas in any form, so to put it this way, while, if you look at the Central European Gas Exchange website, in May, there was a day when natural gas cost less than HUF 19 cubic metres, and there was no day when the gas price went over HUF 30 cubic metres. Compared to that, when you say that there is a reduction in the costs, there is actually an extra profit in this area. So it would have been possible to lower these prices at this time of year. In a time of economic crisis, I, by the way, would suggest if I were on that side, even if it were possible to do so, because it is an incredible gesture. As we also miss that you are now spending hundreds of millions on jobs in terms of job creation and job protection, at least on paper, while job protection could be achieved from a few million forints, and now you need to protect jobs rather than create huge amounts of jobs at this stage. As a last item, I would like to go back to the Paks one more time. I think we are taking this opportunity here today to have so many of us on the opposition side, to clarify our own position on this matter, and see if by the time we get to the point that there are coalition negotiations, at least we won't have to deal with Paks in any way. I share very, very much my fellow Member Balczó's position, but accept one thing: it may be an addiction if 30-40 percent of energy is obtained from the outside. We are saying that we may be able to resolve this in a different way, but today I think that the loan that Hungary has taken up, the interest rate of which is higher than the interest that we are now borrowing from the European Union. The final amount of EUR 12.5 billion, I believe, cannot be held because we are in Hungary. Many of us have been training leaders here, we know exactly what is at the end of public investment. So the EUR 12.5 billion is not even the end, and we do not know how the state will still have to cope with it. I will tell you honestly that this can trigger a wave of debt and, to add, we have talked about the Budapest-Belgrád railway many times today, and we are talking about this Chinese university now, it is an addiction to one or two ways that, I tell you frankly, I see far more dangerous than what you have said, so if we possibly get electricity from some moderate or more peaceful market, or, God, don't give it to us, we are saying that we are investing more energy in how, how these can be triggered. [[17.00]] So for our part, we believe that we should get out of this as quickly as possible and that, after a social debate, the people should decide from this point of view. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Sorry, I wasn't planning on being this long. I'm still saying that 13 laws that are being amended are 14, sorry, I've tried to make raisins in which I think we have something else to say. Make sure you think this through. We will most likely not be able to support the bill in this form. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-95	Thank you and with respect to my fellow Members. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-96	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. In view of the importance of the item on the agenda, I think that it is really worthwhile for Members to make less repetitions of their comments by paying attention to each other. Therefore, I would not really like to raise my concerns in every detail, which is about this law, but to highlight one, pointing out that my fellow Members have already analysed several areas here. I'm going to assume, Mr. Secretary, that there's a 68th on the Utilities Tax. §, it consists of a single paragraph, this amendment has been brought here by you. Under what circumstances is this happening? A few months ago on either side, not even a year ago, when you tabled an amendment to the Water Facility Act. So, actually, after a few months, there was some kind of enlightenment, and now they're back with the question of doing something here. For today's expression, I have collected quite a lot of public utility providers, quite a lot of taxes on the territory of many settlements, and partly the taxes and water prices from which the residents otherwise pay. Now, without a complete review or presentation of the details, I have to tell you that you are going to make a legislative amendment proposal consisting of a paragraph, and then the blatant injustice of paying most of this tax to former settlements with a high water charge in the countryside. It is not difficult to reach this conclusion, otherwise, after the way one such service provider operates the public works itself. I do not know that this is how you planned it, but I am quite certain that you have reached that point again I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, while practically since the design, i.e. since 2013, you have collected a tax of HUF 96.4 billion, while also because of the contradictions of the system that I have previously mentioned, let us say that you have been forced to realise that these providers must be supported and that they have been paid HUF 93 billion as a subsidy. Now, in the meantime, you have centralised it, just like in the case of the country and the various public services, and you have put the service providers themselves in a position where there is no real money to raise their wages or to maintain their network. You're essentially hijacking it with the tax. However, they can add to this, because when, during the Covid epidemic, the government remembered what ideas local governments were affected and how resources were withdrawn, and even here, despite any common sense, they continued to pay last year the public utility that did not own these operators' network, which is the tax base. So I think it's obvious that the contradiction that you're simply talking about is about collecting money, and then, as a result of the money collection, you're making people pay for it, and you're acting like, by the way, in any way, I'm not saying the word, because I'm saying the whole thing, it's a big deal that you're doing here by sending out those 10-percent bills. So, overall, I find two things extremely outrageous. One of the things I just analyzed here is how your system works. On the other hand, that you and your former associates would then bring such a bill here without any prior impact assessment, and they would again deal with an idea of this, they would react to it, and then ignore the real problems, and if I were to link it to a set of lobbying activities, what they would like to change, we would see here before us. So, Mr. Secretary of State, regarding water utilities, As a result of their only paragraph, I think it would be time for some greater enlightenment that the situation of the 40 companies that have been put in such a situation should be helped in substance. In such a situation, I can safely say that your communications, let's say, take into account, or as you do, are the ruiners of the countryside, because you have put that region, the long-distance players with a large network, in a very difficult situation. In this way, therefore, it is important that the residents of settlements that pay much more pay the utility line tax instead of those who pay less. Still, I draw attention to some figures. The use of 20 cubic meters of sewage in Battony costs 12,000 HUF, it costs 4046 HUF on Békésszentandrás, but if someone does this at Source station, it costs 155 HUF. Well, these are the differences that make me think that we should definitely change the situation, but, well, you're ignoring all of this. Yeah, I've been talking about taxes and subsidies. Finally, I would just like to point out that this sector could be provided with significant support from European sources on the basis of the available opportunities. When are you going to take it seriously that significant maintenance work has been lost here, and that is why you should do so? I understand, and I say again that I see the intention to do so in some documents, but you talk too much and do too little. [[17.10]] Instead, I see what I just said, that you are pulling away from where you should actually be helped, so it is difficult to support you in this form. However, thank you very much for your attention. And through this one aspect, because there is a great deal in your draft law to try to convince you that you are serious about helping this sector, and in this way it makes it a little more believable that any other point in this law is indeed forward-looking. That's not how I see it right now. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-04-28-97	Thank you. Our next speaker is Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-04-28-98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard very, very detailed criticisms and assessments of the bill. Mr Balczó began his speech a little modestly, self-critically, by not repeating what we had heard before. Compared to this, we have heard an extremely detailed and very precise, pinpoint assessment of this bill. Following this line, I will not repeat what Mr Balczó said, but I would like to go in the direction that we have heard from Congressman Varju. At the same time, I would like to give a little more attention to issues relating to the recultivation of the Mining Act. I would like to ask you a question about whether there is any intention of reopening the mines where appropriate, so that such a link can be found. On the issue of recultivation, I see such a problem in many places. I represent an area where there have been significant mining activities in the past, and the environmental devastating effects of this can be seen by everyone. At the same time, I see that the government is not paying enough attention to the issue of recultivation, but is trying to push it, delay it, try to pull itself out of it, and, where appropriate, when resources are put into the budget for recultivation tasks, it is not being used either. It is in Pécs one of the largest industrial landscapes in the country, the so-called Karolina detachment, which is a huge, gigantic landscape wound, and the obligations relating to its regeneration have been constantly pushed by the authorities. The deadline for 2008-2009 has now become 2032 and the State does not participate in the tasks. The private part-owner there, the power plant company, is working through some kind of cooperation, but at the same time, the state could take its part in the work, and then this environmental risk could be addressed as soon as possible. I have spoken to Mr Kaderjak about this a great deal, and I have asked him a lot of questions, and we have come to the point where, recognising the weight of the problem, he and his staff would come to Pécs and make an on-site inspection of the Karolina search. We're talking about a huge, really amazing landscape wound. Therefore, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to take up this cooperation, which has already been budding, and the Ministry of State and the Secretary of State will assess what needs to be done there, and if he takes this job, this opportunity, it would be a great relief for the entire population of Pécs, i.e. if the state actually took part in the reconstruction work there. A little back to what Congressman Varju has already said, and what Mr Balczó has also said is that an amendment to the amendment to the public utility tax is being introduced. In Hungarian: what has happened is that the majority of Fidesz-KDNP has failed to formulate a sentence that can be interpreted in accordance with the rules of Hungarian spelling, and the majority of Fidesz-KDNP has accepted a legislative change that does not really stand the basic tests. However, this is not the problem. The problem is that in the water utility sector, there is only one thing to do with utilities that should have been done years ago: abolish it. At present, there has been a situation that has not been discussed for the first time, and even with Deputy Minister Schanda, we have had a few opportunities to talk about this in writing and orally, that the water utility sector has practically come to the brink of collapse. Here we are talking about the most important public service, and basically that this most important public service, the provision of healthy drinking water, sanitation and sewage treatment, poses a specific threat to the protection of water bases in Hungary. We know that a system has been developed several years before, on the basis of which those responsible for care need to draw up a so-called rolling development plan within a 15-year perspective, setting out what development, replacement and maintenance needs are, what funding conditions are available and what additional funding would be needed. This needs to be developed and updated year after year, with a 15-year perspective. According to some estimates, the missing amount is between HUF 1500 and HUF 3000 billion. The Association of Citys with County Rights calculates this missing amount to HUF 3000 billion, the Hungarian Water Facility Association to HUF 1500 billion. This means that this is a 15-year-long gap and, in particular, an existing deficit, and it can be seen that the government should provide resources for maintenance in the water utility sector in the order of 100 billion. Compared to this, Deputy Minister Schanda is certain to know the budget level of about one and a half billion items, as reconstruction funds instead of hundreds of billions of forints, which would be needed pro rata time. Every year, the sector formulates its emergency signal in this regard, and I am also trying to keep in touch with Minister Palkovic, and it was formulated as a zeroth step to at least get air, to get these utility companies above water, that the sectoral special tax in the water utility sector, the utility tax, should be abolished immediately. But it is obviously not enough in itself, there must be substantial state aid to all water suppliers and utility companies. There are 43-44 such companies, a small part state, and a large part municipal companies. They must be given adequate support in order to remain on the surface, to operate, to perform maintenance so that complete utility systems do not fail due to the lack of maintenance. The Prime Minister has not spoken much about this issue in the last decade either, but in the summer of last year he has broken the silence with regard to this extremely important and one of the most important system problems today, and he has acknowledged the need for a thousand billion-dollar scale to ensure the most important public service, healthy drinking water supply. And then he even made a signal that, when planning EU development resources, the government would calculate so that this billion-dollar fundraising could be achieved. Compared to this, we have seen the government's draft that had to be sent to the Union by the end of April, and we do not see any sign of this sector getting this substantial help or substantial support. We are looking at next year's budget in parallel, but there is obviously no solution to this issue in an annual central budget. So we do not see in parallel how the government wants to resolve the need to ensure the maintenance of the most important public service in Hungary. Congressman Varju has already mentioned that the problems are given, for example, that professionals are leaving because of shamefully low wages and that basic conditions are lacking for maintenance. So the problem is getting bigger every year. The problem is already at a level where the proportion of water systems with an adequate rating has fallen below 20 per cent. And since you govern, I do not say, and the Deputy Minister is very sensitive to this, that this problem did not exist before, the number of failures in the water utility system has doubled since 2011 according to statistics. So the problem is getting worse and worse, and that's what the utility tax said. It's basically paralyzing companies. I would like to ask the Secretary of State when they are faced with this problem, because I have received from the Deputy Minister a lot of times that the strategy has not yet been prepared, but the strategy is being prepared, but we need to see specifically what this strategy is going to be, where they are getting this thousands of billion-dollar additional resources for the sector when they are providing substantial help to utility companies. I would also like to ask, by the way, a political background to this question, that the government has any intention of nationalising the water utility companies owned by the municipalities, where appropriate. I really hope not. By the way, we agree perfectly that this is a strategic infrastructure. Water utilities must always be national, state and municipal owned, this is clear, but we would never contribute to a process of nationalising water utility companies owned by municipalities in the maintenance of municipalities. I very much hope that Mr Secretary of State can confirm that this is not planned by the government and that instead they will provide meaningful assistance to these companies in order to operate the most important public service in Hungary, the provision of healthy drinking water and the protection of water bases in parallel. Obviously, Mr Secretary of State, if these water bases were damaged, this would be an unacceptable and irreparable situation, which is why the conditions for drainage and sewage treatment must be ensured. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[17.20]]
u2021-04-28-99	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I therefore give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing the T/15999 bill, which deals with the amendment of laws on energy, 14 laws are indeed amended by a classic salad law through 85 paragraphs and intends to make certain changes in the different segments of this energy sector. I must say that I thought exactly the same as my fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, that this proposal is very likely to have a strong lobbying interest, so it would be possible to analyse the paragraphs individually which economic sector would benefit from it; but let us not be malicious, not even because this day is going on in a relatively peaceful manner, and in many proposals, Members agree with the proposals or some of the proposals, and there is a fairly high level of professional debate or dialogue in the Chamber today, which is always a rare holiday in our genre, especially if my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc, is in the Chamber. I would therefore like not to repeat the arguments and arguments raised by my fellow opposition Members, they have been very richly and professionally founded, and I would like to address two issues which, in practice, I think, are about a proposal that cannot solve a long-term problem. On the subject of the mine, landscape planning versus continuation of mining activities. In the previous hours we were discussing the development of renewable energy sources, and from climate strategy onwards, the government has a renewable energy strategy, and we have listened to the Secretary of State very richly to the government's goals in this regard, and then the next proposal, in which we have, and I will join my fellow Member, Zoltán Balczó, is to maintain, without time limit, the mining potentials in which mining deep drilling can be used successfully in the future. It is understandable, it is important for each country to maintain its own energy source, no doubt, it means independence [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] But it is also a fact that, without a deadline, for decades or even centuries, to cement this relationship with such a proposal, I do not think we can. I think that there should be some kind of intermediate solution, and I should be honest with you, that I would rather use this kind of regulation on the basis that I would very strongly motivate the government and the owners to engage in continuous dialogue, and that, at times, I think every four years, we should assess what is going on and what is actually going on with it, I would create a stronger co-operation force, or that, after a while, we should make a final decision whether there will ever be a mine or not. Because what we all see in the country is that a lot of previous mining sites are in a very deplorable state, it is particularly polluting that they have left a lot of industrial production, they have left tools under God's skies in mining activities, they have rain, they have chemical substances from different metals, they have contaminated the land, so it has to be said that many mining activities have been abandoned in God's holy name, and then there will be something. I therefore believe that landscape planning does not exclude the possibility of potential mine opening at all. I would rather try to develop a status quo so that mining activities can be continued at some point, but all owners should be interested in landscaping. This is a very static, very black-and-white-thinking proposal, and I believe that the objective it is destined for and which the Secretary of State has spoken of will by no means serve. The other issue I wanted to discuss is the question of water, the question of water supply, the question of residential use. Here the proposal to be a consumer of the general public would introduce a rule on housing used by individuals in churches, but I am pleased that it has been brought to the House because we can talk about this in a broader spectrum. I'll tell you why. I think that it is completely unjustified, and even extremely disoriented, that every single economic company, or legal entity, without legal personality, is included in the use of water utilities, and that they receive water much more expensively than in simple residential properties. Why am I saying this is a problem? I am saying this because not only do churches have a service apartment, and not only do churches have a private individual who uses the church-owned apartment and can therefore pay the form of a household from the water utility, but there are properties in the name of many companies, in which no economic activity is carried out, they use any mass of Hungary's properties exclusively for the purpose of housing, so that they have to pay the higher fee required for organizations. And now I'm going to tell you a case that happened a month and a half ago, if I don't live it myself, then I can't imagine this situation happening. Three months ago, they read the annual consumption in my home, and the specialist came. [[Gyula Molnár intervenes.]] And he read it, they put out the bill. A month later, a gentleman comes from the waterworks and says he'd read the clock. And I tell him, "Well, sir, they were here a month ago for the annual reading, "we've already got the settlement account." He says: "He has come again because the Metropolitan Waterworks have written out all the addresses of the population starting with Dr." They have to go through it and find out that in the real estate where the name of the subscriber begins with a doctoral title, there is no economic activity going on, because it would be possible to ask him for an increased water charge. I say, sir, and the university doctor who teaches psychology at ELTE, what's he gonna say about that? And then he said that he didn't understand it very well; I understand that this was published as a task. But I'm telling you, please, it's an abnormality. What's this all about? You are either a lawyer or a private doctor in your house, you may be carrying out an economic activity within a certain area, and you assume, let's say, that a utility provider uses a quantity of water for the economic activity, which would require you to charge a water charge of as much as a meat processing plant because, you know, it would be in the same category. And I'm going to ask myself, can someone please tell me, in an economic activity, for example, who makes a technical drawing in his own home, what kind of extra water use does he have? Why would he have to pay more water fees? This whole water supply training and this kind of approach is specifically a robbery view. The gynecologist who washes his hands four times a day to treat the five patients who show up at his place as a private physician, I apologize, but in no way does it mean substantial water consumption. And, I stress, there are a lot of life situations in which certain families are named by the family company for the property they live in, there is no economic activity, there is no company even registered, only the company owns the residential property, why should it pay non-residential water? So I'm asking the government to reconsider this because it's impossible to compare a slaughterhouse, a meat factory with a private designer or a private attorney or any kind of private contractor who's either very few people visiting it, and uses this economic service at that address, or doesn't have any visitors at all, but does some kind of intellectual activity that he uses elsewhere. [[17 .30]] So, this view that we have today is unacceptable. So I strongly believe that if this church question has already been brought here, then the whole of society should benefit from the kindness that these situations of life should be dealt with in the preparation of future legislative proposals. Furthermore, I will not vote in favour of this proposal, because I think that there are traps in it, I think that it serves some lobbying interests, especially when, for example, it regulates the penalties for utility service providers and the various narrow deadlines for expected performance, with the oligarchs in the vicinity of the Prime Minister holding a very large proportion of public utility services. So I feel very strongly that a thief's market acquisition is based on this legislative package of proposals. In this way, an opposition representative cannot assist in any way. Thank you for listening.
u2021-04-28-101	Thank you. I now address Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-102	[[His mic's not working.]] Mr President, thank you for the floor. I've asked for a proper comment, but I'm preparing for a short response. On the one hand, what I mentioned confirmed by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm that, if that obligation is imposed on non-use mines, [[They put a hand mike on his desk.]] To preserve it in its original state without landscape planning, and this is an obligation for decades, who pays for it. But I was unsure... [[He's running his own mike.]] I'm gonna do another experiment with this. Now? Then let's keep this mike. [[He's pointing at the hand mike.]]
u2021-04-28-103	It's working.
u2021-04-28-104	Can I get it out as a dance singer? [[He's trying to get the microphone out of the case.]] No.
u2021-04-28-105	By the way, the clip worked normally, Congressman. [[Nacsa Lőrinc to Zoltán Balczó: Can I get a number? Defiance.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-106	Thank you. Excuse me. I may not have self-criticism in many areas, but I have an extremely bad voice. I'll try like this. Can you hear me now? [[Intercoms: Yes.]] Thank you. So Andrea Varga-Damm strengthened me in this view, but Gyula Molnár has made me insecure and it is good that there are people in the opposition who have been on the government and see that the state and the large MOL company can have special mutual interests. He suggested that, in fact, with this obligation, he would rather be given the opportunity not to implement landscaping which would require relatively high costs. Frankly, I've come up with this opportunity. But what I asked for was a return to nuclear energy. Let me tell you this: the interesting thing is that in government and opposition, in certain matters, someone clearly has a different attitude to the case. I was a Member of the European Parliament in 2010, and then the Economic Committee of the Hungarian Parliament, led by György Podolak MSZP representative and the management of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, visited Strasbourg with János Süli Technical Director, during the period when a very highly supported vote was in place for the Paks II expansion. Thus, of course, the MSZP stood for the Paks enlargement with full breast width. Edit Herczeg, MSZP MEP, was specifically and officially a lobbyist for nuclear energy. On the other hand, András Gyürk expressed his reservations: we will consider whether we want the Paks project or not. Now it seems that the situation has changed a little, and, of course, a lot of water has flowed down the Danube for the Paks nuclear power plant's cooling water. I also know that the conditions and opportunities of green energy have changed a lot both in price and in technology. But the basic fact is that Paks currently provides 40% of our total energy consumption, has not changed. I agree that we have a different view, because Congressman said that imports should be imported in a larger proportion. Jobbik is also sensitive to sovereignty in such an energy area and we consider it dangerous to increase 30% significantly, especially in such a way that we do not have the opportunity to give Paks, say, 1000 megawatts of performance in 2035. So here's the decision that we have to make whether we have Paks in 2035 as nuclear energy or not. And then we have to think that, as strongly as we can hope to increase solar energy and wind power, if it falls out, the imports will be, say, 70 percent. So that's why I'm not judging this as a realistic alternative. Otherwise, it is entirely legitimate to suggest that we be clear, let us see clearly how this contract is, let us see clearly how this loan is to be repaid when it starts. In this matter, I receive such information from the competent minister. For example, the fact that the Russian party is currently being paid in the way it was supposed to be, that the loan is not being used; it does not have to be used. If they are able to pay these billions of dollars without credit, or because the invoices come in in instalments, the possibility of paying them from another loan will remain after verification, should be discussed. What I am saying is, and this is what Mr Kereszt said, that it is precisely time for a truly constructive parliamentary debate on this issue. But the opposition can't begin. The result is that we're here, the Fidesz site isn't here, and it's over. So I propose, and I think that it would be essential that the government side initiate a parliamentary debate on something like this, that the future, opportunities and opportunity to replace nuclear energy should remain in the need to apply it, in any title where there is a debate on merit, where the competent parties, State Secretarys and ministers are willing to provide information on these issues on the way. Because right now, I feel that there is no information on this issue that has not been clarified in many ways. There's a lot of questions for Jobbik, too. I, with my colleague Lajos Kepli, presented a proposal in 2014 to have a parliamentary permanent committee, but through cycles, which examines the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, because a subcommittee is not suitable for this level of national economy. So I have the need, I want to see a lot of things clearly, but the most important question would be to see clearly, see an alternative to what is possible for Paks II. Don't build a nuclear power plant. Unfortunately, I cannot say what my fellow Member has said is that Paks II, Paks I, should not be built. Well, it's important to know that the Paks I plant operates with your 2000 megawatts after a lifetime extension. That is why I am mentioning that there should be a substantive debate, let us see the real Paks, all knowledge, fact and come up with alternatives. Thank you for listening.
u2021-04-28-107	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to reflect on the words of my fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, but I should like to say that it relates to the issue raised by my fellow Member Balczó. It has to be decided, because there is a professional debate, and one side that we represent is energy sovereignty, and anti-nuclearity is a dependence on energy imports. You have to say that. [[17.40]] What we do know now is that Paks provides 50% of our electricity production, we import 27 percent. Theoretically, if we remove the energy provided by nuclear power, we need virtually 77 percent import. And this is not just the problem, but the other problem is that most of the anti-nuclear countries are already thinking about energy imports. So how will the 27 EU Member States resolve this? Obviously, this is a different question of approach, but my fellow Member said that we will find a way to resolve it. Yes, only if we think about alternatives and see differently, we think about security of supply, energy sovereignty, then practically we also add that, although green technology is developing, we know that in the case of renewable energy, there is a gradual delivery, so that the so-called cord flow cannot be ensured by renewable energy. The cord current means that, 24 hours a day, for all seven days, the energy provided by Paks is up to 100 per cent, a renewable energy cannot provide this. So if we are going to do things differently, society must answer how we will resolve this energy import then, especially with other Member States lining up ahead of us. Exactly the other thing about nuclear energy: yes, my view is that nuclear energy is a virtually 100 percent carbon neutral issue and, by the way, the European Commission has just been told by the JRC, Joint Research Centre, in recent years [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that nuclear energy fully complies with the EU's environmental standards, so here is the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-28-109	Thank you. I also give the floor to Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-110	Thank you very much. If Mr Keresztes were here, he would say how good it is to have a debate in Parliament, and not just... I think that Mr Balczó has said our position. We in this case were there to yes, Paks is a necessary investment in the event that you... But let's go back to the previous agenda, because you said it yourself, and we also said that we need to look feverishly at the possibility of how, in what way, alternative solutions could be found, I was trying to tell you that. Here again, I would refer you back to the leader of the LMP: this is not green energy, not at all. Indeed, it is carbon neutral, but it raises many other problems, such as nuclear waste. What I have said to you, and I would now address it to you, is that I cannot decide which is the greater dependence: if we need to obtain more energy from the market by 10-15-20 percent in the transitional period, and if there are markets that may not ask for as much as the Soviet Union has asked for in the past, or what you have done with this loan, which is significantly worse with loans with conditions, such as the IMF loan, which is being criticised or in which way it is now possible to borrow from the European Union. What I'm talking about is that coup d'état agreement that we don't know the details of, I think it's gonna do a lot more damage than we think today. And we do not know that we will live to see what you have said, that those who want to buy electricity from us will stand in line in Hungary. Well, I've seen an analysis, but I really know it's not to be believed, because everyone can give analyses in their own market interest, that nobody in our neighborhood will need electricity at the exact time when this Paks II. He's on the move. We can't tell you that. I was talking about, I'm gonna say it again, and I don't want to go to the corner where they say it's an anti-nuclear lobby, that I see the financial addiction they've brought as much more addictive. Thank you very much. [[Continue in 193/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary
u2021-04-28-111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] Dear Parliament, No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On Attila Steiner's mark:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to try to respond thematically to what has been said here, and perhaps I would like to start with the last point, the role of nuclear power. Here I would like to propose a study of the German example, because Germany has announced a very large programme called Energiewende, the energy turnaround, and in 2012 it decided who would lead the nuclear power plants out of its energy mix. And how do we see that Germany has succeeded in doing so? Well, by increasing its CO2 emissions, because the situation is that it has not been able to replace system security or security of supply in any other way, except by restarting coal plants, which has led to an increase in CO2 emissions and to serious security of supply and problematic situations. The problem is that Germany has significant renewable energy capacities, but in general these capacities are not located where the large consumption centres are located. In English: you have to transport thousands of kilometres of this electricity produced by renewable technologies to the right place. However, these wires were not built in Germany either, because many citizens, when they have to dig up their own gardens, say that they do not support this program so much, so at present electricity is going from north to south in Germany, using the network of neighbouring countries, electricity flows down to Bavaria via Poland and the Czech Republic, and I don't have to say, if there's not enough electricity, because it's at night and the wind is not blowing, then the electricity produced in French nuclear power plants is also very useful, of course. Congressman Molnár raised the exposure to credit. I would like to highlight two things here. On the one hand, Hungary is already in a position to import 20-30 percent of electricity. If the Paks Nuclear Power Plant were to fall now, this 20-30 percent would go up to 60-70 percent, which would pose a very serious security of supply risk. Luxembourg may have the highest number in Europe, but we are talking about a completely different size and embedded country. In the case of the Paks loan, however, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Hungary has not yet paid any interest on the Paks loans, because it has been immediately cancelled and there is no cost of early repayment. So I think that this exposure, which the Member has been talking about, has not yet existed, and it is expected that the government will try to continue this quote-marked loan in the future in this way, as appropriate, by immediately repaying this loan. In fact, this means a safety net, if interest on the world market could be such that such a preferential loan could not be obtained, then there should be such a security solution, which, in turn, has a very long-term maturity. Much has been said on the mining issue, and I would like to remove some misunderstandings. This is not basically open mining activities, where there are huge landscape wounds, but it is specifically the deep drilling of hydrocarbon wells. This means that there is a tube hanging out of the earth, and this is about landscaping. This is not about mining in general, but about these specific cases. This proposal is very important for this reason, and I think it is a very balanced proposal, because we do not say that landscape planning is not necessary without reason, but we say that mining supervision will review every three years that there is a safety risk for a particular well: if this security risk is high, landscaping will be mandatory, and in cases where there is no security risk, this well may be kept open longer, and this procedure will be repeated every three years, so if one well would be a safety risk later, then the office will order the landscaping of these wells. Here, in connection with the previous debate, I would like to point out that many Western companies also see great potential in mining lithium in water, for example, for geothermal wells, and that lithium now has a huge demand for solar panels and batteries. I think this is a very forward-looking initiative, and if we already have such rare earths in a geothermal well, and it has value, and it seems that this industry will provide a very significant demand for such rare earths and other materials, then let us live with it and try to make value out of it as a good, careful host, and this is the way to do it. So I feel that this is a cornering, very strongly, that lobbying here is affecting this proposal. [[17.50]] No, we're talking about trying to create value from what we have, and we might have very innovative technologies, such as underground storage of carbon dioxide, in ten to twenty years' time, which makes it unjustified to drill a new well, since there is already an existing well, and we had to concrete it because there is a landscape obligation. So that is basically what this proposal is all about, and I would ask you to read it again in this respect before your final opinion is developed. With regard to the possible limitation of property law, as I recall, Mr Balczó brought this up: I would like to confirm here that there is no restriction in our intention. In particular, if there are electric columns, there is a power line, and there is also an optical cable. That is what the proposal is about in particular. I don't see why this would be an additional property restriction. With regard to the Paks II Project Act: there is no ulterior motive, we would like to bring the procedures in line in principle. There are two types of procedures here: if you want to be an entrepreneur in Paks, there is a procedure, and if you conclude an entrepreneurial contract, what your procedure is from a security point of view. We want to bring these two processes into line with each other. If a document is to be used, the criteria set out in Mavtv must, of course, be met. In the event that there are no classified documents, there should also be some type of control and control. This is what this list is for, and we would like to bring this into line with the two procedures. With regard to church rent cuts: this applies only to church law persons. Basically, there is a specific legal environment here, whereby natural persons in the employment of religious legal persons could not avail themselves of the rights that normal natural persons can have, and that would be brought into line with the rights of normal natural persons. So I don't think there's any problem aspect here that can't be accepted. [[Zoltán Balczó: Foundation.]] And that basically only applies to church law. Much has been said in connection with water supply tax and water utilities. This passage basically contains a clarification and a codification clarification, and basically we want to clarify the legislative intention, but we do not want to reopen the debate that took place last year. I think that last year's debate and last year's result have, in many cases, been very helpful to many utility companies. In fact, exactly what Mr President mentioned, for example in the case of Alföldíz, there were examples of the area of the Great Plain, where this settlement at the end of last year was a EUR 600 million relief. In fact, we have helped the rurals exactly in this proposal, not the big ones; so it is quite the opposite, as Mr President said. Regarding the example of Congresswoman Varga-Damm, I felt that I did not know why the congresswoman aimed this point at me, because she was basically arguing with the Metropolitan Waterworks. So you should go to Christmas Gregory in order to find a solution. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If you do not have a reassuring solution from there, then I suggest that you contact the Hungarian energy agency and investigate this matter there. There is one other thing I did not understand in the speech of the Member. I have discovered a contradiction in the fact that the water utilities are in the hands of oligarchs on the one hand, but on the other hand, we are destroying the water utilities. So there is quite a contradiction here in what the Congresswoman has said, but I must be honest with you, I have not been able to fully follow this. Finally, questions were raised about district heating. We have no other ulterior motive. There have been abuses, and we do not want the teleheater to be empty, and it is very large to impose extra burdens on the teleheater. In the case of natural gas, there are similar legal provisions. So, basically, we're trying to fix this situation, because there have been very extreme abuses on this issue. And basically this will not be an extra burden for district heating providers, which is not appropriate for them. I would like to speak very briefly about the reduction of the rent. I think it is very interesting to have someone remove the results of the reduction of the rent, because in particular, we managed to leave 2,000 billion forints in the family pocket. That's 170,000 forints per family. And the second cheapest electricity price in Europe is currently in Hungary. I think it is quite misleading to take the price of a gas exchange for one day and try to compare it with the cost reduction, because I could earn countless days when there were many times the daily price for reduced gas prices. And obviously there's a one-day, then point on the stock market price, but here we're talking about a long-term program. So I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament to help us in our debates with Brussels to help protect this very important programme, which has already left HUF 2000 billion in the pocket of the Hungarian population. Finally, Mr Crusades also raised the issue of the Karolina mine. There, too, Mr President, you said exactly that in 2008-2009 the authorities did not do anything. You were supposed to be recultivating by 2010, and none of that happened. But I think this government has little to do with it. At present, there is a solution that is or is being recultivated, and I think a very favourable agreement has been reached with the French company, because for four years the French company is doing the recultivation, and until then we are not spending the state money on this recultivation. So I think that exactly the government has managed to find a solution that will manage this situation in the long term. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-28-113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for the Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/15985. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-114	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XX The traces of the repressive systems of the century, whether we want them to or not, are still on us today. The horror, the unparalleled horror, not only sealed the fate of our country for decades, not only broke or destroyed the lives of millions of people, but also wounded the souls, and mercilessly scratched their unmistakable traces to this day. The destructions of two inhuman dictatorships, turning out of the corner of the world, ignoring the orderly laws of nature, cannot easily be recovered. If we don't face it, if we don't try to deal with the horrors, and we don't remind you of it, then it's absolutely impossible. Dear Parliament, Thirty years ago, we took our fate into our own hands, we were free to live, we were free to build our country, we were able to strengthen our communities, we were free to talk about our past. The shame can no longer be covered by academically disguised ideological voices, but we cannot afford such fashionable relativism and serenity baths today. [[18.00]] The survival of our ancestors obliges us to take account of the past. Although the two merciless systems have gone to the dump of the world, we must not forget them. Institutional evil can never be forgotten. We can't forget the heroes, the victims, but we have to point out the unsubs, because if we don't deal with them, if we let cruelty wash away in time, and forget our memories, then we can't learn anything from the agony. And history is present, burning with us as burning evidence, and it's enough to look only at the benches on the left. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Public Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society, which has been established for more than twenty years, is paying off a huge debt and is taking on a job as a substitute for the processing of historical traumas not only in Hungary but also in Central Europe and even in the world. Perhaps no more significant spiritual workshop has been established in the last 30 years. The foundation's decades past is the great success story of Hungary after the change of regime. We can't find an institution like him in such a powerful, honest and clean exploration of our past. Dear Parliament, The House of Terror Museum, operated by the Foundation, is a world-famous and internationally modelling institution. Since its establishment in 2002, it has boasted more than 8 million visitors. I know from my own experience that once you go through the museum's exhibition halls, you never forget what you see and experience there, you will no longer fall for world-changing ideologies. There is no such institution as this, which unveils evil, its cruelty, but also crippled lives and pure heroes. He shows the reproach, exposes the sinner, presents the man who takes his clothes off, the servant, and the executioner. They also remember the suffering of the victims. He bows his head to crippled lives and outcast fates. It sheds light on the heroes, the ones who resisted, the ones who didn't give in, the ones who went to the end in their sacrifice. We can consider it the justice of history, even if the real thing is left behind, that both stability and cruelty will have a face here, everything will be in its place. We can see clearer and clearer. You can't clean up the crime here. Dear Parliament, The Foundation and its institutions, such as the House of Terror Museum or XX. Company Institute, XXI. The Company Institute and the Communist Research Institute promote this clarity. I'm called to think in the spiritual workshops. They seek answers and make narratives that bring us closer to understanding the contexts of our recent past. I know some people get hurt, and some people would rather forget about sins. They are the ones who are constantly attacking the institution, who threatened to withdraw funds, and they were trying to get it to change its name. They are the ones who do not want the Hungarian people to know their past, perhaps because they are also afraid of their own past. From the fact that all sin is brought to the surface and can no longer be hidden and washed away. We all know the answer to the rhetorical question. That is why it is sad that the judgment on communism has not yet been reached, and we even find that the West is becoming more and more acceptable to this inhumane system. You can, because you didn't have to go through it. Ladies and Gentlemen, We owe great thanks to the head of the Institute, Mária Schmidt Széchenyi Prize-winning professor of historians, who always helps to face the crimes of Nazism and communism with tireless work, active engagement and accurate findings. Without him, we would not have created this deficiency facility, and today we would be much poorer and more spiritually vulnerable to those interested in collective amnesia. Mária Schmidt's brave stand and a multitude of personal struggles created, defended, held and set the institution on track of success. Dear Parliament, We should also mention the extraordinary activities of the Foundation's publishing and exhibition organizers, as a result of which, over the last 20 years, the XX has processed hundreds of publications and dozens of exhibitions in the last 20 years. The history of total dictatorships of the century. This foundation established the first Holocaust Museum in Hungary, and a few years later the Memorial Point Museum in Hódmezővásárhely, and later the House of Liberty in Pécsámson, which presents the story of one of the most important anti-communist resistance movements in the 1950s. Among other things, the foundation is that Cardinal József Mindszenty, the birthplace of Prince Prímás, is a permanent museum today. The programme series of Memorial Years managed by the Foundation, such as the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, the 100th anniversary of the First World War or the 30th anniversary of the system change, are also to be presented. The Foundation's award-winning activities, the Petőfi Prize, and the Petőfi memorial paper for the settlement are also to be highlighted, as a result of which the decisive figures of the anti-communist struggle have been honoured. There is no spiritual workshop in Hungary today that has organised more domestic and international social science conferences, round table discussions in the last 20 years, and has gained such recognition and recognition internationally. Dear Parliament, Mária Schmidt's words are always valid: We Hungarians respect our heroes. We keep our victims in our hearts, and we will never allow anyone to take away our country, our independence, our freedom, and our serenity. We're free, so we don't mourn the past, and we don't worry about the future. We keep in our hearts those who have accomplished the incredible wonders of our nation. And to the young people today, we have enough to say: where heroes are not forgotten, there will always be new ones. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, The bill before you is designed to ensure that this unparalleled intellectual workshop continues within a modern framework and on a secure basis. With the bill, Article XX. Research work exploring the crimes of total dictatorships of the century and the freedom to operate and research activities of organisations maintained by the Foundation will continue to be ensured in the long term. I therefore ask you to support the bill with your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[18.10]]
u2021-04-28-115	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Winner Vinnai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Mr. Notary. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to thank you as a historian for this larger presentation, since Hungary is XX. In its 20th century history, the terrible dictatorships left a strong mark, and after 1989-90, this was not fully presented, at all, by real presentation. After all, we can safely say, who live our lives among resources, that it is written and lived history... because history is the history of people, humanity, countries, nations, as people live it, and as historians write by searching for resources, by putting it into system, by the logic that gives us opportunities for conclusions. The two are authentic, because the two cannot coincide, one seeks subjective and the other seeks objectivity, but if the two are close to each other, the majority of society believes that the historical image is authentic. Now, this historical image wasn't credible before the change of regime, and even after that, it showed great deficits. So I say, too, that we should thank the Foundation for Research in History and Society in Central and Eastern Europe, namely Mária Schmidt, the Director-General of the House of Terror, for seeking this objectivity. There are several other schools of historians, there are several other research institutes, but there is none that would have consistently undertaken what happened in Hungary after the Second World War. How did the Communists come to power, how did the tragedy of the Germans in Hungary take place after 1945, how did the tragedy of the Hungarians in the Highlands take place? what was disguised as a Hungarian-Czechoslovak population exchange agreement, which was a lie, because this evacuation was not voluntary, but by force. You know, I come from a region where Hungarians from the highlands were planted, in the bushes in Nyíregyháza, and from there the CSÁB, the Czechoslovak Relocating Committee seduced the Slovaks there, and I saw huge personal tragedies, that they took away their land, their houses, had to come here with a 50-pound package, and here they were completely alien and in a different environment. Exploring these and showing them to young generations today, I think it shows that the foundation and those research institutes... But not only that, but also five research institutes have been set up by the public foundation: XX. Company Institute, XXI. For a long time we were with the Habsburgs, with the Austrians and the Imre Kertész Institute to take into account as many aspects as possible the XX. In connection with the redefining of Hungarian history in the first century. As the Secretary of State has said, we would like to give the public-interest foundation with a public-service mission qualification and asset allocation to make the work of this public-law foundation a guarantee that it will not be the victim of daily political struggles. [[Gergely Harvesting Laughing: Oh, no way!]] Don't be. Yeah. My fellow harvester, you can laugh at that, you can smile... [[Gergely Harvesto: It's a crappy government propaganda! What are you talking about?]] What kind of government propaganda? I don't even care about that. I'd like to continue with the public interest. Communism and dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe XX. The authentic exploration and presentation of the history of the century, the development of the foundations of a modern history view, because there is not only a kind of historical view. There is, indeed, a national sovereigntyist view of history based on conservative ideas. [[Gergely Harvesto: It would be better to rest on facts!]] It's not propaganda, it's a matter of fact. But we want to achieve these issues with educational films, documentary films, exhibitions, the publication of scientific books, the preparation of pedagogical materials, so that as many young as possible, but not only young, but especially young generations understand what happened there. Indeed, if these educational activities can be pursued in the case of other tragedies, we can also bring them closer to young generations and young generations with adult training activities and public benefit campaigns. The horrors of Hungarian communists of the century. And I'd like to say something else, because there are programs here, countless programs. We have heard from the rapporteur's exposé that the publication of hundreds of books, the organisation of dozens of independent exhibitions, scholarship programmes, and new memorial sites, which were also named by the Secretary of State. But let me tell you, as a university instructor, I've been teaching XX for over three decades. Hungarian history of the century: accredited pedagogical trainings were carried out by the foundation. This is not propaganda, my fellow Member. [[Gergely Harvesto: No, of course not.]] With 20,000 applicants, of course, that doesn't matter to you. Unusual history lessons. More than 15,000 students attended. Complete commemorative years in connection with the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and Freedom Fight. I could either mention the First World War Centennial Memorial series or a series of programs organized to honor the changes in the system. Ladies and gentlemen, The acquisition of trust status seems particularly important at a time when there is a struggle for the interpretation of the past and of the present. It is a global phenomenon that the violent and exclusive ideas of the communist era, which are aliens, anti-traditional forces, would like to prevent such a historical view from forming. A Sovereignist and, in this case, a Hungarian Sovereignist has attempted to establish a public foundation, and, as the Secretary of State has said, I sincerely join. One of the most successful periods from 22 years to 99 years, more than 20 years, more than two decades, with a lot of work, after 1945, as they said, or after World War II, he presented the story by naming the unsubs, so that the dreaded [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Andrássy Road turned 60 into Terror's House, where you could see what happened. And yes, the existence of the House of Terror Museum provided spiritual, spiritual satisfaction to hundreds of thousands of tortured victims of dictatorship. You know, when Rakosi came home from Moscow... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not home!]] I'm gonna go home with a subpoena. That's what I'm trying to say. He felt like a stranger here. This wasn't his country. The new masters of Hungary were aliens, and Hungary and the Hungarian nation meant nothing to them. [[Gergely Harvesto: Do you play a little Jew? Very good. You're worthy of the House of Terror. Gergely Harvesto is leaving the room.]] Therefore, people who act against the horrors of total dictatorships are called heroes, and have often brought life sacrifice to heroes. Please support this bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-28-117	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In relation to what Article XX provides for: He told me about the totalitarian dictatorships of the century, about the victims up there, on the pulpit, I can identify myself to the maximum. It is particularly important that, in connection with the murderous ideology that produces the largest mass grave in the history of the world, in relation to communism, which has left 100 million dead, let us see clearly. That's why I'm in a bit of trouble, because this bill is obviously not about that or just about that. [[18.20]] Over the last few days, we have seen what the history of public trust foundations is really about. The fact that 1750 properties were actually transferred to the board of trustees supervised by friends, MOL shares, Richter shares, land estates, castles, ports, more than a thousand billion forints. And if we add that to the story, unfortunately, we have to present this whole bill in a very different tone. So, if it were just what you said about the communist dictatorship, I would applaud it; I would say yes, you are right. But this story is a little different, and allow me to start from a further distance, from a village in South Somogy, back in 2008, from a residential forum where an old lady told me not to play Lawrence Ripper, because Lőrinc Mészáros only protects the nation's wealth against the reds, but he'll give it back. Well, something like that was said by György Hubay that all of this was needed so that it would never be in the hands of strangers. And then there comes the bearded joke from decades of socialism, when the question of what cognac is, they said: cognac is the drink that the working class and the peasants drink through elected representatives. Then, if you look at this wealth, you should ask yourself what the Cartier watch is, what the diamond bracelet of this brand is and what the diamond ring is. The answer could be that the jewel that the new wives of stromans, oligarchs, who were left out of Viktor Orbán's declaration of property wear on their wrists. Yes, Secretary of State, you can sigh, but this is also the reality. [[Lőrinc Nacsa presents a document: Congressman, House of Terror, Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm intervenes.]] House of Terror. My first experience in the House of Terror was a cathartic visit, and I was really touched and touched by what I saw there as a young philosopher in history. However, once again, it is important to remember that the history of trust funds in the public interest is something else. The Foundation for Central and Eastern European History and Society Research is a network of institutions, not only the House of Terror Museum, not only the Habsburg Institute of History, not only the Imre Kertész Institute, not only the Institute of Communism, but not only the XX. Company Institute, but there it is, let's say, XXI. So is the Company Institute, and if someone takes the time to look at, say, their website, then what comes up? Gábor G. Fodor's new book, The Orbán Rule. And if I say now that there is, in fact, government-fidesz propaganda on state money, then I do not think that you can deny that, my honourable pro-government fellow Members. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I can!]] Well, try, you obviously have your narratives about all this. However, we say that when the founder's rights are transferred to the board of trustees and they achieve that the court will register this foundation, this public foundation as a public trust fund, once again, I can only stress that the story will be about something else. Because so far, it's okay to examine historical, political, and social impacts of XX. In relation to the dictatorships of the century, and the history of communism is to be explored even more, let it be so, but once again and for the last time: this story is about something else. It is said in the bill that we will be talking about goals that go beyond party political relations. Well, I was just referring to something here, say, the XXI. Company Institute and the think tanks there. Well, if something doesn't go beyond party policy goals, it may be one of their activities. If you want to explore communism so much, you can also research the story of Fidesz, because Fidesz, let's say, has become a neobolshevik party. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] I know you don't like it; my fellow Member Nacsa, I see you're frowning. Yes, a neobolshevik with feudal elements has become a Fidesz party. And indeed, for the conduct of many NERSevik potentas, at the end of the Kadár era, some more normal party secretary would have been ashamed of his image! It is chemically pure Bolshevism, which you do in many cases, and if you want to research so much communism, then I would refer to Zsuzsanna Borguest, who has achieved indisputable merit in network research, research on communist networks. What did he say? Communism was about having a narrow elite over the nation's entire wealth. My fellow members of the Government, what are we talking about here? Don't they copy the same thing in other respects? Yes, you can. In the last few days, we have actually said everything about this, including our own narrative, our opposition narrative, with one or more accents, one or more vehemences, that it is actually the construction of a parallel orange state that we have in mind that we are talking about a large-scale privatisation; or then we could talk about the PPP system, a little transformative and brazen, perverse privatisation. We were talking about saving assets. In preparation for the post-22 period, Viktor Orbán is preparing to somehow maintain this feudal, feudal, familial network and continue feeding the NERSevik big guns. We talked about the fact that there's a band of robbers operating a corrupt system here who feel that the dolce debate is going to end, and we need to save these assets. Mr President, allow me to refer to my excellent fellow Member, Brenner Koloman, who has read something about Hungary's state form becoming a foundation. Yes, he is turning into a foundation in this way, led by a chief curator, Viktor Orbán. And one more thing, Mr Nacsa, my fellow Member and Secretary of State, you represent the pro-government side here, during the debate on this bill, which you have spoken with such sublime words. Well, if you're so keen on the cause of communism, I would like to ask you how, say, about making the state security past transparent, how the hell could it happen now, in 2021, that, say, my fellow Christian Member, he says that for the 23rd time, you will have to include a proposal on the publicity of agency lists? ! And I have to ask you where you were, say, or where there was a Lustration Act. They've been ruling by two-thirds for 11 years. If they were in a gentleman's mood, then in an exceptional procedure, without professional, political and social consultation, they trampled through Parliament in one day. Once again, where is the Lustration Act, that if they're so obsessed, they're so scared of the Communists? Well, nowhere. Probably not, because it would affect a number of comrades in your benches, and it would make me uncomfortable. But then I have to ask: how can democracy be built on the secrets of dictatorship? You don't. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of DK and the independents.]]
u2021-04-28-119	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-120	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, When I first visited the House of Terror as a child, with little knowledge of history, we only studied history at school a few years ago, and XX. We had not yet reached the horrors of the century, then I was absolutely shocked, and for many days and weeks I had been employed by what I saw there. [[18.30]] I also heard a number of stories at home, as my father's grandfather was an art nationalist during 1956, and he was fired during the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence so that Gergely Arató could understand it was a counterrevolution for him. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] But the thing is, when I first visited the House of Terror, I was deeply touched. What worked in me as a teenager was that all Hungarians should see this. All Hungarians must see the horror of what the Arrow and Communist dictatorship has done to this country, has done to the people living in it, has done to the communities and, by the way, countless of us with our relatives, friends, ancestors and all of Hungary's society. I was very pleased that this became a program, and hundreds of thousands of students, millions of visitors from Hungary and abroad have reached the House of Terror Museum in the last twenty years, and you have seen and heard those recordings, you have seen those images, you have read the information about a very ugly, distressful period in Hungary. I also remember, of course, how after 2002 the Medgyessy and Gyurcsány governments tried to make the House of Terror Museum financially impossible. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] I don't want you to remind me of a time that's obviously embarrassing for them. I can now speak as a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party in the National Assembly, the only historical party in the Hungarian Parliament, which has led the greats of the party, our ancestors, both the Arrow and the Communist dictatorship, both the black and the red dictatorship, persecuted and imprisoned them, forced them to emigrate, made them impossible, and even the Blue Teddy elections led them away from the election and the election victory. As the only historical party, unless the MSZP considers itself to be a successor here, with the successor of the Communist Party, we can say that it should be remembered in order to remind you. You must never forget those terrible things, never forget the sins that have happened, and that have happened through ideologies that have regained strength in our present world. I am thinking about relativising, I am thinking that European Union leaders can wreath statues of Marx during their term of office; that the president of the Hungarian parliamentary party calls herself a Soviet girl in social media. I think that the relativisation of the crimes of communism is constantly appearing not only in Hungarian but also in European public life, and I think that this is a dangerous direction. The series of celebrations, souvenirs, and exhibitions for the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution, when I could see it as an adult and as a politicalist, also made an impression on me. It is strange to say that this large series of events and the memorial exhibition took place on the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, which we can also say is not such a round number. Of course, because on the 50th anniversary, Ferenc Gyurcsány decided to conduct a horse-riding attack against his own people. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] It wasn't exactly the time to go to the museum when he had his own citizens sword-sworded and their eyes blown out. We know precisely that this is why we were not able to commemorate the heroes of 56 on the 50th anniversary of Pest, because on the 50th anniversary of 56 blood was spilled on the streets of Budapest because of Ferenc Gyurcsány. For this reason, on the 60th anniversary there was a large series of events and memorial exhibitions, which also had a great impact on me, and since then I have always told familiar teachers, students and school principals that students of the 10th grade and 11th grade should be taken to the House of Terror from Budapest, from the countryside and beyond. It's a symbolic, important and deep-meated exhibition that you have to look at there. Perhaps the strongest scene of the House of Terror exhibition is the changing room. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Now there's a branch of the Jobbik faction office, right now, for the changing room, but what we can see is how the Arrowmen became communists in an instant, as their interests so desired. Mária Schmidt, Director General, should be thanked for the design of the concept, the hard work, since the House of Terror is the most successful project of Hungarian memory policy in the last thirty years. For the past thirty years, he has founded the memory policy through temporary and permanent exhibitions, through the publishing of books, through the House of Terror concept, and in a symbolic place under the 60th House of Terror, Andrássy Road, which was the headquarters of the Arrow Party, and later the 60th and the ÁVH headquarters of Andrássy Road were the cause of the suffering of many people. I think that it is extremely important, we can say, that the House of Terror Museum is performing a social public task by reminding us that it keeps the sins of the past in front of the entire Hungarian society as an exclamation mark, and reminds us that we always had to fight for our freedom, so we have to fight now. And it reminds me that distorted, murderous ideologies should never be allowed space in this country or in the whole world. It is very important that not only the spiritual but also the spiritual memory of XX. The total dictatorships of the century were cruelly and innocently executed, tortured and abused. This activity, the reminder, is particularly important today when we can see that there is a harsh and continuous attack on Christianity, national sovereignty, pro-life, family and national culture all over Europe and globally. If we do not do everything we can to protect our values, then it is very easy to come back to the age when the horrors of total dictatorships are again questioned and relativised. We can see that this relativisation has begun, we have stepped on this path, we must fight with all our might against relativisation, sin is only sin. It is necessary to remind young people, older people, everyone in this country that such a thing cannot happen again in Hungary. Thank you, in particular, for Mr Secretary of State's exposé and introduction, where, conceptually, he said the essence of the House of Terror and the concept behind it. I strongly recommend to my fellow Members that you read the publications of the House of Terror, read the books that have been published in the care of the museum and the institutions around it over the past decades, and that you can learn from it. With valuables, these publications are about important issues, these books, I can only recommend that you read them, learn from them, because of past sins, past mistakes and, of course, past exploits in many places, we have the opportunity and duty to learn in many ways. You're here to use this topic for all kinds of political attacks, the House of Terror Museum, of course, because you wanted to make the museum impossible, you wanted to steal it financially. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] You wanted this museum to close its doors quietly in order to lock the door to the horrors of the past. It is only the case, ladies and gentlemen, that your project, your experiment, has failed because you cannot silence the horrors of the past, you cannot silence the sins of the past. Let us open the door wide, the House of Terror Museum and the surrounding institutions and think tanks receive the necessary support to open the door wide and remind everyone and continue the intellectual work that has been the most important memory policy activity of the last thirty years, and I hope that we will see a number of books, publications, exhibitions and events of similar quality in the next period, as we have heard from the House of Terror in the last twenty years. And I hope that at these events, at book shows and exhibitions, you will be able to meet a left-wing representative incognito in silence sometimes. Of course, the Christian Democratic People's Party will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2021-04-28-121	The next speaker in the lead speaker round is Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-28-122	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, let's not say, my fellow Member Nacsa, I believe that he really hates and hates communists, and I also believe that Fidesz deeply despises and hates communists and communism, but then be kind enough to share this deep hatred with the current Chinese Communist leadership. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's right!]] Or maybe the Vietnamese. Don't fool the people here. The Chinese Communist Party is buying the vaccine, the Chinese vaccine, for which I say everyone should give it to themselves, because any vaccine in Hungary today is better than the ventilator and death, but at least let us clarify that. It is likely that one of the aims of this bill and I will talk at the end of it about the other possible goals, one of its goals is for sure that you should signal to the Hungarian right-wing, fidesz voters that, despite their Chinese connections, they are anticommunists. But let's get to the bill for a moment and a few minutes. The current public foundation is the foundation of Mária Schmidt, which operates, among other things, the House of Terror Museum. The Foundation shall also be responsible for the implementation of Article XX of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Company Institute, XXI. Company Institute, Habsburg Historical Institute, Communism Research Institute and Imre Kertész Institute. However, after the adoption of the bill, the next step could be the transfer of the new, renamed foundation to state property. These assets that may be transferred will be removed from the control of the state. It is quite clear that, in order to ensure that the management of any state assets to be transferred in the event of a change of power remains in the interests and interests of the current arrangement, people loyal to the government must continue to be brought into the management of the foundations and made irreplaceable. By the way, we know that the members of this board also decide to fill empty spaces for this foundation. The chairman of the current public foundation is Károly Kapronczay, members: Mária Schmidt, András Lánczi, Anikó Farkas, János Martonyi. I don't think I have to introduce them to anyone in Hungary today. He was also a former MEP of Fidesz, József Szájer, who left the Curatorium after the scandal broke out. Let's look at the history. Since 2019, the government has given decisive importance to the form of public foundation. The first swallow was the Corvinus University of Budapest, where the government first established a foundation for the maintenance of which, in two steps, MOL and Richter donated 10-10 percent of their public shares. This was followed by the recapitalisation of Matthias Corvinus Collegium, just in his name. The foundation, which provided a dreamed cadre for the elite of future generations, also received 10-10 percent MOL and Richter shares. This was done in 2020 and the state assets allocated to the two foundations shortened our common national assets by nearly HUF 600 billion. Transparency International Hungary had already protested this move. Since then, events have accelerated, and the remaining MOL and Richter shares in the state, many other university buildings, but stud estates and other properties are also removed from the public property. It is no coincidence that new types of foundations are not covered by the prohibition of economic activity. Only if this ban does not apply, we cannot actually talk about a foundation in the classic sense of the concept. The legal form that the government is planning to create is actually everything but a classic foundation. There is nothing more typical than the fact that the bill, while obliging public-interest trust foundations to devote public-interest assets to public-service tasks and public-interest purposes, allows it to carry out its management activities in accordance with the principle of a private investor in the market. Since it is a public asset, asset management is a public task. The State shall perform its public tasks by means of budgetary bodies, in the light of the current rules on public finances. All other solutions, such as the involvement of entities other than public finances, are only permitted on an auxiliary basis. The purpose of this bill is to build a parallel and so-called deep state, the ultimate goal of which is to limit democratic will, and ultimately to make the political transition economy completely impossible in Hungary. A government that wins the next election, which holds the majority of society, its policy will not prevail, they want it to fail. Fidesz seeks to cement its own survival by removing public wealth, at the expense of all of our common values. The government is clearly and very clearly seeking that what it is now giving to the foundations should not simply be taken back by the next governments. This is a deeply anti-democratic step, if at all the expression and concept of democracy still means something to you in Hungary today. This has also stood out to me from the words of Mr Nacsa and Minister of State, and it is also intended to strengthen the hegemony of right-wing ideology, I would say, to make it exclusive, while eliminating the 1956 Institute and making every effort to make the Institute of Political History impossible. They are destroying institutions where research has been conducted without counterfeiting of history, and they are creating an institution where the odds are very high. So far it is not about having a common national memory policy, taking care of the past together and facing the horrors of the past, that is far from it. This is only in the interests of the memory policy of the right, the memory policy of the right, the memory policy of Fidesz, and the success of the narrative of Fidesz about history, nothing else. This foundation is not a nation's common cause, it's just Fidesz's case, it's nobody else's. It does not serve the processing of the past, it does not serve the reconciliation of Hungarian society, and therefore I am deeply convinced, regardless of ideology, that it does not serve the Hungarian future. I would just like to ask you one final question: I just don't understand why you're not speaking clearly. Why this double speech? Why are they not honest with the Hungarian population and Hungarian society about what they are really trying to do? That the establishment of this institution is nothing more than moving from an already established authoritarian state to a dictatorship. We are not there yet, I have never said that there is a dictatorship in Hungary, but we are moving towards it. Thank you.
u2021-04-28-123	Thank you. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-124	Thank you very much. There is a strong temptation for me to do some ideological outburst here in the style of Congressman Nacsa and Secretary of State and Mr Vinnai, and to correct your gross and outrageous lies, but I believe that the subject itself does not allow this to happen in many respects. One of them is, and I'd like to talk about it first, so that we can see what this is all about. Well, about another fidesz little king getting your fief. We were a little worried about what would happen to Mary Schmidt, because János Lázár or Szilárd Demeter had already received the stallium for her in the vote yesterday; really, if someone doesn't get it at the family luncheon, he will be offended, but now the government will remedy it urgently. [[18.50]] We understand that there will be another private fidesz foundation, which will, of course, continue to be held on public money, just as this institute and this foundation has been maintained in the past years on public money, Mr. Nacsa, indeed, during the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, because we thought a little differently about how memory policy should work in a country. Maybe we were naive. Without going into the institute's professional performance, let me remind you of three little things. Once again, in the case of a public institution. That is why the House of Terror was given a lot of legitimate criticism at first, that somehow it had been forgotten, by the advance of the Archangel Gabriel of Szabadság tér, that the Horthy era, the then state administration, had a very significant responsibility and sin in the Holocaust in Hungary, in the destruction of hundreds of thousands of our Jewish and Gypsy countrymen; this somehow did not fit into the House of Terror, somehow it did not fit into the realization of reality. The second case like this, you have talked a lot about the commemorative year of '56, that you have forgotten that the relatives of the real hero Paul Pruck, Pruck, had to sue this institution to ensure that the historical truth prevails, and not the forgery of history, by the way, I admit that it is probably not intentional, but a professional mistake made out of simple negligence. That's how much this institute respects historical credibility and the memory of 56. And, finally, we remember the very controversial and negative role played by this institution and its leader in the House of Fate project, which is still a disgrace to this government. It has not been realized, it is still a scandal, it has been spent on public funds, and not only did it not have a proper, worthy memory, but on the contrary, there is still a torso on the way to Rijeka. I must tell you that we thank you, of course, for one thing: with this bill, you make it clear that this foundation and its activities are part of the fidesz theft of the state. They don't just steal stud property, they don't just steal a castle, they don't just take a university with a resort, they don't just take the island of Shipyard, they take a museum, it's also included in this colourful, cheerful, fidesz-filled world of private foundations. And this will help us a lot, it will make our work a lot easier, because we will know what we will do after the change of government: this public property, this public money, will also be returned to the Hungarian taxpayers, who are entitled to it, as well as the others. This problem has been solved, created a clear situation. Finally, I would like to make it very clear that we do not object to exploring, researching, presenting the crimes of communism, but we say that all totalitarian systems, all oppressive systems, all anti-democratic systems, the sins and the history of every system that ignores its own people, the Horthy era, the time of the Arrowmen, the time of communism must also be revealed, it must be made clear, it must be made known to young people, but not on the basis of some sort of prewritten propaganda narrative. Congressman Vinnai says there's a modern conservative view of value here. We would like this history, modern history concept to be based not on such or such a view of value, but on reality, on researchable and demonstrable historical facts. This is what will happen after history is finally once again not a minister of politics, as in your time, but once again will be dealt with by those who are competent and who otherwise enjoy adequate autonomy and independence in re-autonomous universities and in science research institutions that are re-autonomous and run by researchers. And they will write and present not only the history and sins of the Horthy era, the Arrow Age or the communist era, but also the history, sins and fall of the Orbán era. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-125	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who presents the first sentences of his speech in ethnic language and then translates it into Hungarian. Herr Abgeordneter Ritter, sie haben das Wort.
u2021-04-28-126	Danke sehr. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs über die Stiftung zur Erforschung von Geschichte und Gesellschaft in Mittleres und Östliche Europa mit Nr. 15985, force field. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/15985. on the bill on the Central and Eastern European History and Society Foundation for Research! At the beginning of my comment, I would like to make it clear that we are in favour of this proposal, and that we fully agree with the public tasks set out for the Foundation. CHAPTER XX With historical, political, social and cultural research in Hungary and Central and Eastern Europe, in particular communism and dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe XX. We consider the continuing performance of public tasks related to the exploration and presentation of its history of the century to be a priority. I ignore the detailed list of the Foundation's public tasks in Annex 1, but all these objectives can not only be agreed, but I think we should also agree. The National Council of Germans in Hungary also considered this issue a priority issue 20 years ago. After several years of preparatory work at the Faculty of Humanities of the University of Pécs, the German History and Culture Department of Foundations was established in cooperation between the German and Hungarian States, and its founding document was signed on 13 September 2006. The name and function of the department are small, but it is almost identical to the name and public tasks of the foundation we are discussing, of course primarily and especially the Germans of the region XVIII-XIX-XX. research and education in the history of the century and the provision of services according to the needs of the German community: ethnic expertise, further education of nationality teachers, etc. For five years, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany has financed the operation of the Department of Foundation of German History and Culture in South-Eastern Central Europe, founded at the University of Pécs, with the condition that after the first five years the Hungarian Government undertakes to finance the department. The Government of the Republic of Hungary has expressed its thanks to Germany for its establishment and support in a diplomatic register dated 21 October 2011 and has also assured the German Government that the Department will be supported and ensured by the Ministry of National Resources from 2012. On an annual basis, the grant appeared on a separate budget line from 2007 onwards in the budget of the University of Pécs, which was important because the PTE also committed itself to the operation of the department in the agreement of 13 September 2006, which is of course still valid today. After more than a decade of extremely effective operation, the department has already faced growing funding, employment and other problems in recent years. On the one hand, the budget of the German Foundation Department since 2006, i.e. for 15 years now unchanged 13 million HUF, and on the other hand the Ministry responsible for innovation and technology broke off in 2019 with the system whereby the budget of the Department of Foundations of German History and Culture in South East-Central Europe was HUF 13 million in the Faculty of Humanities of the University of Pécs, which was, so to speak, entered into the total budget of the PTE in 2020. [[19.00]] This was misinterpreted by the rector of the PTE, his Senate, that the state would no longer support the German foundation department. On 31 December 2019, the head of the department ceased to have an employment relationship, and the head of the department was only recently announced. We have made significant efforts to resolve the situation, including Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor, Commissioner of Fundamental Rights, on 19 December 2019; Dr. Zsuzsa Gerner habil, Honorary Consul of the Federal Republic of Germany; Ibolya Englenderné Hock, President of the National Municipality of Hungary, was personally consulted with Dr. Attila Miseta Rector in Pécs. On 10 February 2020, we discussed with President Ibolya Englenderné Hock in the ITM together with Dr. Professor József Bódis, State Secretary for Higher Education and Vocational Training, and requested in the budget for 2021 the increase of the department's budget to HUF 5 million a year, the re-entry of the budget into a separate line of HUF 18 million, and the clear declaration to the university that the Hungarian State will continue to support and ensure the operation of the Foundation Department of German History and Culture in Southeast Central Europe in accordance with the 2006 Interstate Agreement and the 2011 diplomatic registry. Despite all our efforts, the department's situation has not been resolved to this day, because of the uncertainty that is now almost two years old, the department can cease to function at any time, which is obviously unacceptable. On this basis, I would like to ask the authorities of both the Government and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and of the University of Pécs to take immediate action to settle the situation of the German History and Culture Foundation Department in South-Eastern Central Europe, to ensure long-term smooth operation. I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology to the fact that the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 64. § 4 requires the Minister to obtain the opinion of the National National Nationality Council in his decisions regarding ethnic education. I also draw the attention in advance to the future Curatorium of the Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation, the future maintainer of the University of Pécs, that T/15728 on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws. the 2011 CCIV on national higher education on the basis of the legislative amendment adopted yesterday by Parliament. Law 73. Paragraph 3a of the Act complements paragraph 3a that the national minority council shall obtain the opinion of the national minority council in its decisions in respect of national minority training. In other words, if either the minister or the maintenance curatorium no longer asked for the opinion of the National Parliamentary Council on the Department of Foundations of German History and Culture in South-Eastern Central Europe, it would make its decision in a law-breaking manner. I sincerely hope that, thanks to the recent legislative amendments, all the relevant decision-makers will be helpful and law-abiding in resolving the situation as soon as possible. Dear House, The Hungarian Parliament is the XX. After centuries of inhumanity, abuse, and storms, he was exemplary in creating a decent, credible memory culture, promoting and strengthening reconciliation. The Hungarian Parliament is 103/2013. By its parliamentary decision, he declared 19 January, the anniversary of the banishment in 1946, a memorial day for the abduction and expulsion of Germans in Hungary. This set an example for Europe as a whole. Thank you for that. The annual government commemoration that we had to postpone this year due to the requirements of the pandemic situation, but the Prime Minister, with a personal, intimate wreath, made the Memorial Day a memorable contribution to reconciliation and peaceful coexistence. In addition to the Germanism in Hungary, of course, the other 12 indigenous nationalities living with us have the opportunity here, in the Hungarian Parliament, to commemorate and cultivate the friendly and good neighbourly relations of their mother countries, their ethnicities and the Hungarian state, the Hungarian majority society. I am thinking here about the friendship days to be held every year, for example in the case of Bulgarians and Poles, the speakers' speeches before the agenda, and so on. At the same time, it should also be pointed out that Article 103/2013 provides for the possibility of imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of According to paragraph 2 (3) of the parliamentary decision, the Parliament supports and encourages the organisation of commemorations and the production of educational materials relating to the persecution, persecution and expulsion of the German community in Hungary. There has also been significant progress in organizing and supporting these commemorations in recent years, and even a significant number of educational materials have been produced, but these educational materials are still hardly present in Hungarian public education. There is still much work to be done in this area, and it is also intended to provide a credible foundation and completeness for the research, analysis, teaching materials and pedagogical resources that are covered by the T/15985. The Government will establish a Foundation for Research in History and Society in Central and Eastern Europe, and I reiterate that the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary fully agrees with the establishment and definition of its public tasks. The indigenous ethnicities living in Hungary were an integral part of Hungarian history, politics, society and culture. In the century, and they are today. CHAPTER XX The ordeals of the 20th century, along with the majority of Hungary's population, affected Hungarian ethnicities in the same way, and sometimes even because of their nationality. The 13 indigenous ethnicities in Hungary are, according to our Fundamental Law, a factor of state making in Hungary, and still represent almost 10 percent of the country's population. Their historical, political, social and cultural research is inseparable from Hungarian history, politics, social development and culture, as is the case in reverse. In fact, it's not just XX. In the century, not only the XVIII-XIX. In the century, but in the last millennium. We therefore miss the fact that the list of the Foundation's public tasks did not mention the tasks, research and other tasks related to indigenous ethnicities in Hungary. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary will draw up and submit an amendment to this House. CHAPTER XX With historical and political research in Hungary and Central and Eastern Europe, in particular communism and dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe XX. The continuous performance of public tasks related to the exploration and presentation of the history of the century should be an integral part of the impact, research and analysis of indigenous ethnicities in Hungary, and the rest. Therefore, in order to ensure this, I would like to draw attention now to the fact that we consider it appropriate to ensure that national minority considerations are taken into account on a continuous basis and to ensure that representation of indigenous ethnicities in Hungary is provided in the future Curatorium of the Foundation for History and Society Research in Central and Eastern Europe. I ask for the assistance of this House and the Government. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[19.10]]
u2021-04-28-127	Danke schön, Herr Abgeordneter. Ladies and gentlemen, There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to independent Congressman Varga-Damm Andrea. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't sign up for this bill because I thought or expected that we would have to listen to a modest exposé with a narrow focus on the proposal, and then Secretary of State Schanda probably didn't write his speech. [[Tamás János Schanda: Why? Gergely Harvesto: He's got to do with something like this. Don't underestimate the congresswoman...]] Schmidt performed a cheering and worshiping talk for Mary Schmidt. I expected that at some point, as he stood on the pulpit, somehow from the ceiling, the whole figure of Mary Schmidt falls down on a molinah, because that's all that was needed for this performance. Yes, you are right, my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, when I first visited the House of Terror Museum, I was impressed by the quality of the exhibition, too, and I thought that everyone should see this, and I hoped that all those people who were actually beneficiaries of the regime change would sacrifice for our nation rather than operate a paying place for the museum. Then, when time went on and historians analyzed the material of the exhibition, it turned out that public-law killers were listed as victims, for example, on the victim's wall, and unfortunately, the museum is full of history forgery, false statements about different people from different periods; because this is part of the story. The only truly authentic place in this museum is indeed the changing room, which I often characterize in my political speeches, as the Nazis have become communists, but let's not forget, history always repeats itself, and this dressing room, it would be very often applicable in your benches, only you may have done so in such small booths. This is also a very important issue for me, because my family has really been destroyed by communists; they have taken away everything from my family, all of its resources, so that I have a duty to remember my grandparents and to preserve and carry on the memory of my grandparents, to protest against all those who perform themselves as the supporters of democracy, as weapons bearers of great democratic transformation, and to perform themselves as credible people. On the dawn of the regime change, I was happy to run to Kossuth Square myself, as a young lawyer, although I did not understand why Mátyás Szűrös is on the balcony, so there it was, and when I was able to see the state's wealth, the nation's common wealth, how the communists privatized it for themselves, then I could very much see that this change of regime was not what we wanted, and that the Schmidt family, among many of us, was also a beneficiary of this change of regime and the extortion of state wealth, we all know. We didn't really see the billionaire woman spend her own billions on the common memory of the nation, but it's more about non-transparent accounts every year. Then let's look at the exhibition entitled "Free 30 years of 2019," about which historians and the press were astoundingly reporting how the events were forged on the published tableaus: by presenting photos of 88 as "89," painting the black and white photos as orange from the dawn of the change of regime; by telling Viktor Orbán that he had disturbed the Russians from Hungary, even though we all know that the exit had already taken place abundantly; and in fact the memory of this extremely important topic became a fidesz propaganda machine. Anyone who presents himself in Hungary as an explorer of the crimes of the Communists, while falsifying this historical period with either a sentence or an exhibition tableau is desecrating the memory of the people and of the people who were actually victims of the Communists. Soon after the change of regime, my grandparents told me, my little girl, they're the same. In their village, the communist suddenly became a Democrat, in their village the World Secretary can still determine the important issues of the village's life, because the real regime change has not taken place. If it had happened, the people who were the maintainers of the communist regime, and who then benefited from the slaughter of the nation's wealth of the nation's common resources, they had nothing, but have no right to any public office, no right to any kind of national respect. It is the right of those who are truly selfless, credible, and truly presenting that system in order to discover reality. But I will not tolerate this period being presented to future generations by falsifying and misleading the future generation, and trying to make the young generation believe that everyone in their ranks is the guardian of democracy, and everyone has done so that democratic systems can come into being, even though there are many of you who benefit from the change of regime and not the guardians of democratic principles! Thank you very much. [[János Bencsik applauds.]]
u2021-04-28-129	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-130	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Tough accusations from you here. Congressman Arató has broken down hundreds of historians, researchers, who work at the exhibitions, permanent and temporary exhibitions and research institutes of the House of Terror, because he said that they are not real historians, and then you bring real historians who are going to put the truth right here. In their name, too, I refuse to be called a false historian by Congressman Arato and insult him in this way. But, Congressman, I invite you, as soon as it's possible and museums open, let's go and show you where the exhibition is factually wrong, because you were talking about counterfeiting of history, while remembering that in 2004 one of your main ideologists tried to exonerate the communist system in a huge volume of studies and said that it wasn't a system of violence. This was your forgery of history! You're New Mút Kft., you're trying to rewrite the past, you're trying to rewrite Jobbik's past, you're trying to rewrite your past. It is about coming to Parliament in the debate on the House of Terror Museum and saying that the data contained there is not credible and that the exhibition does not correspond to reality. How do you want to twist the mirror here, Congressman, in which direction? 'Cause that's a decision to make. And what period exhibition does the congressman have a problem with? The Raoul Wallenberg exhibit, perhaps? With the Exhibition of the Gypsy Freedom Fighters? The exhibition about Ferenc Puskás? The one about Mindszenty, the one about the Polish Freedom Fighters? Which exhibition does the congressman have such a huge problem with these issues, that you say this in some way as a forgery of history? Feel free to deny it. He says they're going to return the stolen property. Congressman, this is what we're waiting for. 192 privatized companies, mostly profitable; 169 billion from Metro 4; 2368 billion forints from PPP contracts, the two motorways; many tens of millions of contracts provided to the criminal Csaba Czeglédy. Well, that's what we're waiting for you to return the stolen property. Well, since we've been waiting for this. We have just received a faint promise from Congressman Arató that the stolen property will be returned; small fork and companions. You're free to begin, Your Honour. We would be most pleased if the wealth stolen by you and your predecessors were to benefit the growth and benefit of the Hungarian nation. I would like that very much, Your Honour. Congresswoman Varga-Damm has also accused the House of Terror Museum of history and has conducted all kinds of naughty, despicable, political attacks by the employees of the museum [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Oh, my God!]] researchers, historians, honourable Member [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I'm against Mary Schmidt...]] while you were running for president in a party that goes home to the changing room! Well, how many times do you change, Your Honour? ! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] You're the biggest change of clothes. (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Oh, no!) Look at what's happened in your benches in the last few years. Madam Member, you are running for president in a party that is trying to bring the mood of the changing room into your group. I'm asking you not to attack at least the employees, researchers, curators and historians of the museum just because that's what you're trying to do. From petty political interests, don't attack a guard of professional, prestigious historians and researchers here in Parliament! We're used to it, and that's your business, it's perfectly natural, it's okay, I'm happy for you. [[19.20]] But I'm asking you not to charge renowned historians or researchers with counterfeiting of history while you tried to explain in state-funded studies that the communist regime was not a system of violence. I understand that you must protect the communist system, because this is also a task, in order to protect the insolence of Ferenc Gyurcsány, if he still has it, he must protect the communist system, but I ask you not to crush people working at least in museums in this way, as you have done. Rather, support it, and your voters, through their youth organisations, tell you to organize trips to the House of Terror by opening museums, organizing conferences, reading the books that are the products of 20-year-old spiritual work, and certainly many years-old spiritual work around the House of Terror and the surrounding research institutes and foundations. I really encourage you to do this, and I would be happy to go on a tour with Mr Arató to tell you how many places the House of Terror Museum exhibition does not fit. But I think you'd learn from that visit, just like we do every time we leave, we learn from the permanent and temporary exhibitions of the House of Terror Museum. I'm asking you not to attack the employees of the museum. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-131	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, on a two-minute note. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-132	Thank you very much. I wonder how many excellent historians participated in the great and accurate professional project and work aimed at showing young Viktor Orbán around the great festivals of the country on video screens. It must have been significant and serious historical work. Let's be honest, this really was the cheapest, most embarrassing government propaganda when the dictator was showing himself at the festivals for public money. Okay, I also prefer to watch the young freedom-loving Viktor Orbán more than the autocracy of the present age, no doubt, but I do not think that many, many millions of forints of public money should be spent on this. But I'll tell Congressman Nacha something. The general level of your contribution does not allow me to participate in this, the memory of the victims does not allow me to go down to the level where you are talking, but I would like to say one thing. There are a lot of historians working today and a lot of professionals in this institution who will be happy if they do not have to meet political expectations, but work independently and autonomously in a state institution. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-133	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik, an independent representative. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-134	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, a new political course has led the country, a political course defining itself as a national and a Christian Democrat, which also uses a completely different light, a different refraction and a different policy than the previous ones. This new discourse in history research does have virtues, new and old themes in a new light, and we dare to break up with the principle of being small, to put Trianon, Horthy age and 1956 into a different light, and to overthrow former taboos. These are all significant progress in relation to the memory policy before 2010. Great films were born, high-quality conferences and research. These are remarkable achievements, even if I agree with my fellow opposition Members who have said that in recent years we have been able to set a number of examples that do not belong to the glorious chapters when they are mentioned in section XX. The story of the century had to be copied or raped in order to be used for current political courses, politicians or propaganda steels. There have been, there are, and probably there will be wild drivings, which is sad just because these events cast a shadow on the hard and strained work of all the researchers, hundreds of researchers who, by the way, do their own research in their everyday life, in accordance with their professional commitment and profession. This kind of reversion of history casts quite a long shadow on their work. But for me, my main problem is not necessarily this, or not only this, but also that there are actors here who, in recent years, have, as it turns out, an active, long-standing communist past, and these actors have been able to stay in position or rise to position thanks to the current political course. Who am I thinking of? For example, Gábor Xantus, who may have been a founding member of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, has previously reported Hungarian writers in Transylvania and has done an active informer work. Well, that's pretty clear. I confronted Prime Minister Viktor Orbán here, within the walls of this house, and he said that he would look into it, but no feedback has been received since. So what I have to conclude is that you think it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. But there is, for example, Mayor Károly Szita of Kaposvár, who was operational officer III/II, and now President of the County City Association. Or, for example, László Tasnádi, who was able to become State Secretary for Home Affairs until 2016, who was an III/II officer. Or I could mention Sándor Békés, who also became the editor-in-chief of a hunting journal under government pressure as a III/III snitch. Or, for example, the less-known József Horváth, who became the employee of the Centre for Fundamental Rights, I do not know, felt the surreality of this, that he had previously actively supported it, built socialism with his work, and operated the repressive system. I would point out here that these are not people who have served a system, but those who have actively operated it, who have been leaders of state terror. These people, thanks to you, could have held or received new public offices. How is this thing, fellow Members of the Government? How do these two things connect? If you consider it a government mission to uncover and present the crimes of communism, how can you raise pedestals of the crimes of communism, not just sharing, participating, but leading people? You have to decide which one, because either one or the other, the two don't fit side by side, and one discredits the other. As long as Hungarian citizens see that some people who belong to a privileged clique or circle can participate in the historical, cultural elite or the second line of this new course in addition to all their sins, they will not be able to represent the cause of anti-communism in a credible way. Let's talk about the institutional system. Here, too, it must be acknowledged that there has been a change of course since 2010, and this has indeed positive, forward-looking and commendable developments. For example, there is the Institute for the History of System Change or the Veritas Institute for History, which is the XX. In connection with the re-evaluation of Hungarian history of the century, he has done and is doing very serious, commendable scientific work in the days. But it is also not possible to go without saying to institutions such as the Hungarian Institute of Research, which do the same work that those institutions do in accordance with Article XX. In the century, they graduated with honor, in their own fields of science, in ancient history, not only could they not do it, they made it a laughing stock and a laughing stock. You would have had the opportunity to conduct the change of paradigm in the history of thought, and finally break with the old dogmas and taboos, with the policy of being small, by concealing and denying the Eastern origin of the Hungarians was a kind of mandatory national political minimum before 2010, so that you can finally create the institutional conditions, open the gates, provide a source for the research that, based on real historical research, finally gives the Hungarian prehistoric history its recognition, rank, national and international prestige, to which all Hungarians can be proud. [[19.30]] But against XX. With centuries of historical research, which, as I mentioned, has wild drivings, and there are stains of shame, but, overall, it is a very positive move, and in Hungarian prehistoric history this has not been done, and not only did it fail, but I apologize, I will say it a little hard, but I must, because you have filled the Hungarian Institute of Research with the congregation of running fools and con artists, and you have made the Hungarian prehistoric history a laughing matter. There's the movie about the Battle of Bratislava, it's become iconic, it's been all over the world. I am sure that many of my fellow Members in the opposition benches laughed at good taste on these images. I couldn't laugh at them, and I couldn't laugh at this movie, this crappy, history-falsifying movie, and I was humiliated in my Hungarianness, and I couldn't laugh at that. I was humiliated and insulted as a Hungarian, and I must say that I felt the strongest feeling when I saw this, not the good pity, but the anger. Somehow we should go in a direction where instead of forced reideology, rape and use of the past for current propaganda steels, we can give space to researchers who have done very serious work now, as I have said, who have been able to come forward in the last 12 years, to step up and work hard. This research team of historians should provide more space. As a representative of the Civic Reply movement, I believe that, especially in Hungarian history after 1945, false narratives need to be overwritten, a new past image is needed, but this can only happen with credible and committed professionals. I urge you to do this, I wish you good work, perseverance and commitment to every historian, researcher involved in this work, and I urge you to stand up to your work to maintain professional integrity and resist all kinds of forces that act against it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-04-28-135	Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, for a two-minute speech. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-28-136	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It's just that Congressman Nacsa here has something on my mind, and I thought I'd at least tell you for the record and for his sake. In 2019, Viktor Orbán celebrated the 70th anniversary of the admission of diplomatic relations between China and Hungary. Do you know who was driving China then? Mao Ce-tung. And do you know who was the leader of Hungary at that time, the actual leader of Hungary, when we entered into diplomatic relations with China? Mátyás Rákosi, the real leader of the country, is the Secretary General of the Hungarian Workers' Party, Deputy Prime Minister. But by the way, the Secretary General of the Vietnam Communist Party was recently received, no disrespect to the Secretary-General, but I cannot pronounce his name, and János Áder also visited the country. Look! By the way, China may not be interested in your double speech, it is most likely so, and I also see that the Fidesz voters are not very interested, because then their voting base would not be so stable, but for the sake of the record, I told them that they should be guarded by history. Thank you.
u2021-04-28-137	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] Secretary Schanda has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-138	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond to some of the things that have been said in the debate, even if I think that this is a more serious and more important matter than the issues that have been raised here in the debate, and as unworthy sentences have been spoken. But it's important that we don't leave these sentences in the air, they don't stay between us, so I'm going to have to respond to these sentences, even if I think that the activities of the public foundation, the memory of the victims for whom the foundation is about, including the memory of the heroes who deserve more than that. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] as some Members have said. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: No heroes!]] Dear Parliament, All kinds of strange sentences have been said here during the first speaker's speech by Mr Ander, who I previously thought was one of Jobbik's last national politicians, but he also spoke more against the public foundation and the legislation. You do not understand the importance or do not want to understand the importance of giving this institution stability and security [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] why it is necessary to develop a model... Congresswoman, I have listened to you, even if it was difficult for me. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. ) If you keep your voice down, I'll try to answer your comment. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] Even if I don't, I'm still gonna answer you, you're not gonna be able to put the word in me at real commie speed. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Communists are you and not me!]] Dear Parliament, [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Anyone who conspires with communists is a communist!]] Back to what Congressman Ander has said, I think we should say it again and confirm that all the accusations relating to trust foundations with a new perspective and new operational practices are false. These are false remarks, even from Jobbik, as the Member said, if I quote precisely, that there is a play-off for my friends here. On the one hand, I think, honourable Member, that this sentence is unworthy of your previous words and, on the other hand, you must understand it precisely, and everyone must understand that the property elements, which are actually owned by the foundation, do not become private property, are not privatised, as the otherwise privatizing expert socialist and DK Members later said, is not so. It's a public-service asset that's worth nothing else! under no circumstances shall it be used as a public purpose as laid down by law. Let this be clear and clear. Here, however, we clearly and clearly define the common goal that the foundation is working for, what is the public task that it needs to do, for which it receives these assets, so that it can do this work independently, in a stable and secure manner. Dear Parliament, Here, too, some of the taste questions were raised later on in some books, perhaps even brought up by Congressman Ander. I would like to note, however, that Article 21 (1) (a) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) ( The Company Institute is a Conservative Institute of Social Sciences, an institute that [[19.40]] And while many desire to master the interpretation of history, it is important that everyone here also has the opportunity to do their own research and to have the space to publish publications, such as those published in the 21st century. Squadron Institute's gonna release them. They're gonna show up. And I think it is unworthy, especially from a Member who sometimes thinks himself even national, to attack these publications, the national, sovereigntyist, conservative publications that really contribute to the development of public thinking in Hungary. There is a great need for these publications, there is a great need for Hungarian-language reading works that were not yet readable, and for this reason, I think we can be grateful to the Institute, and we can only ask him to continue this work. Congressman Nacsa responded to a lot of things that I wanted to respond to, and I try not to repeat them, but there is one thing that needs to be put on the speaker. Just because I have the honour of standing here, I can say that one of the most important political experiences of my generation is a very serious day, very serious days. The days that Congressman Arató tried to forget; those days, that day, the 50th anniversary of the 56th Revolution on 23 October... [[Gergely Harvester: You've whistled Kosary Domokos, that day!]] The day, honourable Member, when you celebrated the 50th anniversary of October... [[Gergely Harvestó: I regret that I can no longer answer! Nacsa Lőrinc: He didn't answer me either!]] Honourable Congressman, they beat people bloody in Budapest, chasing mothers, chasing young people, chasing women, chasing my mother, chasing her on the street of Budapest. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] and shot people's eyes out. That's what they've been down to, Mr. Congressman. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] They sank to this point, celebrating the 50th anniversary of 56 by beating people and shooting eyes out. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] That's what we'll never forget for you. That's what defines it, by the way. [[Gergely Harvesto: Neither did I to ruin the memory of 56!]] a generation's experience with you. Honourable Congressman, This is why it is of key importance that the 60th anniversary was celebrated with dignity in the organisation of the public foundation. Honourable Congressman, It may hurt you, it may hurt you, it may hurt you, it may hurt you. [[Gergely Harvesto: You will be ashamed of yourselves!]] We'll never forgive you for that... [[Gergely Harvesto: The truth will come out sooner or later, and you will be ashamed of yourself!]] "Dear Member, we will never forgive you for what you have done in connection with 56." Allow me also to respond to what Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi said, because there has been a lot, a lot, that is worth answering. On the one hand, I think that we on the national-citizen side do not need to prove that we are anti-communists, that neither the Christian Democratic People's Party nor the Fidesz have to prove it. [[Gergely Harvesto: You can't prove anything else all the time!]] However, I find it unworthy and outrageous that the President of the Hungarian Socialist Party stands up in the National Assembly and, by the way, tries to lecture us on democracy and democracy. The party that he is leading is the successor party of the MSZMP; it is outrageous that he does not then apologize in the debate of this bill, he does not follow the victims, but he is also trying to lecture us on the national side of democracy. I also find it unworthy and simply incomprehensible that the first thing that comes to mind about this issue is whether or not to buy a vaccine from China. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes! Shame!]] They're still there to think that buying vaccines from China was wrong. [[Gergely Arató: The Congressman said the opposite! Lárinc Nacsa: That's what Laszlo Varju said!]] And thus saving the lives of thousands of people in Hungary. I find that unworthy and outrageous. And that's just a little technical clarification, because it's important for us to respond to them, that the foundation gets a fortune precisely so that it can carry out its public tasks. And the greatness of this model, the novelty of it, is that it can manage this wealth for public service. This is also right, and we think it is right that, by the way, this wealth can be managed for as long as it can only be used to carry out the public task. This is a great opportunity for the foundation and a great opportunity for all those who consider the work of the foundation important. And I find that quite strange and unworthy of the debate on the bill, and I would like to end my response to Congresswoman Kunhalmi's attempt to compare the work of the Foundation with the work of the Institute of Political History, which is now called the Institute of Political History, but in fact, it is the work of the Institute of Party History. This metaphor is a disgrace, and it shows what you think on the left. Mr. Harvester also talked about many things. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Except for the truth.]] It's just hard to answer it calmly and calmly. [[Gergely Harvestó: You've never been able to save yourself before.]] On the one hand, it could be an entertaining category when you talk about stealing, or you talk about stealing in the Gyurcsány Party and returning stolen items. You can really start with the tiny fork, and you can go through it for a long time, here, Congressman Nacsa has listed a lot of things. But what is quite shameful is that what you personally participated in is a catastrophic government, where a significant part of the Hungarian state companies were privatized, hundreds of companies were sold, hundreds and thousands of millions of dollars of wealth were disposed of, used, and then left the country in ruins. [[Gergely Harvester: Of course! Nacsa Lőrinc: Do you deny even that?]] then you have the courage to account for the government that owns the national assets. [[Gergely Harvesto: Don't be afraid of my courage, that's all there is.]] He didn't sell it, he didn't privatize it, he increased it. [[Gergely Harvesting: Sure!]] He's increased national wealth considerably, he's regained in many cases what you've played out for your buddies, and you've played it out for your foreign masters. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Congressman, it is quite amazing that you now have the courage to use such words in Parliament. We thank Mr Ritter for his comments, and these were important comments, and I trust that we will have the opportunity to continue to discuss this in depth in the process of adopting the law. However, it is also important to draw attention to the fact that, in the course of the public foundation's work, for example, it organised a significant exhibition and a conference on Swabian evacuations, and it also carries out an important memory policy activity in this area. [[19.50]] The fact is, I would just like to say a few sentences to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. On the one hand, I am proud to take every point, every sentence and every word of my speech. I'm also proud that unlike you, I didn't take this from Wikipedia. The fact is that I find it sad that the congresswoman is a sovereigntyist, a nationwide interest, national values, an institution that respects pro-freedom traditions, a public foundation and charges history forgery and much more. We had to hear quite amazing sentences from the Member, because it is an institution that virtually uniquely considers these values to be important and shows them in public thinking, which is why we should be particularly proud of her, and that is why the attack on Mary Schmidt, even against Mary Schmidt, is unworthy and insidious. She's not up to her elbows, and she's not up to her skills compared to that of the Director-General. It is quite amazing that after decades of work that the Director-General has done and the results of the Foundation and its institutional system, such sentences can then be made. On the subject of Mr Bencsik's speech, I was pleased to hear that he, too, considers the appearance of these thoughts to be important. I also think that we can agree on a lot of things in relation to the foundation, as there has really been important research and change of perspective after 2010. And what I have seen sadly is that you are also taking advantage of the debate of this bill on the issue that has nothing to do with this bill, just so that you can speak in the voice of criticism; that is all, but not civil, and everything but a national attitude. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] I hope I've been able to answer every pitch, every sentence I've spoken. All I have left to do is ask the Honourable Parliament to vote in favour of the bill tabled, because we are serving an important national strategy objective. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-28-139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, The next item is the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. General debate on the amendment of law and of certain related laws until closure. The government referral is T/16000. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-04-28-140	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you proposes to amend a number of legislation. Please allow me to start by presenting the bill with an amendment to the law on national higher education. The Hungarian health care institutions are the medical-university clinical centres, which are well aware of the threefold link between education, research and health care in their work. And the amendment before you is intended to ensure consistency between the health and educational relationship of the instructor in the medical service in the clinical centre. Dear Parliament, The government's priority economic development task is to support domestic innovation, which should also take into account the feedback received from the actors in the innovation ecosystem, and on this basis the legislator should promote the success of knowledge recovery processes by ensuring an adequate regulatory environment. Knowledge and innovation parks will be important depositaries for increasing the competitiveness, R &amp; D and innovation capacity of higher education institutions, which can strengthen university industrial cooperation and the use of university knowledge in business environments. As regards the companies that are established here, it should be possible to acquire ownership by higher education institutions and to allow these institutional companies to carry out research, development and innovation and entrepreneurship activities. The next stage in the development of the ecosystem also requires a review of the rules on intellectual property rights and the exploitation of intellectual property. In order to increase predictability, it is also appropriate to establish a single set of rules between higher education institutions. The exploitation of intellectual property and successful innovation are virtually unimaginable without the personal involvement of the inventors who create intellectual works. In order to improve innovation performance, our creative-minded compatriots should be encouraged to share their innovative ideas and inventions with others in order to exploit them, and to grant companies licenses to use and exploit them. Workers should also be further encouraged and encouraged to share their intellectual works and ideas created in the framework of employment with their employers as much as possible. Dear Parliament, The proposal also proposes changes in the context of pension insurance and family support. The amendment of the Social Insurance Pensions Act is mainly linked to technical changes, partly related to changes to other legislation, which are more precise on the basis of the application of the law. It will thus, inter alia, make all pension-related procedures tax-free and ensure that the work rehabilitation fee and the development employment fee are taken into account in the calculation of pensions only in the future if it results in a higher amount of pension. The amendment to the law on compulsory health insurance will also allow ged to be granted to parents who continue their studies at day care, while their children will be placed in an institution providing day care. The amendment increases the monthly ceiling of the child benefit fee for equity from 70 per cent of the minimum wage to 70 per cent of the twice the minimum wage, which allows health insurance bodies to better differentiate between insured persons. The draft makes it more flexible to regulate the review of the maximum amount of ged, the minimum wage adjusted for the guaranteed minimum wage, so that it can be applied in the case of an interim amendment of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as well as further clarifications on the rules limiting the payment of baby care fees, childcare premiums, the rules for choosing between benefits and the eligibility of foster parents and grandparents for childcare fees. Dear Parliament, An important change in the amendment of the Family Support Act is that long-term sick persons who are entitled to higher family allowances under their own law, or persons with severe disabilities, will be able to work without an action restriction from 1 July this year, while maintaining the family allowance. [[20.00]] (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) So far, if they had a monthly income exceeding the minimum wage for at least three consecutive months, they have suspended the payment of their family allowance. As of 1 July of this year, they will not lose the amount of the family allowance in respect of their health in the case of monthly income exceeding the minimum wage. The draft also clarifies the provisions of the family allowance and schooling allowance in line with the restructuring of the vocational training system. On the basis of an amendment to the Law on the abolition of early retirement pensions, pre-age benefits and duties, the amount of service payable to mothers with four or more children entitled to the tax benefit should not be reduced by personal income tax. Dear Parliament, For this reason, I ask you to support the bill, because of what has already been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-28-141	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-04-28-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to say at the outset that the amendment of the law, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education, is in place. Law and a number of other related laws will be supported by the Fidesz fraction. Why is that? Because the amendment of the law on national higher education is a practical amendment, as it creates consistency between the health and educational relationships of the instructor in the clinical centre. As we have heard in the expozee, strengthening the competitiveness of higher education institutions is a priority, which will be supported by science and innovation parks. The amendment itself provides for the possibility for R &amp; D and innovation entrepreneurship to be carried out by institutional companies. We all know that the past year of Hungarian higher education has been defined by the coronal virus epidemic and its consequences. The announcement of an emergency, first laid down by a government decree, was then confirmed by Parliament, and during this period there were two times digital, absentee education in higher education. More precisely, the present time, because it is still going on, I myself am giving online lectures and practical lessons. I can also say to you, colleagues, that despite the challenges of the pandemic period, despite the difficulties, universities and higher education institutions have been exemplary, and students and educators have mastered the subject properly in digital education. Ladies and gentlemen, When it comes to the content of the proposal, the four laws on the strengthening of higher education and economic relations, namely industrial relations, as well as on the protection and exploitation of intellectual property in the context of the transition from higher education models, will be amended in line with each other and will not only establish predictability but also a single regulatory framework, and will also motivate higher education and industrial relations to be strengthened. Let me mention some of these four laws. One of them is the Higher Education Act, the 2011 CCIV. The amendment to the Act, to which I have already referred, of the possibility of providing for the possibility of carrying out research, development and innovation entrepreneurship activities by institutional companies, repeals the ban so far. This will increase the competitiveness of the institutions, its work in the field of R &amp; D and innovation and increase these performances. I would just like to point out one thing here that, from 1 January 2019, public research centres have been given full rights to intellectual property rights. In non-State institutions, the maintainer decides who to apply for the rights of intellectual property rights and the participation in the recovery undertaking. In order to ensure transparency, these issues should also be laid down in the IPRs annexed to the organizational and operational regulations of the higher education institution. I mention the other law, the 2014 LXXVI. Law on scientific research and development and innovation, which amends the rules of this Act on intellectual property management regulations and the legal fate of intellectual works created in higher education institutions, as well as the exploitation of enterprises, and should therefore apply to all higher education institutions in addition to budgetary research facilities. The existence of IPR policies and the harmonisation of the system of annual reporting at research sites constitute a guarantee element for the proper control of the budgetary resources spent on research activities. The third law is the XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants. It amends the existing text of law, as this law prohibits the establishment, even before the amendment, of a further relationship for work under which the use of methods, procedures, knowledge, know-how which constitute the business secret of the employer of the civil servant would take place. Since it is difficult to imagine a recovery undertaking or an institution or company where such knowledge would not be necessary, these restrictive provisions should be lifted for budgetary research centres. In conclusion, the 2019 CXXII on social security benefits and the coverage of these benefits. The provisions of law on this matter have been discussed in detail, and I do not wish to comment on it, just for a sentence, that the remuneration for the use and exploitation of intellectual property rights, in Hungarian the licence fee, does not constitute a contribution basis. Dear House, These amendments and the single regulation, I consider that it will bring forward in Hungary provisions on R &amp; D, technological innovation, strengthening higher education and industrial relations, competitiveness and virtually support cooperation in the university industry. With respect, I ask my fellow Members to support the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-28-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[20.10]]
u2021-04-28-144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal is a salad law, which deals with higher education in its name, but in its content it is only loosely linked to it. The proposal contains amendments to several laws, which are linked only in a small part. A number of amendments are technical and procedural in nature, complementing previous amendments. The proposal provides for, among other things, the possibility for research sites to acquire intellectual property rights free of restrictions on such rights. The proposal, as I mentioned earlier, is about higher education, but it has only a minor impact on its content. The first such amendment, which is also linked to the name of the proposal, is the resolution of legal situations for researchers. The main point of the proposal is that researchers working in budgetary research centres or higher education institutions can establish a relationship for further work. The explicit advantage of the proposal is that it lays down detailed provisions on the Transparency Code, thereby reducing the self-consciousness of any institution. This proposal is beneficial in this respect, although it would be justified to provide for a number of additional legislative provisions, such as the extension of conflicts of interest... For example, you need customizable glasses [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] the reasons for conflicts of interest should be limited in order to ensure that they can in all cases only represent the necessary and proportionate limitation of the undertaking of a second job. Similarly, forms of support linked to the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage may be increased in a manner that can be adapted after the increase in these benefits during the year. The rule that a person who is over 18 years of age, who is permanently ill or who has a serious disability may be entitled to work without an income limit in addition to a family allowance under his or her own law is eligible. Erzsébet also benefits from changing the rules on the processing of the Children Foundation for the Carpathian Basin, as it reduces the publicity of children's personal data. Despite all the positive elements, this regulation also serves the functioning of universities in the form of public foundations, but we MSZPs agree with this form, as mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-145	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-146	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, For the sake of the protocol, I would like to say that when the law on national higher education was amended, Jobbik could not even put forward a keynote speaker, so much national higher education is important to them. No one bothered to argue about it. But this is also true, for example, for a dialogue that lies to the green, who did not bother to give his opinion on renewable energies, for example, before the National Assembly. [[Gergely Arató: The next time there are so many of you, it will be harder for you to have a lead speaker for the night...]] So, as has been said, the aim of the bill before us is the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. amending law and a number of other related laws. When we talk about higher education, we have to say and acknowledge the results that have already been shown in recent years, as the young people, professionals, engineers, scientists, doctors and countless professionals who have contributed to the Hungarian economy taking on a success course after 2012, which also marked the 2019 record year, the record year before the coronal virus epidemic. Students from Hungarian universities contributed to this economic success series. However, last March, at the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic, Hungarian higher education was forced to switch to digital, absentee education. This has led to a number of uncomfortable, different, unusual situations for students and teachers working in higher education. Despite all this, both teachers and students quickly found answers to the challenges, and they were successful and exemplary in the circumstances, and thanks to them. Since 2010, the national Christian Democratic Government aims to build an efficient, competitive national higher education system, which is marketable, modern, XXI. It gives real knowledge and training in addition to the degree. The rapid shift in the global economy in recent years, the new digital industrial revolution ahead of us, has demonstrated the need for model change, modernisation of higher education, the development of a research funding system for universities, the renewal of the doctoral training system and the strengthening of dual higher education. This strategy is also served by the bill before us, which aims to strengthen the links between the higher education industry and to establish a single regulatory framework for the protection and exploitation of intellectual property in the context of the change in higher education models that further enhances predictability and motivation. The amendment creates the possibility for institutional companies to carry out research, development and innovation and enterprise activities by repealing the ban so far. Further improving the competitiveness and R &amp; D and innovation performance of higher education institutions is a priority objective, which will be important depositaries of K &amp; I parks. These parks can strengthen cooperation in the higher education industry and the use of university knowledge in a business environment as a catalyst. As far as companies are concerned, there is no reason to exclude higher education institutions from the acquisition of such holdings. In the context of the restructuring and modernisation of higher education, it has become necessary to amend, extend and clarify the legislation of intellectual works in order to protect scientific innovations, researchers, students and teachers. The amendment extends the current preferential licence fee category for intellectual property rights to the invention fee and to the remuneration of the employee in the case of other forms of industrial property protection. Since the most important thing from an innovation point of view is that these intellectual works also take place in economic life, there is no valid reason for distinction. In recent years, Hungarian higher education has achieved a number of valuable results internationally, but our goal is to ensure that Hungarian higher education and the young people involved are the winners of the future. This bill we are discussing is also another step towards higher education in the future, and the KDNP fraction will therefore support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-28-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-148	Thank you very much. Dear House, I am afraid that this time I will not have the opportunity to give the Secretary of State a way of a slightly heated outburst like the previous one, given that this bill does not contain any truly serious scoundrels, apart from the usual unthinkable, unprepared legislation and the laws of the Master Mekk. In other words, it is the practice that unfortunately the government is clearly unable to handle things together and separate things separately, so that legislative proposals such as this bill, which amends 15 different laws, between which there is sometimes a loose connection, sometimes there is no connection, only someone in your department thought it was a good idea to put this in here. My favourite in this regard is to change the range of companies managed by the defence by amending the law on state assets. I'd be very curious, but fortunately, it's not my area of expertise what happened to the other companies. There are four companies there today as a company managed by HM, and suddenly there's only one of them left. I don't know, to be honest, and I don't want to guess. One thing I'm sure of is that this doesn't have anything to do with higher education or pension rules or anything else that's in this bill. Frankly, it doesn't have anything to do with your wallet either, but someone put this amendment on their neck on a friendly basis when it's already been filed. As far as higher education is concerned, let me start by saying that some of the legislative changes here actually contain positive, positive changes; the linking of the research network and business-type research activities is basically a good idea to support. There is also the truth that the legislative framework here has so far contained too rigid frameworks. However, I would be excited to read, let's say, the position of the Rector's Conference on this issue, but, of course, this type of information, that there was social consultation, and what was the result of that, the government did not want to share with us as usual. [[20.20]] Other changes in higher education are basically related to previous legislation. It's about running after their money. The clinics were forgotten when the law on medical status was submitted, but better late than never, this is now being corrected and sorted out of the relationship between higher education and health. This really had to be done, maybe it would have been nice at the same time, then they would have been a little less nervous about the people involved. I will not go through all the legislative amendments, especially because my fellow Members have already done so on the pro-government and opposition side. What I would even like to point out as a positive point: we also consider changes to the Cities and the Ced rules to be promoted, good and lifelike. It is good to have fewer restrictions on these benefits, and we are all talking about both sides of Parliament, and now the government is finally doing something about it to have a choice, to make it more flexible for everyone to build their own lives, to find their place as parents at work or in their studies and at home in their families. Have greater flexibility, greater freedom. However, overall, I can say that the goulash soup alone is good food, and the cheesecake is good food, if we combine the two with each other, as is the case with this bill, then there is no guarantee that something can be eaten out of it. I do not have to say that the rule on the foundation in Miskolc and the other university foundation is not that they are now improving their own legislative errors, but that the basic legislation is also wrong. There's also a little red pepper here, my favorite is another achievement of controlled democracy, where the minister will allow you to be a voluntary organization. So Hungarian volunteering will be subject to a ministerial permit, and to whom the minister may authorise it may be voluntary. I would like to congratulate you on another nice step towards a large, centralised, dysfunctional state that has been built over the past 12 years. All in all, I can therefore say that there are a number of eligible elements in this bill, and we look forward to continuing the debate in Parliament and then to forming our position on this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-149	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/16000. In fact, in a very small part of the bill No.3 deals only with higher education and the inclusion of higher education innovation. This largely includes amendments to other legislation, and I must tell my fellow Member Mr Gergely Arató that the whole proposal for legislation is actually to correct previous errors. It not only corrects codification errors in trust foundations and university transformations, but it is trying to repair the errors in practice of complex, earlier, faulty systems, and to eliminate the problems of different social groups resulting from incorrect legislation, I imagine, in preparation for the election of 22. Of course, as a result of this, we can agree with these proposals in a very significant way, because it is true that the day-school mother, whose child is in kindergarten, can also have a baby in kindergarten. It is natural that the service fee is already part of the pension fund; it is natural for teachers who participate in the research to have the opportunity to realise the extra-relationship income arising from the research. These are all perfectly clear and predictable rules. I would just like to say that, in the first 20 years of the regime change, there has never been an obstacle for a university teacher to realize the income from university research, even through a private company. Your Janicsar system has created that... [[To the intervention of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] But your Janicsar system has created the need for different permissions for everyone to be able to achieve additional income realization in these research projects. This is not a new thing at all, but the legal system that you have transformed has closed the gates and you are forced to open this new regulation. [[For the intervention of Gergely Arató:]] You will see, my fellow Member, Gergely Arató, the rules of the first twenty years, and you will see them. I think that all the proposals that are here, except for this voluntary activity of public interest, I simply do not understand this. Volunteers are volunteers. So, if you want to do volunteer work, it's for the organisation or the organization that organizes these activities, that I want to help as a volunteer, and if you're smart enough to run it, you'll receive the volunteer. Why does it need to be inserted into such a ministerial licensing system? I don't understand. Most likely during the period of the coronal virus epidemic, many have volunteered, so I too, who would not have liked to have been admitted to an organization, even if they were doing cleaning activities, because they might not see what is there, even though I think that everyone who is applying for this job would do it honestly, wholeheartedly and in the interest of the community. Honestly, even I don't really know how I'm gonna vote on this. This is likely to come out at the last minute, because I do not, for example, wish to legitimise with my vote the amendment of the legislation on the conversion of universities already in this legislation. So it is possible, let alone possible, it is real that a number of elements, the service fee, the possibility of day school students being placed in kindergarten, are all perfectly sound rules, and the researchers' income on another title is entirely justified, but here are the proposals that actually represent the previous broken rule making, which the opposition did not vote for at the time. I also think that the proposer knew this precisely, that this is the way to bring in such a salad law, to have an element that a opposition does not simply say yes to. So, of course, this is what the government has put the opposition representatives in again. I think that if the aim is for forward-looking and fair proposals to be voted by everyone in this House, then it should not be smuggled into or among rules that are not eligible. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-04-28-151	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I do not see any other Members, but I would like to ask if someone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-152	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin by thanking you for the discussions, mostly calm and professional contributions, which was a pleasure to be able to hold this debate in this style. Thank you for the supporting contributions, although not all of these have been fully understood, I must also admit, but this may be due to the late hour. Mrs Kunhalmi's comment, if I understand it correctly, is that there is a good bill that she does not agree with. Of course, this is also an acceptable position, but I'm not sure I can understand it. If all of the elements of the bill are good, why is the entire bill not eligible? I really cannot appreciate Mr harvesto's words from the previous agenda other than praise, although I cannot fully agree with you on a number of sentences, of course, and I must reject them. After all, honourable Member, it is true that when we submit too many laws at once, your problem is that when we submit amendments to several laws in one law, that is your problem. I understand that if I have a hat, then the problem is, if I do not have a hat, then it is, but I could actually decide what you would like to do now: less law, to argue in a broader context, or to have a separate law for each amendment; although I think that this is mostly a question of beauty. [[20.30]] Which you brought up, as I understand it, is five cases. First, he tried to make some cynical remarks about the legislation on defence companies and the right, why the ITM is dealing with this and what it is looking for in this case. With great respect, I would like to inform the honourable Member that developments related to the military industry are dealt with, inter alia, by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. So it is perfectly all right that our wallet is dealing with this issue, because, you know, honourable Member, we are now living in a period of governance that the national civilian government considers important, on the one hand, our international commitments to NATO, and, on the other hand, the development of the military industry, at a pace that we have never seen before, and we want to do all this, honourable Member. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] In order to strengthen the Hungarian economy, the work of the Hungarian people also helps Hungary to have a powerful army, so that all Hungarians can be safe. We want to do this in a way that Hungarian businesses, Hungarian companies, Hungarian suppliers and Hungarian employees can benefit from, so our wallet is very concerned about this issue. Minister Palkovic himself oversees this very important area. So even though you're trying to make cynical remarks, the thing is, you're in a total misunderstanding. [[Gergely Harvestó: Where are the companies, talk about it!]] The other is that more freedom for researchers, well, that's what this proposal is about. Indeed, we are breaking down frameworks that have hindered or not helped enough the competitiveness of universities and our higher education institutions, and so with these amendments this will be possible. But if I understand it correctly, you agreed with that basically, as you agreed, that it is necessary to ensure legislation for clinics. The sentences he said were not entirely clear, but perhaps even in the case of family support, you could agree with this amendment, and by actually providing more resources for mothers on the one hand, and giving the opportunity and support in as many living situations as possible to enable the desired children to be born, and then to raise them, the mothers will receive all the support they need. [[Gergely Arató: I praised the government very much!]] I wasn't entirely sure you'd support this part, but now I understand that you complimented me, thank you for that. We've found a point of agreement that'll make the last few minutes happy. But if I understand correctly, you, as well as Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, have tried to make a sharp criticism of the amendment to the law relating to volunteering in the public interest. [[Gergely Harvesto: We did it!]] Which you now think you've succeeded, but within minutes you'll realize you've been completely mistaken. After all, honourable Member, if you had opened up the justification of the law, it would not have been such a great task, then it is perfectly clear what this is all about. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's written there. Gergely Harvesto: I've read it.]] In fact, this technical amendment creates consistency with civil law. And allow me to draw attention to the fact that, by the way, the amendment of the law on volunteering in the public interest or the registration of voluntary activity in the public interest is a non-new task, which has always worked that way. This is not a question, Madam honourable Member, because you yourself have indicated that you find this problematic, that you could not do voluntary work for anyone anywhere, but that it could be, could be, could then be, and we encourage everyone to do voluntary work; it is a voluntary activity in the public interest, that certain special additional rights are linked to it, that there can be appropriate organisations only receiving organisations, and that, by the way, the powers and opportunities to carry out activities covered by the law on voluntary activities of general interest are linked to all those who want to help society achieve a positive goal. I must draw Mr Arató's attention to the somewhat depressing fact that the Act on voluntary activity in the public interest was adopted by Parliament in 2005. [[Gergely Arató: Only then did the Minister approve the organizations.]] The Parliament adopted it in 2005, so it was then that this special solution was created. The regulation has always looked the same before, and now only the availability of the website where this notification can be made changes. I do not think that this is a profound, seriously outrageous, anti-democracy and anti-freedom amendment that prevents people from volunteering. A website will be transferred and two pieces of legislation will be brought into line. I hope that on this issue, too, I have been able to overcome the criticism of the Member and the Member, and that they will then be able to support the adoption of the legislation. I think I've answered all the questions that have come up, and all I have to do now is to encourage every member of the Parliament to support the bill, because it serves important purposes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2021-04-28-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, He asked for a five-minute technical break, Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the time frame at your disposal. [[János Schanda: Thank you very much, Mr President.]] (Recess: 20.37 20.45) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Bence Tordai)
u2021-04-28-154	Dear Parliament, I feel that our five minutes have passed, and the Secretary of State has arrived, so we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, C-66/18 of the Court of Justice of the European Union For the purpose of implementing the 2011 CCIV on national higher education, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/15909. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-28-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure that the Court of Justice of the European Union is C-66/18. Amendment of the Act on National Higher Education in order to implement its judgment No 1 on higher education. The National Higher Education Act requires all institutions operating in Hungary to carry out higher education activities in Hungary only with a licence issued by national authorities. This provision protects students of a higher education institution so that they can actually obtain a degree that meets their expectations. More than a dozen foreign higher education institutions operating in Hungary comply with the current Hungarian regulations, but the Soros University did not and did not strive to do so, instead launched an international campaign against Hungarian regulation. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: And against Hungary! Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The proper functioning of higher education institutions is a guarantee of trust in the country's education system, of the reputation of the higher education system, and of the diploma certifying the degree is the embodiment of this. We need real, functioning institutions, and not mailbox universities, as in the case of the Soros University. [[Gergely Harvesto: Let's not joke.]] Dear Parliament, The European Commission has brought an action for failure to fulfil obligations before the Court of Justice of the European Union against Hungary. The Opinion of the Advocate General in anticipation of the judgment also stated that, I quote, by virtue of its specific objective, CEU has not carried out education and research activities in the United States, either now or previously. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] However, the court upheld the action in its judgment of October last year. In order to implement the judgment, the Hungarian Government, by means of a bill before the House, initiates the amendment of the provisions of the National Higher Education Act concerning the functioning of foreign higher education institutions in Hungary. Dear Parliament, The bill proposes the transposition into the Hungarian legal order of legislation that has already been proven in another European country, and, on the basis of Bavarian law, it contains different rules on the functioning in Hungary of publicly recognised foreign higher education institutions established in a State party to the Treaty on the European Economic Area and foreign higher education institutions established in a State not party to the Treaty on the European Economic Area. Building on the results of international comparative studies, the 2006 Bavarian Higher Education Act is set at 86. The Parliament may, by its decision, include it in the domestic law, by translating and reflecting the terms of the section on the pursuit of higher education activities. I respectfully inform the Parliament that the Government has informed the European Commission of the content of the proposal, which has not raised any objections. Since the provisions have been in force in other Member States for years, they mean the adoption of legislation not contested by EU bodies and institutions, the relevant section of the Higher Education Act is likely to pass all further tests. Dear Parliament, According to the bill, a higher education institution established in a non-EEA State may pursue a training activity in Hungary if the training provided in Hungary is equivalent to the training of Hungarian higher education institutions; the admission requirements of the training provided by it in Hungary can be met with the admission requirements of a publicly recognised higher education institution providing training equivalent to that of the institution; it is included in the international contract concluded by the Government of Hungary and the Government of the State in which the foreign higher education institution is established on the equivalence of higher education qualifications and degrees; and the right of the higher education institution to training activities is authorised by the Education Office on request. In view of the fact that the foreign higher education institution is responsible for its training activities in Hungary, the amendment makes it clear that, in the case of a foreign higher education institution established in a non-EEA Member State, the rules of the State of establishment of the institution apply to the pursuit of the training activities of the higher education institution, the teaching and research work carried out in the institution and its monitoring. [[20.50]] For the sake of a clear application of law, the law states that diplomas and degrees recognised in the State where the higher education institution is established may be granted. According to the bill, a nationally recognised foreign higher education institution established in the EEA State may carry out training activities in Hungary, if the training which it intends to pursue in Hungary and the diploma issued with regard to it constitute a course giving a state-recognized degree in higher education in the EEA State in which it is established, and the entitlement of the higher education institution to the training activity giving the diploma is determined by the Education Office on request. Dear Parliament, With the adoption of the bill before you, more stringent requirements than the legislation that has allowed so far, based on the Bavarian model in the forefront of European higher education, may enter into force in Hungary. Universities in our country are still meeting the precise expectations, or they may be able to meet them without any particular difficulties. The amendment of the legislation does not, of course, exempt the Soros University from complying with the Hungarian laws which apply equally to everyone. At ideological pressure, we will not endanger the quality of Hungarian higher education. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-28-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-157	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The purpose of the amendment is, as we have heard, the Court of Justice of the European Union v. Hungary higher education C-66/18. implementing its decision, its judgment, to which we would like to regulate the provisions on the functioning of foreign higher education institutions on the basis of German law following a cross-border comparison. I would like to point out, first of all, that the Fidesz faction supports this regulation and supports the submission, all the more so, because in 2017, when the National Assembly tabled an amendment to the Higher Education Act, it changed national higher education in two places four years ago, because it noticed that everything was wrong with the operation of foreign higher education institutions in Hungary, and there were anomalies. I was the lead speaker then, and after a long debate, the result was that all foreign higher education institutions operating in Hungary must comply with the rules, and the changed rules apply equally to everyone. Its essence was, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, that according to the changed rules, a foreign higher education institution can operate in Hungary if an international contract was concluded between the Hungarian Government and the government of the State of the seat of the foreign institution, and the foreign higher education institution is in its country of establishment and I would actually stress that word there: it is a state-renowned higher education institution that actually carries out higher education training. Well, CEU wasn't like that. He has not completed actual higher education at his place of establishment. That's why we amended the Higher Education Act. Shortly after the amendment, the European Commission brought an action before the European Court of Justice in February 2018. According to the Commission, by amending the Higher Education Act, Hungary has violated its obligations towards the European Union and is in breach of the provisions on the freedom of scientific life, the freedom of establishment of higher education institutions and the freedom of business as set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union. After a long time, the judgment came in October 2020 and the Hungarian Government sent a letter of reply to the Commission on 17 December 2020 indicating its commitment to amend the Higher Education Act, as set out in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We only want to have the same conditions, so I would like to underline and state that the Government has made this declaration with the intention of starting the amendment here in Parliament to bring the Bavarian legislation into Hungarian legislation without any change, and in this connection we will send the existing Bavarian legislative provisions to the Commission. The Commission is also looking forward to this, as on 12 April this year it called on the Hungarian Government to do so. That is what we will do, which is why the amendment is now in front of us. Dear House, I would like to say two sentences on the history of the debate in 2017. As the Secretary of State has said, everyone must follow the rules, even the Soros University, the CEU. CEU, founded in 1995 under Gábor Fodor's Ministry, is not the same as the Central European University, which was established in 2004. We wanted to eliminate this anomaly, put things right, but, as we have heard, a campaign was launched against Hungary, not just against the Hungarian government, but against all of us, that we want to drive the CEU away. [[21.00]] No, we were talking about, and we are talking about, a level playing field and we want to create the same conditions for all higher education institutions. This will come out now, because if we take over Bavarian regulation, and that is the point of this amendment, we are eager to see what kind of attacks Hungary will face. We are at the forefront of this, and it cannot be a blackmail instrument for the withdrawal of EU funds, because then we find such points in other countries, not only in the case of Bavarian Higher Education Act, but also in the case of Spanish legislation, according to the Czech Higher Education Act and Slovak law. So they should be taken into account in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe there's one more thing I want to tell you. The aim of the proposal is therefore not a political debate, but that foreign universities, which give a diploma in Hungary, must meet the conditions. Higher education institutions established in a non-EEA State may, as we have heard, carry on training activities giving a diploma in Hungary if the degree they issue can be recognised in Hungary, the admission requirements of the training they provide in Hungary can be met by the admission requirements of a publicly recognised higher education institution providing training equivalent to that of the institution, included in the international contract on the equivalence of higher education qualifications and degrees concluded by the Government of Hungary and the Government of the State in which the foreign higher education institution is established, and the entitlement of the higher education institution to the training activity is authorised by the Education Office on request. I would like to conclude once again, in this House, that we want the amendment to apply the same conditions to foreign higher education institutions that are training in Hungary, and we are committed to achieving this amendment by taking over Bavarian law and Bavarian relations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-28-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Stummer, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, We also sometimes see that at least the Orbán government follows European standards on paper in something. This may, of course, only be because the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union obliges you to modify the lex CEU-famous sections of the Higher Education Act. Even before they begin to take place, although they will, on behalf of Jobbik, I repeat that it was unacceptable for us to accept that, as a result of lex CEU, CEU's substantive activity is no longer carried out in Budapest because of its inability to do so, because in a normally functioning civil democracy, where there is a place for debate on knowledge and European standards, it is not acceptable for us to interfere with the functioning of a high-quality higher education institution just because we disagree with George Soros's social view of open society. We don't agree with him either, but we can't agree with your instruments. It is possible, of course, that they are actually happy with this EU court decision, because after this legislative amendment, they can begin to advertise that the establishment of Fudan's Budapest campus, a Chinese university based on the location of a student city that has been planned for many years, is perfectly in line with European standards. I'll tell you this is not the case, and we're going to let you know that if CEU was considered a concern, then why is Fudan not considered a concern, while, in its statutes, it openly believes in the Communist idea and the Chinese Communist Party, and also considers the dissemination of these ideas desirable. Fudan goes beyond the debates on political ideas, because it is simply a threat to Hungary and the Hungarian university world. First of all, we initiated the hearing of Minister Palkovics on the National Security Committee for a reason. The official invitation was sent to him today, so we are expecting Minister with great respect next Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. in the Office of the National Security Committee. We initiated the hearing of the minister on the Chinese university case for a reason, after an interview with so many people about the national security risk that he didn't know anything about secret service matters. We, as well as the competent national security services, such as intelligence and counterintelligence, consider it important to inform the minister when he deals with Fudan. If not, you would know that if a university is under the control of the Chinese Communist Party Centre, starts diplomatic training in Budapest, develops contact nets that are uncontrollable from a national security point of view, it is a very serious intelligence activity. And that's what Fudan University is like. The fact that they want to build a Chinese university with Chinese workers on Chinese credit proves that Fidesz sells out the country and makes the Hungarian university world impossible, because with the background and the resources they put behind Fudan from China, there is no way to compete. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that the university rankings, in which Fudan is truly prominent, typically do not take into account the background of the authoritarian state behind a particular institution or the degree of autonomy of the university. To study this, I would like to draw your attention to the report by my fellow Member, Mr Brenner Koloman, to the Council of Europe on university autonomy by the original keynote speaker on this item, on European standards. In conclusion, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary respects and welcomes the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union as the only right centre folk party and supports the subsequent amendment of the law, but we call to the attention of the Fidesz gentlemen and ladies that in 2022 we will review all their anti-scientific and anti-national actions. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2021-04-28-160	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, It is good to see that, although Jobbik did not respect Parliament when amending the previous law on national higher education, the Soros University is immediately on their guard and honourable Members come in to protect the Soros University. [[János Stummer: Oh, I can't believe it!]] I will read a sentence, honourable Member Stummer: The Jobbik has rejected György Soros' activity and has consistently been opposed to it since its establishment. This was said by your mentor Gábor Vona in 2017. So since the birth of Jobbik, you've been facing George Soros. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case, Gábor Vona is not here, nor is Jobbik against György Soros' ideology and George Soros's plans. But the honourable ladies and gentlemen have marched to defend the Soros University, while all we say is that the laws apply to everyone. Why are you arguing, honourable Members and gentlemen, that the laws apply to everyone? We remember that György Soros asked Bálint Magyar, your Minister of Education, for privileges not to be subject to certain laws, and although he acknowledged that it caused redundancy, do not repeal lex CEU at that time. György Soros personally requested this from Hungarian Bálint. He also noted that, by the way, a gentleman named István Teplán will deliver this letter, who has obviously been attached to Jobbik with a thousand threads ever since. In Hungary, the laws must be respected by everyone. As in Hungary, court judgments must also be carried out, so we implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, taking over Bavarian legislation in its content and structure. According to the Bavarian Higher Education Act, the Bavarian higher education body generally only recognises institutions registered in the territory of the province either in Germany or in an EEA Member State. Taking over Bavarian legislation, which is very similar to Spanish, Czech and Slovak legislation, we can implement the original objective of the regulation adopted in 2017 in a Europe-wide and wide-ranging manner, meeting all European and international legal standards. [[21.10]] The bill will not affect the functioning of non-state universities with accreditation in Hungary, nor will it affect the functioning of the Central European University, which was established in 2004, but you will try to bring these two together on a regular basis. Hungary continues to welcome any university coming from anywhere in the world, which has a real educational activity, which complies with the laws, and does not only operate as a diploma factory. In Hungary, however, there are many foreign universities currently operating without any problems and without any conflict, which have a licence from the Education Office at all times and can be monitored on the website of the Education Office. For example, McDaniel College, the US Boston University, has been operating in Hungary, and otherwise the Chinese University of Fudan has been operating for years. The congressman hasn't bothered before, but suddenly it's a political issue. I think László Palkovics on the Cultural Committee will have to report on the activity at Fudan University. You can't attack the professionalism of Fudan University, the quality of education there, so you're trying to create a pseudo-national security issue. But, Congressman, you didn't become chairman of the National Security Committee yesterday, Fudan University has been in Hungary for years, and you're finishing your first master's degree with the University of Economics. [[János Stummer: That's right!]] The first students will graduate from Fudan University in Hungary. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But there is no campus! János Stummer: And the services examined... the president is ringing.]] Honourable Congressman, You guys usually wash it against the student town case, because you just have a question or-or-or-or a question. The congressman has already said that the Fudan University, which is built in the place of the student city, is now in place. Well, the student town will also be built, Your Honour. All you can think about is whether or not. [[Gergely Harvesto: In one place...]] We believe that several successful projects can exist, and several projects can be successful alongside each other, which otherwise serve the eradication and resuscitation of a rust zone. I don't know, you've been there lately, fellow Members, looking at the area you're looking at and what that could be. You always confront projects: either a student town or a Fudan University; or an athletic world championship, or a Fudan University. It's always the confrontation that works according to the old socialist-liberal principle, but these projects can also exist side by side, strengthening each other. [[Gergely Harvesto: Over each other!]] As is otherwise the case in Hungary, there is an American, Chinese [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Go KDNP! Long live the Communist Party! The president's ringing the bell.]] , french, british. I will listen to you, honourable Member, as well...
u2021-04-28-162	Congresswoman! You will also have the opportunity to speak. I ask you to respect each other's opinions.
u2021-04-28-163	I am very curious about the thoughts of the congresswoman, as she comes to the Parliament every few months to participate in the work of the Parliament, which is, by the way, her workplace, so I will be fully interested in listening to her. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're not my boss! Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] So German, French, American, English, Chinese and many international, foreign universities still operate in Hungary, only the difference, honourable ladies and gentlemen, is that they comply with the laws; this was somehow not intended by the Soros University, and not only did it fail, it did not intend to. By the way, Hungary has not only become an increasingly popular educational site among foreign universities in recent years, but also among foreign students. The number of foreign students in Hungarian higher education has also increased greatly: compared to 2013, the number of foreign students who completed higher education in Hungary has increased by 65 percent. At the same time the international cooperation of the Hungarian universities also increased and improved significantly, for example, the Confucius Institute in Szeged was not so loud as the Chinese university. Do you know who the president of the Confucius Institute in Szeged is? István Ujhelyi Socialist MEP. Why didn't you subpoena him to the National Security Committee, Congressman Stummer, in such a big voice? Because that doesn't make a political genre, a political pamphlet, like Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Unfortunately, the Member has not said a word about the Confucius Institute, nor has Fudan University been operating in Hungary for many years, and they are actually trying to deny that it is the 34th best university in the world. We think that if I could say that anyone from the world's first 50 or even 100 best universities would like to come to Hungary, we need to help, support, cooperate with it, whether from the north, from the south, from the east or from the west. I think the University of Fudan is planning engineering, economic and later medical training in Hungary. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what an ideology a degree in mechanical engineering has. It has technological and scientific value from the 34th best university in the world. By the way, I would add that Fudan University is one of the fastest-growing universities in the world, because according to the 2011 and 2012 rankings, it was only 90th. And by the way, the University of Fudan has a cooperation project with a number of Western universities, honourable Member, including those who, by the way, belong to our federal system, NATO, I will only keep it quietly. The adoption of Bavarian legislation on the functioning of foreign universities in Hungary without any change, I think, is a national interest, which as a European standard is a well-functioning regulation, and we do not have to give up the original objectives of the regulation adopted here in the Hungarian Parliament in 2017. I think that we should not confront universities, but that the laws apply to everyone, and that the laws must be followed by everyone. You should encourage your allies to abide by the law. How interesting that the Minister of Education Bálint Magyar, which exempts from legal requirements and treats CEU as an exception, has now suddenly received a well-paying job! Well, of course, at the CEU, the so-called Institute of Democracy from the George Soros democracy, thank you very much, we do not ask. Well, now Bálint Magyar landed there, as he had previously given George Soros an exemption from the law. That's how your network works, ladies and gentlemen of Congress. I am pleased that at this late hour on Wednesday evening, you have marched here to defend the Soros University, but rather to encourage Hungarian universities, as well as foreign actors, to comply with Hungarian regulations, to comply with the laws. I think that you have no problem with Bavarian regulation, and you must vote in favour of Bavarian regulation, because it has been a regulation that has been part of the European norm for a long time. There are many examples, I said, from Spain, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and also from Bavaria. So, if you consider European standards important, you will, of course, vote in favour of this law. We will do so, the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[János Schanda applauds.]]
u2021-04-28-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-28-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Members of Parliament, Despite the long title of the proposal before Parliament, it is extremely simple to summarize, because this proposal is a confession, a admission that the government has illegally pursued the CEU from Hungary for political reasons. In addition, unlawfulness violates a multi-stage international convention and EU law, and even, on the basis of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the Union, it is contrary to the Hungarian Basic Law. Freedom of scientific life is also included in the Fundamental Law, Article X (paragraph 1), which, in the light of the opinion of the Court of Justice of the Union, has been violated by the expulsion of the CEU. Obviously, there may be differences in opinion, and the court may rank the freedom of scientific research higher than the Hungarian government; we obviously agree with the Court of Justice of the Union, because freedom of science and education must or should be a priority. The amendment to the Higher Education Act, in addition to the freedom of science, has violated the freedom to provide establishment and services, the EU Directive on services in the internal market, and the EU provisions on freedom of business. At this point, it is worth reviewing exactly how the CEU was driven away. The proposal, famous as lex CEU, was submitted on 28 March 2017 and voted on 4 April 2017, and the Act was signed by President János Áder on 10 April. Although, at first glance, lex CEU seemed to be a mandatory rule for all foreign universities, many of the rules only affected CEU from foreign universities already in Hungary. At the time of the adoption of the Act, 24 foreign universities were authorised to operate, but only CEU was subject to new requirements, as the other 24 universities were already in line with them. So you can see the exclusivity here. The CEU was the best university in Hungary in the international rankings, including the best 200 universities in the world, and in some of the best 50 universities in the world. In addition, CEU's library has provided outstanding services, often offering publications that were not available at other universities in Hungary. Let us look at exactly what the European Court of Justice has decided. [[21.20]] The fundamental element of this is that the government has not been able to defend its own position, and cannot present any substantive legal defence other than political arguments. These political arguments are being advocated at the moment. First of all, we have an international obligation under the GATS Convention. This obligation states that we should provide national benefits in the field of higher education services. This means that, in the context of higher education institutions, service providers of the other States which are parties to the contract, in this case universities, should be treated at least as well as their own institutions. Hungary has made a commitment to this, and it has not been forced upon us, and we have decided to take on this commitment. The Court examined the obligation to conclude an international contract with universities. Here the Court of Justice did not object to such an obligation, but to the fact that the discretionary decision of the Hungarian authorities was binding on it. This means that there is no limit, even because of purely political personal grievances, a university can be denied access. This is obviously unacceptable and unsuitable and does not meet the national assessment requirement that we have otherwise agreed to. In this broader context, the government also referred to the protection of public order as a possible exemption from the obligation, but the government was unable to demonstrate the existence of a real and sufficiently serious threat to the fundamental interests of Hungarian society. The only thing the government has succeeded in proving is that the whole regulation was born purely and clearly on the basis of their political interests. That is also stated in the judgment. Similar concerns were raised by the Court of Justice with regard to the requirement to provide training in the country of origin for a university arriving here. This also violates international and EU legislation at the same time. Once again, the primary problem was that the government simply could not prove what its quality assurance role might be, what the aim was behind the regulation. The Court itself notes that the quality of the training provided in the country of origin does not determine the quality of the training provided in Hungary, so this is in itself a poor benchmark. Finally, the Court held that lex CEU is a violation of the freedom of scientific research and education by destroying the institutional framework in which these activities are carried out. To sum up, therefore, what has been said so far: the government has driven the CEU away from Hungary because of its own arbitrary political games, and they now have a paper on this. The fact that they were unable to demonstrate the need for regulation shows that only political preparatory work was carried out when lex CEU was created. Of course, government politicians and close-to-government analysts could not fail to explain, they accused the Court of Justice of the Union of bias and double standards, pointing out, pointing to Bavaria that there is exactly such regulation as the lex CEU. However, this is not the case, but the regulation designed solely to make a specific university impossible, declaring the authorisation of training a purely political decision is nowhere else in Europe. The current rules of the proposal before us, which replace lex CEU, are indeed similar to the legislation of other states, such as the Bavarian rules mentioned earlier. Despite the Court's decision, the proposal cannot be considered to have been submitted in time, since almost seven months have passed since the Court's decision. What is a much bigger problem is that CEU, which was Hungary's most prestigious university, will never come back to Hungary again. Hungarian students thus fall away from a higher education institution that was outstanding worldwide. CEU stated at the time of the decision of the Court that CEU will remain in Austria, a country that respects the fundamental principles of academic freedom. We maintain our research activity in Budapest, but we will not undertake educational tasks. We will never leave the city, but we will no longer submit to the political whims of a man and his system. Austria, which in many respects is considered a laboratory by both the Prime Minister and his government. Therefore, the proposal, although seemingly trying to remedy previous irregularities, does not, in fact, conflict with the real political objective of Viktor Orbán and his government. The result does not change: a high-quality university has been driven away from Hungary and many Hungarian students have been deprived of the opportunity to learn in this institution. All this was done out of premeditated, depraved political intent. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-166	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-167	Thank you very much. I was looking forward to this agenda with great interest, because I was wondering which way the Secretary of State would choose, if he would try to treat it as a technical, technical case, or if he would agree to this story. Thank you for doing this, and so it doesn't seem like we're dragging cases here that may or may not be closely or literally part of the bill. Mr. Secretary, you're a little out of line, I think, because you're saying to the CEU that it's a mailbox university, that's a baroque exaggeration. [[Nacsa Lawrence: in America!]] If you walk to Nádor Street and October 6th, it's a pretty big mailbox, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] And we wouldn't say 1,600 students or 300 instructors to the mailbox university. And I understand how Central European University and CEU play with names and legal constructs, but to be honest, it's just a game, it doesn't change the fact that it was a truly existing university operating in accordance with the laws in force. 'Cause that's a mean accusation, and I'm gonna have to decline it for the sake of the truth when you say that because everyone has to abide by the law. The Soros University, the CEU and the Central European University operated in accordance with Hungarian law, until you directly changed the legislation so that you could not comply with it. They have made a law which has all its paragraphs, all its legislative references, been drawn up so that anyone would otherwise be able to comply with it, only the CEU and the Central European University would not be able to comply with it. What I can tell you is that I understand, but at least don't make the other person look like an infringer when, by the way, you're the ones who abused the law, you're the ones who made a law tailored to an institution, just to get the CEU out of the way. We know why, it doesn't take much imagination: the idea of an open society, the idea of democracy, the idea of freedom, the kind of thought that was very good for Fidesz at the time when we were a starting party, we talked about Viktor Orbán in 89 and 88, which they loved very much at the time, and they were very happy to support the Soros organisations. I'm sorry, but Congressman Nacsa will have the right to say that this is not true for the KDNP at that time. Indeed, this is not true for the KDNP at that time, but the KDNP at that time would not have contracted to the vassal of Fidesz and would not have argued the representatives of the historical KDNP at that time in addition to the Chinese communist university in Parliament. I must say, dear fellow Members, that we understand that this was a political intention. You only need freedom of thought, you need university autonomy, you need freedom of conscience as long as it serves your government's goals. It's just that it's not the norm, it's not the university autonomy. University autonomy is about having the right and the means to make opinions that you do not like; you have the right to deal with things in the spirit of freedom of research that you do not want to deal with; you have the right to talk to the public about things you do not want to hear. This is also part of research and university autonomy. Now, that's why the CEU had no place in Hungary, in your Hungary. That is why they have introduced a personalised or institutionalised law, which is why they have made legislation that you knew from the beginning, from the very beginning, that it contradicts the Fundamental Law, that it contradicts the European university charter, that it contradicts EU law, that it contradicts Hungary's international obligations. [[21.30]] They just didn't care, because the political goal was more important, it was more important to drive this university away anyway, and I say it again, and it is particularly vile that they pretend that the CEU didn't want to operate legally. You have put in place rules that have been designed directly to prevent CEU from meeting them. I have to say, what did they do after that? They were stalling. Well, it is worth reading the judgment in Curia, I do not know how many of my fellow Members have done it - the judgment of the European Court of Justice - is very, very instructive. The Hungarian Government has done everything: the action is invalid because the Commission is malicious, the action is invalid because it does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. I think it even included that the lawsuit was invalid because they didn't print it on the right paper, or because they didn't fold the envelope in the right direction, or lick the edge of the stamp. I have to tell you that you've done everything you can. They knew it was a lost cause. They knew that this legislation did not comply with any EU norm. The Venice Commission has said that your former allies in the European Parliament, the People's Party, have said that everyone has made it clear that this is an unacceptable procedure. But that wasn't the point. The aim was to unravel it as long as the Central European University, the CEU, wanted to work, because they have responsibility for their students, they have responsibility for the training, they leave Hungary for the reputation of the institution, and they expected this one. They were still a little tricky, didn't they, the letter arrived in October, then a letter was written in December that, wow, there was a judgment in October, and now we're really thinking that maybe we should do something about it. That Bavarian law didn't exist in the Ministry of Education until then, but the Ministry of Education, where it is, old times, didn't have the national, I don't know what innovation and other ministries didn't find it, oops, when, well, in spring, when it turned out that your great Chinese friends would come to a great Chinese university. Then it turned out that Fudan University was coming, then suddenly we had Bavarian legislation. Oh, it's interesting, we've suddenly found a solution to how foreign universities work. Isn't Fudan University just right for him? What a surprise. I have to tell you, I could say that it's a transparent act, but I don't want to offend the charades either, I would say that it's a transparent hypocrisy that's going on in this case. I'm not bringing it here, but it's an additional question, that any law can highlight a paragraph without any context, to mean the opposite of what it otherwise means in the legal system and within the law where it is originally. (a) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) §8 has been removed, there are still a number of paragraphs in that law, at least 85, of course these paragraphs apply together with them. So I have to tell you briefly that this legislative skill is only about us not having the CEU, because it says that it is an open society, and it talks about unpleasant things and democracy; we need the University of Fudan, while it is in its charter that it is based on Marxism-Leninism, and it is led by the Chinese Communist Party, but it is not a problem, this university is very much needed, it creates its legal potential, and everything else is just misconception and ground-floor, poor legalism. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-28-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-169	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To a certain extent, this bill seeks to show that it is refuting the former provisions, called lex CEU, which are contrary to international treaties, which the European Court of Justice has challenged and ordered the Hungarian Government in its judgment to re-regulate the possibility of foreign universities operating in Hungary. It is stated in this justification that Bavarian national legislation has been based on it as an example, in its way or according to its principles, on conditions for the establishment of foreign universities in Hungary, and that the Commission has allegedly written to the European Commission to examine from all aspects that this new regulation will meet their needs, the Commission has not yet raised any objections to this. But if the aim and title of this bill are to implement the judgment of the European Court of Justice with this proposal, i.e. to make amendments to the Higher Education Act according to its principles, then we must examine the principles of the Curia's judgment. And here's what you're saying. Hungary, since it is a partner in the framework of the World Trade Organisation, is the WTO, therefore its system of principle and the GATS Convention must comply with national treatment when setting up a system of rules on higher education. At the same time, the Curia called for the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights in its decision, when it brought the freedom of scientific life, the freedom to set up a higher education institution, the freedom of enterprise and the freedom of establishment into its decision as a basic principle. Here's the problem. Since Hungary is a member of the WTO, therefore, if it establishes this new set of rules exclusively for Member States other than EEA Member States, it will again violate WTO rules because the WTO system has contracting partners outside EEA Member States. So it is possible that, for political reasons and because we have an old diplomatic relationship with Germany, and also in the European People's Party, members of the German party family protected Fidesz before leaving, in order to avoid exclusion, so I believe that Germany's authority in the European Union is so high that if Hungary introduces a similar regulation, then it will not be blazed again in the European Court of Justice, I accept that. But I am a lawyer, and if the title of a bill is to implement the requirements of a judgment, then it is essential to analyse what is in this judgment. He says it's number one. § (1) of the new proposal, point (a) requires a bilateral international contract, with which the problem is that if a country outside the EEA Member State expects a bilateral international contract to establish a university in Hungary, it again violates the principles of the establishment of a higher education institution to be founded by the WTO countries, which is included in the Curia's judgment. Then point (b) says that the university must have an equivalent degree or issue it under its domestic law, as it will issue in Hungary, or it will have to issue a degree equivalent to the Hungarian higher education. My only problem with that is who's gonna decide the equivalence. What's the standard? Then shouldn't it be done to build a system of principles on a scientific basis, a guiding system and a system of thinking that is typical of some kind of higher education, so that, let's say, a Member of Parliament can determine what equivalence is? I cannot go either, my fellow Members and Deputy Minister, on the issue of Fudan University. I cannot go because when the lex CEU was presented and the first opposition or opposition took place, you no longer remember, but my memory is good enough, the first fidesz reaction was that it was not about the CEU. Remember, fellow Members? This was the first official government declaration that it was not about CEU, but simply thought that it was time to define the legal framework for the existence of foreign universities here, and they did not want any branch university to grant a degree, such as ELTE or Corvinus, and nothing, but the bill itself has nothing to do with the fact that the CEU now operates here, it does not work. [[21.40]] The other issue, as my colleague Gergely Arató said, was that the condition was precisely that a piece of foreign university could not comply with one point, there was only one point in which it could not comply with the new regulation. And he stands up, Deputy Minister, and the starting point of his expo is that we wanted to drive the CEU out of Hungary, so we have made this rule, and now, who is speaking for that that was not good and that is not good, he wants George Soros to come back to Hungary. Well, why don't you guys take a look back at your very first statements? ! Have you thought about the loss of face, the fact that they said that there was no CEU, they protested when half the world was already raised so that they wouldn't, and now confess to the new legislative proposal that he wanted to clean out CEU from here, and how awesome it is, because we were able to clean up the ultraliberal George Soros, but the Fudan University, maintained and led by the Chinese Communist Party, came to campusost and everything! I have just shown Mr Vice Minister, my fellow Members, to open up the Fudan University website, and when the picture arrives, what do you think is the first thing you see in this picture that keeps running around and into a circle on the screen? Red flag with sickle and hammer! This is the first image on the Fudan University website. Well, let's think about why our mothers, fathers, grandmothers, grandfathers have fought to get Communism out of our country, let's get it over with, because, besides Nazism, it's the most horrible system in which no one wants to live, where the appearance of equality can make people's lives impossible and kill without any reason! I do not want any organization operating in Hungary with a principle system, especially no university, where young people can be poisoned with that terrible ideology, and they can be believed that it is okay. So what are you going to do? They say it's the 34th best university in the world, and there will be no ideological education here, while the first element of their website is the red flag and the sickle hammer. I see you're all opening up the website, so I guess you've been able to make sure of what I see myself. So we're talking about a Western university coming now, can't we? ! But I'll give you an example. This could happen any day. A lot of our Hungarian compatriots defected from Hungary to 45 until the 1970s, so they called it, left the country and tried luck around the world. Many of them have become rich. Imagine that a fellow countryman who had emigrated to the United States, who had acquired a wealth of great value, dies and his will contains the following: I would like to give Hungary, my country, a gift, so I ask that my heirs set up a foundation in the United States, and the foundation's task is to set up a university for engineering in Hungary, because I have received the knowledge of engineering in Hungary that I was able to become a billionaire in the United States. Is that a nice thing? Is that fair? Yeah. Would we like that? Yeah. Based on this legislation, this cannot be created, because first of all in the United States a foundation there does not have a university, that foundation wants to set up a university here, which is why it lacks a university at home. Right? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Just listen. How do we know because he says he has to give an equivalent degree... Well, it hasn't happened yet, because he wants to create it here. He will present to the Office the topic of education, the promotional system, the recruitment system, so in professional and scientific terms and according to the principle of higher education, everything is fine, as you want to do here, and on this basis he cannot do it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] You can't do it! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I believe you believe he's making you believe he can do it, but he can't. I would just like to ask you, because there are hardly any people in this Parliament who have not gone to university, we remember exactly the wonderful amount of knowledge that we could get there, the spirituality that we had received, and don't say that I was under the socialist system of university, because believe me, I had a more democratic education system than what I have today, I had academic teachers, and neither of them taught socialism nor the principles of socialism for a minute, they refused to teach the subjects, neither the socpg, nor the socialist state theory. We passed the exam on paper; we never took the exam. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] So I want to say that I had a democratic education, but that food, the spiritual food that we can get from the university, cannot be associated with such sick ideologies, with an untraceable, unexplorable and unknowable relationship system in Hungary, as an institution maintained by a Chinese Communist Party. If, according to your lecture, today, they confessed to sending CEU out of Hungary because it's too liberal, because it's too open to society, and their taste is met by a communist university? From one extreme to another extreme! ? Can't we just focus on one thing, one thing? It means that the future generation must have all the knowledge to make this country competitive. Let us love them, embrace them, pour the highest level of knowledge into their heads, so that they can bow to them wherever they go in the world, because they are Hungarians and because they have great knowledge. We all know that our blood is very mixed, there are hardly any original Hungarians, because there are so many kinds of people mixed here, thanks to this our spiritual abilities, our creativity, which is in our hands, the world-class, the simplest man has abilities that they wonder when they get out of the country, and there they have to account for their abilities and knowledge. Let's see how many Hungarians we can look with pride at how they brought our news! Then let us not poison Hungarian public life and the university world with such stylish legislative proposals and such a stylish approach, which today struck Hungarian university freedom both with lex CEU and with this Fudan university story! I wish to stress that I have never agreed with George Soros's system of principles. Never! But the question was not that we agreed with someone in ideology, but the question was that an existing institution, which was accepted for decades by the previous Orbán government, and even the leading politicians were studying at this university, György Soros financed their foreign education, so they should have practically kissed their footprints by teaching these people English, because otherwise they wouldn't have been able to learn a foreign language if they hadn't come to Oxford and there and there, so let's consider this: they didn't learn English for two thousand forints an hour at the language teacher, but there in an authentic language environment, thanks to George Soros. So, I never agreed, I don't like that principle, but a functioning institution couldn't be eliminated in this way, because it disrupted trust in the legal system. A hundred words have one end: I will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal, because somehow this court judgment must be reclaimed. All I'm asking of you is that you don't support such Fudan universities. Thank you very much. [[János Stummer and János Bencsik applaud.]]
u2021-04-28-170	Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Madam Speaker. [[21.50]]
u2021-04-28-171	Spoštovani gospod Predsednik, Zbor Cenjeni! Hvala za besedo, gospod predsednik. Prav prisrňo pozdravljam vse Poslanke in Poslance, čeprav jih več ni veliko v tej pozni uri v dvorani zasedovanja Parlamenta. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen of this House with respect, although at this late hour, there are only a few of us in Parliament's Chamber. As a spokesperson appointed by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I will give you a brief summary of the T/1590 in front of us. Against the background of bill No 1. As a reason for the request for connection, we stated that all foreign university or other higher education courses in Hungary or Hungary affect our young people belonging to the ethnic communities of Hungary, who are free to choose from training institutions that meet their abilities and abilities. Following the proposal for an amendment to the law resulting from this particular case, we have considered the context of the national higher education law as a whole, and we have considered how it might affect young people of the 13 indigenous nationalities. The bill 3. Article 114/B of the National Higher Education Act. The textual wording of the amendment to Section 5. This paragraph states that the Court of Justice of the European Union C-66/18. In order to implement the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law. It is determined that the operating licence of foreign higher education institutions with a Hungarian licence will be reviewed by the Education Office by 31 December 2021. The result of this review may be that the non-compliant foreign higher education institution in Hungary is prohibited by the fact that the training already started can be completed under unchanged conditions in a running system, but only in the 2024/2025 academic year. In my view, it is necessary to ensure this, because the training of a student has begun cannot be broken down by the abolition of the training institution or even the training course that has begun. We are aware of 16 foreign higher education institutions operating in Hungary. Some of them work together with a university in Hungary and others operate independently. The operation of foreign universities in Hungary is an opportunity for Hungarian university students to choose from them in addition to our existing Hungarian universities and colleges, thus becoming students of a foreign university without leaving our country. The training of Hungarian students in a foreign higher education institution, whether in Hungary or in Europe or overseas, has many advantages, especially as regards the personal development of students and the development of their world vision, but this is true in terms of the country when they return home to benefit from their acquired knowledge. It is also important for young people in higher education institutions living in Hungary to accumulate as much knowledge as possible during their studies. Of course, it is also important for them to learn from internationally recognised authorities, even in their own language. This is typically the case in the case of foreign universities operating in Hungary, in addition to professional preparation, because of the increased knowledge of foreign languages, this possibility is open to the German community only in the case of one or two foreign universities. It is also a great advantage for young people belonging to nationalities to receive training in a multicultural environment that, in addition to their choice of field and a high level of knowledge of foreign languages, is a significant sensitivity to stand in a multicultural context, offering the opportunity to complete higher education studies in Hungary in the mother country for one or two semesters. In the case of diplomas from foreign universities, the equivalence of diplomas is a clear requirement, especially the recognition and localization of diplomas from foreign higher education institutions in Hungary. This is partly a possible goal of further education, but it is crucial in the case of the intention to work. The naturalization procedures among the graduates of nationalities are still known among the graduates of the foreign university. Because of the complexity of the process, many are afraid of it, even though all graduates, all well-prepared professionals in all areas of nationality are needed for ethnic communities. We are confident that the contradictions in the establishment of a diploma, the difficulties of nationalities, will be refined as soon as possible at the level of the legislation. This is an important effort for us. In the case of Hungarian nationalities, it is also important to have opportunities to apply for training in a higher education institution established abroad without going abroad. It is also important for young Hungarian communities living in neighbouring countries to receive Hungarian language training close to their home, within the university and college framework of neighbouring countries. Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia or certain universities in Ukraine offer opportunities for this. We also welcome the fact that, at home, arms, cathedrals, etc. provide our nationalities with an ever-expanding offer for students from ethnic communities in all areas of national identity, so that today our dual identity can provide joy and satisfaction. Although the proposal for this amendment of the National Higher Education Act was submitted to this House in order to implement a judgment given by the Court of Justice of the European Union, it also offers an opportunity to refocus attention on the Higher Education Act. The higher education opportunities offered in Hungary are complemented by the presence of foreign universities in Hungary, creating international professional knowledge and resulting results. It is also in the interest of the Hungarian nationalities to acquire the highest quality of knowledge. The quality, state-of-the-art and credible quality of education in a society, the supply of higher education, also indicates how consciously the society in question builds and guarantees the country's future. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for listening.
u2021-04-28-172	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Dear Parliament, We would now have two-minute speeches, but I am going to give the floor to Mr State Secretary, according to the rules of the house. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-28-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think it is worth trying to correct some serious misunderstanding at this point in the debate and to try to resolve the doubts raised primarily by left-wing Members in order to discuss substantive issues at a further stage of the debate. So, on the one hand, with regard to Mr Stummer's point of view, when he started asking national security questions here, I can only say that I understand that you cannot attack the professionalism of Fudan University. I don't understand why this question should be brought here in connection with the Soros University or with the amendment of the Higher Education Law, but if that's what you want to talk about, let's talk about it. I don't understand why they're trying to make such an artificial case out of it. It doesn't reflect any kind of reality. I think he's had a little too much James Bond and other movie experience here in the last few months, and it's worth returning to the world of normal, by the way. [[22.00]] It is clear that we are talking about a higher education institution, one of the world's leading higher education institutions, it is not worth mixing these questions and being artificial, I don't know what the good word is to do with artificial purpharl. Just so they can say something, it's not worth talking about. If there's nothing to say, it's better to be quiet, artificially not to open false problems. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) But Congressman has raised issues of financing and construction, also in connection with the University of Fudan. Allow me to confirm what we have said and made public. In this context, there is a clear situation, we have received all kinds of proposals for funding and implementation, but no decision has yet been taken on this, we will look at the different financing and implementation options and we will naturally choose the best possible solution. Allow me also, Congressman, to draw your attention to the fact that there is absolutely no need to confront Fudan University on the issue of the student city, since both developments are needed and both developments will be implemented. I must also reassure Mr Harvester, who previously said on this point how two things can be built on a site, there is plenty of room for both improvements in the area concerned. It is enough that you look at the plans that are already available in the Hungarian public. Then we received all kinds of accusations, also about Fudan, perhaps also from Congressman Stummer, that there will be some ideological training here. This has been said later in the debate. I'd like to draw attention to two things. On the one hand, Fudan University is not one of the best universities in the world because it provides ideological training, but is one of the best universities because it provides good training. Moreover, if you want to listen to scientific socialism in Hungary, and if you apply to some kind of left-wing MSZP or DK self-training circle, you will get better training, too, that is quite certain. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] What Congresswoman Kunhalmi has brought up on the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, Madam honourable Member, is clear and clear: we do not agree with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, but, as always, we will implement it. So if there's a court ruling, then we do it. That's what we're doing right now anyway. Another issue is that, by the way, we have submitted to the Parliament legislation which complies with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, while setting stricter requirements on the basis of Bavarian legislation. And I ask myself that we would confuse the Central European University and the CEU, as you said, and as if Congressman Arató had said so, you are the ones who regularly play with these names, and the institutions themselves have played with me being here, there I am, that's my name, that's my name, while we were talking about two clearly different legal entities and institutions with different legal status. It is a matter of fact, and I must tell you this, and also to Mr Arató, that the CEU has never performed any kind of activity in the United States, there was a piece of building where the letters could arrive and forward it. So the situation and the facts are clear and clear. I can only say to you what I would also say to Congressman Stummer, and to everyone who tries to say some strange sentences here in connection with the Soros University and Fudan University, that I do not regret that this question has been raised here, because it is clear that your goal is not to bring good universities to Hungary, not to fight for competitive higher education, but to make proposals, but only to meet George Soros. That is what the sentences you here in Parliament are all about, by the way. For us, any higher education institution that otherwise complies with the current legislation is good. As to Mr Arató's point, much has also been said here, which I believe I have already partially replied to, perhaps it is worth saying once again that any university can do anything in Hungary if it complies with the Hungarian legislation in force. That is what it is, honourable Member, to say the opposite, and to make a question of autonomy in this whole story, of compliance with the law, is quite ridiculous. Self-government doesn't mean that someone doesn't have to follow the law, but I hope that doesn't mean I'm telling you too much. Also, Congressman has attacked Fudan University and why we are cooperating with China, more precisely, why we are cooperating with a Chinese university. I am also prepared from your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who, as Prime Minister, has said on numerous occasions that there is a need to strengthen the cooperation of the two countries in higher education, there is a need to build a close partnership with Russia and China, even if we do not agree on everything, because it is in the interests of Hungary, honourable Member. So you're going up against your own boss's earlier sentences, not only are you arguing with us, but Ferenc Gyurcsány, too, apparently. I am also quite certain that I would not be surprised, Mr honourable Member, if we were going to do exactly the same on the issue of Fudan University, as we have done on Chinese vaccines, that you are working against it for a long time, you will speak against it for a long time, and then you will receive it. Listen, it's gonna be a few years from now. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] They're gonna fight Fudan University, and they're gonna send their own kids there because they're gonna want to push their own kids into one of the world's leading institutions. So, honourable Member, we are going to walk in the same way as you, by the way, have done with the Chinese vaccines. I think that I have already reflected on Mrs Varga-Damm's speech and most of what she has to say, and repeated the earlier speeches. I think that we do not need to prove that the national civil side, Fidesz and KDNP are anti-communist communities, we have always been, this has been the case today, but that we are cooperating with one of the world's leading universities, and that one of the world's leading universities is opening campus in Hungary, it can only be good for Hungary and Hungarian young people. We think that what is good for young Hungarians is good for Hungary. And you can't imagine, Congresswoman, that Fudan is one of the best universities in the world because it would spread communist ideology. On the one hand, it's in his charter to ensure freedom of research and education. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] On the other hand, it is clear and clear that Fudan will not bring ideology to Hungary, but world-class knowledge. And that is our goal to make world-class knowledge available to young Hungarians, young Europeans. So it is false that you are constantly doing anti-University talks here in the Parliament about Fudan and about strengthening Hungarian higher education institutions, but you are willing to do everything for George Soros' university. [[22.10]] I think I've answered all the questions here. Perhaps I would like to note that there was a very important comment by Mrs Kissné Köles, spokesperson Erika. It is important for us to be able to work together on these issues on the one hand and, on the other hand, to indicate that the universities of the EEA States are not substantially affected by the regulation, and it is therefore important to note this. I thank you very much for the floor, and I hope that, on the basis of what you have said, we will be able to continue the debate in the next few minutes and hours. Thank you.
u2021-04-28-174	Two-minute comments from Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP.
u2021-04-28-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Kunhalmi and Congressman Arató will come to another meeting, because Congresswoman Kunhalmi has told us that the CEU has been chased away from here, that her library is gone, there is nothing here, and then Mr Arató said that 1600 students should walk into Nádor Street, a small mailbox. I would like to point out to Mrs Kunhalmi that the CEU library is here, it is free to search, it is possible to go in under previous conditions, you can go in, you can find useful knowledge there. It's completely ridiculous, what Congressman Arató has said, that if a law changes and someone doesn't follow the law, he's a victim. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not what I said!]] That's what you're saying, honourable Member. Today, we voted with your votes that next year, people under the age of 25 will be granted sja-free. If an entrepreneur holds it back and doesn't pay it to his young employee, will he be a victim? If a law changes, it must be observed, honourable Member, and you say here that at one point, only one tiny point, the CEU has failed to comply with the new law. Well, there was no education in the state that he issued. And that is why the example of Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm is wrong, because a Hungarian billionaire who has fled to America is free to set up a university in Hungary and freely issue a Hungarian diploma; he cannot issue an American if he does not have training in that state. And in America, the CEU has a piece of mailbox, Congressman, and you know it, and you've seen the news about it, and you've seen it, Congresswoman, and you know very well that there's a piece of mailbox in there for the CEU. We want higher education to be the winner of the next period, and Hungarian youth to be the winner of the future. That is why we are investing in higher education institutions, which is why we are negotiating with the world's leading universities, such as MIT, and even with many universities, and the fact that you normally pretend that everything that comes from the East can only be bad and bathed in western awe, I cannot accept it. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-176	The next two-minute comment is Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-177	Thank you very much. It is a cause for concern that the first European campus of the University of Fudan can be opened, because Beijing has proven to use its higher education institutions to gain harmful influence and suppress spiritual freedom. Mr Secretary of State, this was not said by James Bond, nor by Jack Ryan, to be more stylish, but by the American embassy in Hungary a few hours ago to the press. I must tell you, Mr. Secretary, that you may not share our concerns, but I am sure that our concerns do not come from spy films, but from very real information and data. Congressman Nacsa says that the legislation must be respected by everyone. That, of course, must be observed, but if you bring in legislation that concerns the fact that the KDNP Members, who start with the letter "N" can only pass through the red, then you can count on me to protect the Member. The problem is not that we have to comply with the law, the problem is that they bring in legislation that they only bring in to push someone out, where appropriate, with an institution. That's what's illegal, that's what makes someone a victim. With personalised legislation, they bring about a rule that is designed directly to be harmful to him. He says, Mr Secretary, that the purpose of the opposition and the government is different. It's really different. Our goal is not to bring Chinese intellectual bridgeheads to Hungary, and our goal is not to bring a Chinese university here, to have a world-class university in Hungary. Our goal is that Hungarian universities, where Hungarian students can learn, should be world-class. I think that is also the job of the government, rather than selling Hungarian higher education in the strict sense of the word at times. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-178	Thank you. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi for two minutes, MSZP.
u2021-04-28-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Nacsa, that, in relation to the characterization of the CEU, I mentioned what a great library he had, and not in relation to his leaving the country. Thank you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The library is here!]] But I did not mention, my fellow Member, that the library would have left. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He said the library was here.]] No. CEU was the best university in Hungary in the international ranking, it was one of the best 200 universities in the world, and in some of the areas taught there it was one of the top 50, and CEU's library is also an outstanding service, and often there are publications that are not available at other universities in Hungary. I told CEU about your appreciation, and not about you leaving, but that should be our biggest problem. Thank you.
u2021-04-28-180	Thank you. Mr János Bencsik has the floor now, an independent Member. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the expulsion of the University of CEU and the invitation to the University of Fudan, it is very tempting to discuss double standards or to discuss what perceived or real national security risks may be, perhaps to consider the anti-communism of Fidesz in terms of words for a university that has confessed to and accepts the education of such ideas. But I think, along with all this, that this is a mistake, I mean, I think it's a mistake that we want to capture this problem by its ideological nature. The problem with Fudan University is, in the least, the ideological education that will take place there, indebtedness is the biggest problem, and we talked very, very little about it compared to the size of the problem. I do not think that a Budapest is a new Chinese communist spy trainer in Central Europe, or, as my fellow Member Arató said, that there would be a bridge station here in Budapest. However, I think it is more a problem that we are again and again spending hundreds of billions of dollars on loans, and this is very, very well suited to the line that started with the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, Paks II and now. And the biggest problem with these is not that China and Russia are indebted to, but that they are indebted to a foreign country at all, and that is the real problem, and that you are not going to have to repay this loan, but we and the taxpayers, someone, when you are not going to govern it. The time will come for these loans to be repaid with interest. When I talk to Fidesz voters, I argue, there is an argument in order about you, about the latest, unsuitable and generally creatively interpreting proposals about public money, that you are okay, okay, okay, they are stealing, but at least the Hungarians are stealing, at least the Mészáros Lőrinc does not take the money abroad, but it stays here. Okay, well, they also steal, steal, and all politicians steal, but at least here Hungarian entrepreneurs get rich of this, and at least Lőrinc Mészáros pays for his employees. The interesting question is that the Hungarians are getting rich, and in good times it does not mean 5-6 families, but more Hungarians, but it is always the ultima ratio, the main argument is that if there is an investment in the country that the meaning or long-term utilisation of which is questionable, at least they can tell us that this money does not leave national borders now, let us not talk about offshore companies! But here, in this case, it's not even that! Here Hungary takes loans from China to build a Chinese university with Chinese workers and Chinese workers. That's what we're paying for, which is why we and the next generations are likely to pay off our own taxes for such purposes. We are talking about 540 billion forints in the case of Fudan University. It is worth considering how much better it would be if we spent this money, say, on raising wages for higher education workers. [[22.20]] Do you know how much a career-starting university teaching assistant earns, who, after years of studies and research, takes up teaching careers? Or are you aware that, according to all predictions, if everything goes that way, if the honor of the teaching career remains so low, in 10-15 years there will be no chemistry, physics and biology teacher in primary and secondary schools? How much better it would be not to pour this money into iron and concrete and, moreover, into iron and concrete that will not profit Hungarian workers or Hungarian entrepreneurs, how much better it would be to invest in human resources! Because perhaps the aim would be, I suppose, and in principle there is no debate between us at the level of words, only in the actions, there is debate in the actions that can be seen in the act, that perhaps the goal would be to lure the scientists of Katalin Karikó into Hungary after a while, or to prevent the Katalins of Karikó from having to leave the country, because, say, they can use their knowledge and diligence and their talents at home, and they do not have to face the enormous challenge of staying home, that they will only receive a fraction of their invested knowledge and energy in money, social recognition, progress, as they do in Western Europe or overseas. That's the point, isn't it? And that as many Hungarian higher education higher education as possible! an institution is able to enter the top universities in the world. I have no problem in itself, whether CEU or Fudan, or any other foreign university in Hungary, providing training, issuing a diploma, building a campus, accrediting itself, as long as we don't spend Hungarian tax-paying money on these foreign universities, not a disproportionate amount of Hungarian tax-paying money. This is the real problem, and I would like the Secretary of State or someone to give me a clear answer, that he has made such a calculation that this unmerciful amount, which we are now pouring into iron and concrete, is that Fudan is a highly listed, internationally listed university, how it will benefit from the multitude of educated Hungarian heads of people, how it will benefit Hungarian universities, the higher education institutions in Hungary. Because I see that Viktor Orbán has announced HUF 1500 billion, and we do not see when Hungarian higher education can use it. I think, and I think that I am not alone when I say, on behalf of the representatives of the Civil Reply movement, that the knowledge and diligence of respected knowledge and of students who study here, and of lecturers, researchers, teachers who teach here, are the most important. Because the building is very important, but even more important are the people who study there and perform there. In the 2020s, startup companies and innovative businesses are emerging and growing out of nowhere, and there is certainly a lot to learn from China, but I feel that this is not going to solve our problems. If we cannot invest from our own strength in our own human resources, our own researchers, our own teachers, our own future professors, we will not get far. That would be the national interest, that would be the national minimum, and I would ask you to acknowledge that what you are on now is a mistake in this respect, and I ask you, please, the government, that every development you have invested in foreign universities is invested in the Hungarian state, and will be invested in Hungarian students, Hungarian teachers and Hungarian researchers at the same rate and speed. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-28-182	Thank you. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs for two minutes, KDNP.
u2021-04-28-183	Thank you very much. I've just run out of time. I wanted to ask Mr Arató, because he was also the organizer of the 2009 Hungarian-China Rector Forum, where Minister Hiller and you gave a welcome speech, where they expressed their need for closer cooperation in higher education and the appearance of Chinese universities in Hungary, and for the deepening of exchanges, scholarships and research programmes. Obviously, the world has turned a lot around, and now the press centre has given something else to read and say, I understand, Mr. Congressman, but you also knew exactly in government, and as the Secretary of State for Education, you knew precisely that cooperation with the world's leading universities does not matter at what time the cooperation is important, it was not by accident that the Hungarian-China Rector Forum was initiated and organised, for example, in 2009 and there are countless similar events not only from the East, but also from the West, and from all over the world, because it is important that Hungarian universities, important and elite research centres of the world, have an active relationship with Hungarian universities, as well as there are British, French, American, Chinese and countless other universities in Hungary, and they have cooperation with Hungarian universities, and this is not a disadvantage for Hungarian higher education, but an advantage. And, as Congressman Bencsik said earlier, that is exactly what we represent, so we will spend HUF 1500-2000 billion on Hungarian higher education in the coming years, we will spend an unprecedented amount on higher education in the coming years, so that Hungarian young people will be the winners of the future, Hungarian universities, increasing the quality of Hungarian training, Hungarian teachers' wages and Hungarian research. Thank you very much. [[János Bencsik intervenes.]]
u2021-04-28-184	For a two-minute response, Congressman Gergely Arató will have the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-185	Because Congressman Nacsa has been kind enough to ask, as usual, that he is eager to be able to ask questions in a legitimate manner as an opposition representative, and in the meantime, I would like to give him a taste of, for example, not believing everything in the Hungarian nation. You're wrong, I wasn't invited to that forum; I would have been happy to go if I had been invited, but I didn't actually attend. But that's not the point. The point is this, and that's the point of the misunderstanding, I think, and we don't agree on that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Was there such a thing?]] : Any international relationship that promotes, supports and strengthens higher education in Hungary is good and right. But that is not the case here, you are not strengthening Hungarian higher education in Hungary, but strengthening Chinese higher education. It's not in our interest! To have a Chinese university in Hungary, it is especially not in our interest that it is the university and under the conditions that you bring it here, and these are two very different things.
u2021-04-28-186	Thank you. Now it's up to Mrs Bernadett Wind, an independent congresswoman. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It's 22:00 at night. It's almost 30 minutes. If you wanted to give dignity to this bill, we wouldn't be discussing it at night. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] You can negotiate such laws at night, you steal a lot at night, and when others do not pay attention, and while there is an emergency in the country and we are fighting a virus, they bring the greatest swine to the Hungarian Parliament. The historical times we are living now are a very sad memento of the situation that we are experiencing. You are currently signing with a Chinese communist university, Fudan University, and we are discussing in Parliament how CEU will not be allowed back. That it's artificial to put these two together, Mr. Secretary of State? Well, it's not artificial. You do it. Here, it's in, CEU can't come back. You are not interested in international law, you are not interested in European law, you are not interested in any legal order. They've been scavenging liberal democracies in their various laws until they find something they can show us here, so please, we'll do the same thing as the Bavarians and the Germans. Well, they're not doing the same thing. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can.]] Well, they're not doing the same thing. There's no justice and there's no legislation, no honest legislation, as long as you're in power in this country. We are at the point that this House legitimizes lawlessness in a series. And, yes, several people here brought up lex CEU, we remember that debate. I told you then that what you are doing and we are here is a communist tempo, and I am really surprised that the representative of KDNP has tears in his eyes to glorify a university under the control of the Chinese Communist Party. Well, where did you guys get to? ! How big has the world turned with you? Full role disorder, total nihilism, total value-free! You have said that the Chinese Communist Fudan can come, and the CEU can go, and the value choice is clear, and while you are trying so hard to tell you what your arguments are, you are rebutting the set of arguments that you have used in relation to the CEU. [[22.30]] They said the CEU is a fraud because he's giving a double degree. What's Fudan doing? There was an American diploma at CEU and a Hungarian. What about Chinese? The Minister also said that the Chinese Communist University will be a healthy competition for Hungarian higher education and Hungarian universities. On the other hand, it was said in relation to CEU that the unfair competitive disadvantage for Hungarian universities was. What do you think of that after all? We're talking about a university four or five times the size of CEU. Plus, it works on private money. You guys were always in line, and you always do that when you're in trouble, and you have the Fudan University built with the Hungarian taxpayers in Budapest. I read the seven pages that were published while they were shoveling public funds to foundations, that's when the minister concluded this contract. He's got it all figured out. He's going to a trust fund. What do you think you're doing? Taxpayers pay, build everything, then take it from the taxpayers, give it to me, I don't know who it is, through the private foundation, and they still want to make the reservation pay to the Hungarian taxpayers. What kind of robbery is this? That's what it says. Read it. But it's only in English, it's not in Hungarian. They did not bother to translate this document into Hungarian national language. Yeah, values issues. You know, we still have those. They say that the CEU's values are problematic because it has liberal commitment and its founding documents have values such as academic freedom, democracy and critical thinking. Now, with Fudan, they won't have such a problem, they've got it there, and they've taken autonomy out of the charter, and they've dragged it all under the Chinese Communist Party. I looked into it while waiting for my turn here: In 2016, the Chinese Ministry of Education introduced an educational performance assessment system that also measures the extent to which teachers are involved in fighting the Communist Party's harmful doctrines. What is one of the harmful doctrines of the Chinese Communist Party? Constitutional democracy, civil society, freedom of the press, the dimension of human rights. How is that, gentlemen? Let's see what's in these charters. Minister Palkovics says that it is not a problem that it would be a mistake to consider ideological training that the Chinese Communist Party is subject to all of this. And what is that I read to you? There's this system, that's how it works. And that's the ranking. Well, it's a damn thing, actually, it's a number. They say proudly, now I've learned that 34th best in the world, let's swallow that it's under the Chinese Communist Party, so good, we need 34th place. What did they say? That an engineer doesn't have an ideology, that's what these Pharisee KDNP guys are talking about. What about CEU? 25th best in international relations, political science, and a lot in the first hundred. And it was not paid by Hungarian taxpayers, but it was paid by Hungarian taxpayers. You guys got some, too. György Soros, the Fidesz, built the network of a party in this country. That's it. Viktor Orbán was more at the Soros Scholarship than any of us, at least more than I am. How's that? Do they deny everything, everything they ever believed? So we're supposed to sit here and say that it's not worthy to talk about the fact that he's really under the rule of the Chinese Communist Party? But it's there! It's absolutely there! They say national security issues shouldn't be pushed and I don't know what they're talking about. Well, let's put some pressure on these national security risks. The U.S. Embassy has spoken on this issue. They were asked today. Let me tell you the relevant part of the U.S. diplomatic representation's response. He commends Hungary's NATO relationship, that we are NATO members, and says that the possibility of opening up the first European campus at Fudan University is a concern, because Beijing has proven to use its higher education institutions to gain harmful influence and to suppress intellectual freedom. Then, gentlemen, don't start a war against the United States, but tell me what your answer is, because I'd be genuinely interested. And then let's look at this national security thing. I don't want to shock anyone, but Fudan is working with Chinese intelligence. We know that the construction itself would not be handled by the Rippers, but by the Chinese state civil engineering company, which was blacklisted by the US Department of Defence in 2017 because of its close relationship with the popular liberation army, the Chinese military that oversees cyber spying and technology intelligence. Let's taste it a little bit: it's about cooperation with the people's liberation army. In 2012, there was a big scandal, maybe you know, he must have made it to the State Department, the African Union headquarters was practically built as an intelligence center, they gave it away as a gift, they just wired it up so that for years they could listen to what was going on there. Well, that's a gift we, thank you very much, don't ask. Let us say that we will pay for this, but I am curious what chance the Hungarian services will have to look around there. But there's someone else who can tell you a story. Philippine road construction, Bahamian luxury hotel and casino construction, Pakistani motorway construction, attempt to buy Australian construction companies, 10-12 years of corruption and/or espionage cases. That there's no national security risk? From here, at the moment, on the National Security Committee, I'll tell you how it is. You're either on government or you're lying or you're blind or you're both together. Don't talk like that, because we're not buying it. And they also say that the Chinese Communist Party's leadership is there, not a specific and not a tangible threat for you, because I don't know why, I don't know what they say. The fact is that from the Chinese propaganda distribution to the monitoring of teachers until critical voices are silenced means a lot of things, that they do not swear on the freedom of researchers at this university, but that they serve the Chinese Communist Party. We also know that according to the party, education and research should not affect the doctrines considered harmful, and we also looked at the fact that at least a quarter of these elite teachers and students are party members. So, this would probably affect ideology, and ideology would probably affect teaching. By the way, yes, all the fear is right, that all this money that you want to put into this institution through Hungarian taxpayers will drive Hungarian higher education to its death. He bleeds it out and destroys it. One Chinese university is given as much money as the entire Hungarian higher education. What do you mean? And to this day, they have not answered the question of exactly how this is worth it to taxpayers. You said, Mr. Secretary, I told you to leave our children out of this, you said we'd have our children enrolled here. That's what you just said. How do you even think that? How do you think, as Secretary of State, you're going to use the argument that with your kids, you're going to do what? You are one of whose State Secretary posted a picture from a very expensive private school after you destroyed Hungarian public education in one piece. What do you think you're trying to make such future allegations about our own children? Give me a reason. Tell me why the Hungarian taxpayer is worth boosting a Chinese university that will be built by a Chinese company on Chinese credit! This is worse than Paks, and I think I've been pretty critical of him if you remember him. There the Hungarian Parliament voted on the credit agreement at Paks II. At the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which, by the way, is a brother of Fudan, I couldn't even sue the loan agreement. I couldn't even sue him for why it was secret. Go ahead and tell me. It is in Hungarian law that it is possible to learn anything from this loan agreement to taxpayers if Péter Szijjártó or the current Minister of Foreign Affairs can agree to allow it to be made public. This is where you keep me. They chased the CEU away because they wanted to do this change of course. We're gonna be a bridgehead? We won't be. Because this country has to change course in 22 because we have been in Europe since St. Stephen, and the desire of this people to be there is because there is our place, that is our natural federal system. What you are forcing us to do today is a turnaround that is alien to the Hungarian people. We don't want to do this anymore! So please, don't hide these debates overnight, but come out to the light, I'm not thinking about propaganda TVs, and tell us exactly why this project is worth it. [[22.40]] Tell me! Shame on you for taking Hungary on such a street and for doing so in a crisis, in the middle of a pandemic! When we should focus on defence and economic damage control, every single penny they want to put in this project would be a hundred times better placed in Hungarian health care, in Hungarian education, in families staying at home with children, in national infrastructure, in anything better place for this money than what they are doing with it now. We know exactly how much money the nurses, the specialists at the hospital, the shortage of doctors and nurses, we know exactly what the circumstances are. Although you won't let us go to the hospitals and see it, we know because the information will get out. We know that Hungary has a tragic list of deaths across the world in proportion to the population. Don't try to deny it. Keep your heads down in front of the nation to let this happen and apologize. You, while the nation is experiencing this tragedy, are bringing in such things as Fudan and you don't want the CEU to come back. Because this law is about CEU not coming back here because you signed with the Chinese Communist Party. Shame on you! [[John Stummer applauds.]]
u2021-04-28-188	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to the debate at a later stage. [[Tamás János Schanda: Yes.]] Secretary of State says yes. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-28-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the course of the debate, I had the opportunity to adjust the sentences I said, so I would not repeat the same answers that I had given earlier, but just try to address the issues that have been raised in the meantime. On the one hand, I always admire those left-wing Members who once criticize us and give our bad news because the Hungarian Parliament does not work, and what we do not bring before the Parliament and what we do not discuss, and on the other hand their problem is that if Hungary has a legislative obligation as a result of a European court ruling, then why we are willing to fulfil it. Madam Member, I understand that we cannot meet you, we cannot do such a thing. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We don't want to!]] Which you can do with any positive sentence. If we're going one way, the problem is if we're going the other way, and if we're wearing hats, the problem is, if we're not wearing hats, then we're wearing hats. But, honourable Member, the minimum consistency could be maintained. My second point, which must be with you, is that I think our proposal is clear and clear. We are saying that we are taking over a regulation that works in Europe. According to the EU institutional system, this is in line with EU standards. We're taking over Bavarian regulations. If we take over Bavarian regulation, I don't know why you're telling me that this is definitely not going to work, and this is an inappropriate, inappropriate and ideological-driven story. This means that there was an ideologically-led legislation in Bavaria at that time and a regulation is in place. But there's more to the list. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] We could also mention where similar strict regulation is in Europe. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett is shaking his head.]] We refer to the translation and reflection of Bavarian legislation in the Hungarian Higher Education Act. You may shake your head, honourable Member, but that is the case. Take a look at the Bavarian regulations, take a look at the proposed legislation, and you'll see the perfect match. Madam Member, what is acceptable to the European Union in Bavaria is, we trust, acceptable in Hungary, and there is no double standard for the European Commission and the European Court of Justice. That is the case, honourable Member. The fact is that there are higher education institutions that are able to comply with this regulation, which is a European regulation, and there are those who are unable to comply, some who want to comply and some who do not want to comply. Fudan University is suitable and will comply with this regulation because we are talking about an existing higher education institution, which is also the world's leading institution, an institution that is Harvard, MIT, Oxford, Cambridge, Sorbonne [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] can be mentioned on a page. Of course, Congressman, we are looking forward to the application and request for any of these institutions at the top of the higher education rankings, and we welcome them in Hungarian higher education. I think we are talking about a clear situation here. If one of the best institutions in the world wants to open a campus in Hungary, it is a responsible government committed to the nation's future, which recognized [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Unlike you and you, the future of this country is to be educated heads of people, to give our young people, our children, every opportunity to participate in the best trainings, a dog's duty to support any such program. Madam Member, that is the case. We are interested in giving young Hungarians better and more quality training, a training that will enable them to hold their place in both the labour market and international scientific life. I understand that nothing is ever good for you, and you are not interested in the future of Hungarian young people, nor in the future of the country, nor in creating a better and more livable country where there is better higher education, but, honourable Member, we will not listen to you. On the other hand, he brings up the Soros University. Our position on the Soros University is also clear: the laws must be followed by everyone. Soros University doesn't want to follow the law because it doesn't want to and because it doesn't know because it doesn't have a real campus in the United States. That is the case, honourable Member. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true!]] It's a story that doesn't exist. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] , honourable Member. Whatever you're saying, that's the situation, that's the pure fact. For us, all higher education institutions, who are able to provide quality training and comply with the legislation in force, are also valuable. On the other hand, I cannot make you understand that Fudan University is not one of the best universities in the world because it provides ideological training, but is one of the best universities in the world because it provides good quality training; because it provides good quality training, honourable Member. Let us rejoice in the quality of our training here in Hungary! That is why I say and I am absolutely sure that Fudan University will not bring ideology to Hungary, but world-class knowledge. It will bring world-class knowledge to Hungary, which, I think, is a great and important opportunity for all of us. Madam Member, allow me also to draw attention to what has already been said at an earlier stage of the debate, I have said, but I repeat, for your own sake, that offers for financing and construction are currently available, and no decision has yet been taken. Then, when the time is right, decisions will be made and, of course, we will choose the best possible solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Spreading false news, running a fake news factory [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're good at that.]] It is not worth it on this issue, even if it has now become a full-time activity for you. Dear Parliament, I hope that I have been able to give a meaningful and accurate answer to all the substantive questions, and I hope I have also managed to convince those who were previously unsure about supporting the bill. I have nothing left to do at this late hour, Mr President, but to thank you for having been able to discuss this today and to ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]] [[22.50]]
u2021-04-28-190	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, I give the floor to independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who is a country where the values are in the trash, and the interests are on the throne. Here you go.
u2021-04-28-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it turns out that I'm going to give an obituary over a television, because when I presented my speech after the agenda, I was still hoping that this speech would help to get this television budget, but since then, unfortunately, it turns out that it doesn't, so in the end, this speech became an obituary over television. I'm talking about Komló Television, the oldest local television in the country. Even before the birth of the media law and every week since 1994, he has prepared his daily broadcasts for more than four hours. During that time, he did not make any accounting and professional mistakes, he was also successful in the utilities applications, and in the last 20 years, their clearing obligations have always been fulfilled without prejudice. Television's reserves have been expended, private people operating them can no longer provide their own resources, the local government does not support it on the grounds of state aid, and now it has come to the point that the Media Authority is not willing to provide public support for this great media workshop after 27 years of operation. This organisation, this television, must close on 1 May, and the very first local television, which has fully completed its unbroken public activities, shall no longer be able to make its voice heard. This will also affect the Seven Hill Film Festival, organized every year by this television. The website komlomedia.hu has the largest local television archive in the country, which should not be lost cultural heritage. The Komlo Media videos are visited by a million people a month. I met television in 2011, when the tragedy of foreign exchange lending struck society. They also worked on this topic with incredible energy and objectivity, demandingly, prepared, but always made their reports and documentary films with the aim of telling the truth. If I look at the media world, it is full of lousy, demoralizing content, which does not provide any cultural surplus to Hungarian society, yet their support from taxpayers' money can be measured in hundreds of billions. However, this professional workshop, Komló Média, could not offer an annual grant of HUF 5 million, even though their activities fully comply with all the letters of the press law, especially the obligation to provide credible information; perhaps that is why the Media Authority no longer supports it. It is a disgrace to the Media Authority that its precious activities do not support the survival of values, but the rampage of lewdness. Congratulations. Political interest-based government and public life activity is raging in Hungary, throwing aside cultural and scientific values completely. We can therefore conclude that our country is indeed a country where values are thrown into the trash, while poor, demented products are enthusiasted. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-28-192	Thank you. Mr János Stummer, from Jobbik, also spoke after the agenda, with the title "Change of the Age." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-28-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, When the Hungarian government, this precious government, comes into this room, then the members of the government like to pat each other on the shoulders of what fantastic work they do in the interests of the nation. The minister and the secretary of state are barely able to praise each other at the front, in those red chairs, how well they are dealing with the crisis that has erupted here in Hungary in the last year. When they do, and they ask for a word, and they put this little pick-up mic on their lapel, they're going to perform acting so that poor Gobbi Hilda and the other late si-Nesthetics would probably lick their ten fingers after how they're lying about the state of the country. When asked to speak, these gentlemen, members of the government or members of the government, they usually talk about how wages have been fired in Hungary in the last 10 to 11 years, how only a few years, and that we will be able to reach the standard of living in Western Europe, Austria, and that the quality of health care is perhaps the best in Hungary throughout the European Union and throughout the European continent. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not due to our precious government, but to the great people who do your national rescue service every day in medical offices and hospitals. But the lowest of all their lies is that the Secretary of State and Ministers stand up, or Viktor Orbán stands up himself, and says that the Hungarian government has eradicated poverty in Hungary over the last 10 years; when they claim that there is no child in Hungary who does not receive adequate quantities and quality of healthy food every day; when they lie that there is no Hungarian person living on wages and salaries who would have problems with what he will put bread on the family table at the end of the month, or when they lie that there is no patient in Hungary today who would not receive health care at the right time and place, something that would be due to his illness. The fact is that if the pro-government representatives or members of the government were interested in what is really the situation in Hungary compared to their dream world, then I would be delighted to invite them to the county of Békés to take a look at what our reality in the region of Peace is and how far they are from the dream world they have imagined in propaganda. I would very much like to introduce them to the family where both parents work three shifts in a peaceful factory in Csaba, do not waste money, have worked 30 years, and do not go from one to the other, because the minimum wage cannot go from one to the other. I would very much like to show these pro-government representatives the old man from Kondoros who built his house 40 years ago, but he doesn't have the money to patch the roof, he doesn't have ten pots to keep the house from getting wet over his head. I would be very happy to show you the family, who also live in the county of Peace, who struggle every month with the dilemma of treating the child's diabetes, taking medication for it, parents eating decently, or paying the loan or the bills. That's their dilemma! Or the mother who has to look her own child in the eye with the greatest maternal pain, and when she looks at her own son, she would say to her heart that if my son, if you want a better life than I have lived, then go to the West, go to Western Hungary, go to Western Europe, because if you stay here, you will live the same miserable life that I have lived. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that your dream world must end legally in the spring of 2022, and we will do everything we can to ensure that it does. I talk a lot to those peaceful people who, along with me, believe that this nightmare that has been going on for almost 12 years will be over, and together with these people, we believe that it is the same prime citizen of this country who was born east of the Tisza. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-04-28-194	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I will close the sitting and wish everyone a good rest.
