u2021-11-11-0	I salute my fellow Members and welcome all those who are monitoring our meeting today. The 13th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Lajos Szűcs, who is sitting in his seat at the moment, will be the rapporteur for the first item on the agenda and that Mr Csaba Gyüre will be the notaries for my assistance. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A general discussion of the bill on the implementation of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's single budget for 2020 will follow. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/16284. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament, the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-1	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Indeed, as the President said, T/16284. by the Committee on Budgets. According to the House Rules of the Decision, the media authority cannot submit a bill, and therefore, according to custom, the Committee on Budgets is the author, but of course the bill is prepared by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority itself. For this reason, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority submitted a proposal on the implementation of its 2020 budget by 31 May in accordance with the legal requirements. At its meeting on 17 May, the Committee on Budgets discussed it and submitted it to the Parliament. At the meeting, the committee adopted the discharge by 10 votes to four, with no abstentions. A total of four separate budgets are reported in the draft closing act. It includes, on the one hand, the accounts of the NMHH, the Media Council, the appropriations managed by the Media Council and the accounts of the MTVA. The NMHH's expenditure is financed from two sources, both from own revenue and from budgetary contributions. Such own revenue includes, for example, frequency charges, charges for the booking and use of identifiers, as well as charges for official procedures, and supervisory fees. The Parliament approved the budget expenditure and revenue appropriations of the Authority under the Law of 2020 by HUF 34.4 billion. The Authority's budget expenditure was HUF 37.2 billion, which represents a 3.1 percent savings compared to the original budget. The budget expenditure of the Media Council amounts to HUF 456.3 million, showing 72.8 per cent of the initial appropriations. Budget revenues were reached at HUF 540.3 million, which is 86.2 percent of the initial appropriations. The budget for expenditure and revenue managed by the Media Council was HUF 1.3 billion. The total amount of MTVA's expenditure amounted to HUF 88.8 billion. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I believe that the prepared draft discharge law and the related justification show and reveal in sufficient detail to Parliament the implementation of the 2020 budget. At the same time, I would like to note that all four accounts were audited by an independent auditor, and in their report it was found that the accounts submitted provide a real and reliable picture of the management in 2020 and the financial situation. And I would also like to say here that, of course, the Committee on Culture could deal with closing accounts and professional issues, which is why I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-11-2	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to hear speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank both the work of the NMHH and the work of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Culture on this subject, because we meet in quite a similar circle every year and discuss these important issues, which concern the issue of media awareness, online presence and, of course, because it is also a closing point on the issue of farming. We can see and read from the reports and figures that the National Media and Infocommunications Authority has done high-quality, meaningful professional work in 2020 and has contributed with its work to making work, learning, leisure, orientation, entertainment and privacy more efficient and meaningful for the Hungarian people. The 2020 edition of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority was HUF 37 billion for HUF 215.8 million, while its revenue was HUF 38 billion for HUF 344.8 million. The 2020 edition of the Media Council was HUF 456.3 million, while its revenue was HUF 540.3 million. We can therefore see from the figures that both the NMHH and the Media Council managed efficiently and responsibly and did not accumulate deficits, and in both cases the amount of revenues was higher than that of expenditure. The good management of NMHH is a major achievement in the Pandemic Year 2020 as professional materials and operating materials, for example, exceeded the planned framework by 34.8 percent. This was due to the creation of conditions for teleworking due to the epidemic, which attracted, for example, the capacity building of servers, the purchase of related technical equipment, drives and machines. At the same time, due to the epidemic situation, IT services, computer systems, software design, operation and the renting of IT equipment were significantly saved in 2020. The NMHH also carried out a number of major projects to strengthen media awareness and media understanding last year. The successful project of NMHH is the establishment of the Magic Valley Media Education Centres. The Művösvölgy media education centers were created by NMHH to support media literacy education with an experiential program for the 9-16-year-old population. The first such centre was opened in Budapest in 2014, followed by Debrecen in 2017, and last year the Magic Valley Centre was completed in Sopron. The construction of the Magic Valley Media Education Centre in Sopron was HUF 70.3 million. In the Magic Valley centers, students can learn about decision-making situations in the media and how they can strengthen media awareness through the management of qualified, competent instructors, playful and experiential children. [[9.10]] The full-day interactive program for school groups, classes and grades is becoming more and more popular among students every year. More than 10,000 students have participated in these sessions each year, and now, after opening the third location in Sopron, we hope that this number will expand. Many of the materials and educational videos of the Magic Valley Training Centre are already available online, where youtubers popular among young people also make interesting educational and awareness-raising videos on media and media awareness issues. For example, they demonstrate the practice of recognizing and detecting false news. In recent years, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority has taken serious steps to protect minors against online harassment and abuse. The NMHH Internet Hotline service is outstanding, which is a legal assistance service operated by NMHH to report illegal or harmful content for minors. On the basis of the reports of NMHH Hotline's legal aid service, we can say that there is a need for such a system, as notifications are constantly increasing, and such an online legal assistance service is needed. This is largely due to the fact that the NMHH also launched a campaign to promote legal assistance among minors, especially between 11 and 16 years of age, thereby raising the awareness of young people online. Most of these cases of data abuse have been exposed to large companies by different data-gathering persons or organisations, or by unauthorised disclosure, data abuse has been the subject of most of the notifications. I think that we can all agree that the online awareness, media awareness of young people and the fight against online harassment and phishing is a common goal across Parliament's horseshoe, in which we all need to work together. We must also support these struggles, and we can be glad that, for example, the NMHH also considers this fight important from own revenue and budgetary resources, which, I think, is also its task. I believe that the media campaign, promotion campaign and Internet campaign for the ages of 11 to 18 are still needed to strengthen the online awareness, media awareness of young people and to understand the dangers they are facing in the digital world, for example, and the opportunities they can use in online space for their own upbuilding, learning and entertainment. It is therefore a pleasure for me that the NMHH has renewed the partnership with SOS Children's Village Hungary, and has continued the joint projects that have already started in recent years. Obviously, after examining the notifications, Internet Hotline and NMHH staff also took the necessary steps. I think that I have also tried to highlight a few of the priority projects, which are close to my heart, and which projects I follow more closely and from the numbers that my colleague Lajos Szűcs said that NMHH has managed responsibly, both its revenues and budgetary resources have served media awareness and the protection of minors, so the KDNP fraction will support the closing account. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-11-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Potocskané Anita Kőrösi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Media awareness, online awareness. I think that these are very nice and sound words that you have said here in connection with the discussion of the closing accounts of the NMHH, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2020. I think we agree that this would be necessary, although there are always debates between us in the implementation, if we look at the year 2020, where the brainwashing government propaganda worked for more than a hundred billion forints, which cannot provide enough help for public information or media awareness, even with this amount. Please allow me, because we have told you many times what is the problem with public media, and what is the problem with it when you say how well the public media itself informs people. This comparison is nothing more than when we are in our constituency and small settlements, and we find that the people living there, especially the elderly, are absolutely unaware of what is going on in the country. Five years ago, there was a movement called Prints. a movement that is trying to replace what you have not been able to achieve in the last few years from a hundred billion forints. That's your print too. a registered weekly paper that sends the real news to each mailbox. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] He's already on page 225. What's the difference between the two? You inform the Hungarian people of hundreds of billions, and they have been maintaining this paper voluntarily from community donations for more than five years now. Let's see what the latest issue, 225, is about. I don't remember hearing about it in the public media. There's an epidemic, there's not enough vaccine, the government's powerless and secretive. The rain of money is due to the opposition. Clearly, the activity that you are doing now from the government's side, the enormous amount of budget resources allocated to small settlements through the Hungarian village, has nothing to do with anything other than that you are afraid of. Every fifth pensioner gets less than 100,000 a month. You also listen to this, and you will not inform me about it, even though this is exactly what public media would do to really deliver the news that Hungarians are interested in. Or, for example, the number of poor is rising again. You are deeply silent about the fact that millions of our countrymen live under extreme poverty. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 11 million!]] A hundred billion forints could tell people that. It's just, yeah, it's embarrassing for you. They bought an audit and a villa with money for Hungarians living across the border. I do not recall that Speaker László Kövér explained in the public media what these funds were spent on. First-to-last place in women's equality. You can sweep this under the rug, you can't talk about it. When we say what the job of the NMHH, the MTVA, is, I know my fellow Member will say that it would be a place in the Committee on Culture to talk about what the public media is talking about and what it is not that professional questions can be asked there. But I think that when we look at what 100 billion forints went to in 2020, it is important to put this aside that people can be informed from a few million forints, authentically. At last it should be avoided that people should be held in fear of public media, which is indeed a public service, in its name, that the community should be served, that the information of the Hungarian people should be served, that you have not done so. This was not the first year, 2020; it was visible that the entire media system was being used; it was the use of opportunities that made it impossible for people living in small towns in particular to be properly informed. So when I'm printing myself, you're printing! We're trying to get this week's paper to every mailbox by printing it, involving volunteers, because you're not doing what you're authorized to do. [[9.20]] The public media, once again, is used to inform the community, the Hungarian people. In 2020, but also before and in 2021, and the next agenda, the discussion of the 2022 budget has even masked the appearance that any progress would be made that I really want to inform people. I will give you just one example from 2021: there was a pre-election that took place with the movement of nearly a million people, our Hungarian countrymen. If the public media had zero reports of this for several months, what do you call it? Information? No! We call it the silence of the truth. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-11-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Peter Hoppál. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Do not fool anyone, the agenda under discussion is the draft law on the closure of the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2020. We're in the middle of this. As every year, we need to emphasise this year, too, that, contrary to the narrow opinion-making of honourable opposition representatives, we are talking about a very large system, a budget for a large state subsystem and the implementation of budgetary appropriations. This large public sub-scheme for 2020 shows four sub-schemes for achieving the originally planned budget adopted here by law in 2019. These four major chapters, four sub-budgets included in the NMHH draft discharge law, we have already heard that the budget of the Authority itself, the fulfilment of the appropriations and, on the other hand, the budgetary performance of the Media Council as a separate body, the third part, the appropriations managed by the Media Council and managed by it, from which its programmes can be carried out by the Media Council with a very diverse function. The Media Council's task of a rich state field trip is for the benefit of society as a whole. Of these, I would like to highlight the large support budget for filmmaking, documentary filmmaking and animation filmmaking in the cultural area. The fourth large item or large circle in this budget line is the budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. This is the fourth point, the MTVA shortcut or the last movement, which always ruffles the mood in the debate of the law. At the same time, let us look beyond what has already been said here, what has happened in the world, in Europe and in Hungary in 2020. The Covid pandemic was accompanied by very necessary closures already in the spring of 2020. As a result, the organizers postponed the holding of a number of world events by one year. We know and remember very much that we were looking forward to the possible appearance of our Hungarian Olympics in the Tokyo Olympics, but the Olympics' organizing team decided that the International Olympic Committee had decided that, due to the pandemic, the Olympics would not be organized in 2020 and would be postponed for a year this summer, 2021. A similar decision was also made with regard to one of the biggest sporting events with international attention, the European Football Championship, which should also have been held in 2020, but was also postponed for one year, 2021. Obviously, it has had an impact on the budget of many state sub-schemes, especially the budget implementation of the NMHH in 2020 has not had to be produced in connection with the Olympics or the European Football Championship. This has changed their budget very significantly, which has also had to be amended after the adopted law in 2019. I think that these four large independent chapters or individual budgets, which are put together into a truly powerful state budget subsystem, deserve all our respect and praise, that by designing a budget that is moderate in international comparison, it has done excellently; because there is no significant difference in the implementation of the budget compared to the modified planning. I think that from here too, we should give the President of the NMHH and the whole organization a great thanks to each political side that, during the very difficult budget period in 2020, during the very strong presence of the two waves of the pandemic, they were able to complete their big budget planning without any significant difference, and the content work continued, which created rich values for Hungarian culture and Hungarian society. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-11-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposals before us contain the figures of the budget for 2020 of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the Media Council and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund and the plans for 2022. But I could have put it shorter if I had given you the title that these are wasteful propaganda budgets in the past and in the future. We see that the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and MTVA's budget increased without limits in 2020 and the same situation in 2022. However, recent developments that we cannot go without saying so. For example, the removal of the frequency of the Clubradio or the resignation of Dr. Monika Karas, the president of the NMHH and the Media Council. These are only seemingly independent events, but in fact they are for the same party-state media monopoly. They're part of a fidesz plan. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: What is party state?]] In the frequency contests, candidates who were independent of power were excluded or qualified as invalid and where government critical opinions could be expressed. The Klubradio also appeared to have pierced the government's eye. So much for the fact that I quote, they would never object to silence those who disagree with you. And Monika Karas's voluntary resignation was due to the sly and anti-democratic consideration that Fidesz could elect the new president of the NMHH and Media Council for another nine years before the fall of the spring. This is a disregard of the will of the voters, since they are taking away the opportunity for the new Parliament to set up in the spring to decide on one of the most important public positions. This is a category of malicious abuse of rights. And then let us look at how these organisations, which are loyal to the government, have nothing to do with public service. Seeing each item, the so-called public media pays very well to lick the fidesz plate. The Parliament raised the public service contribution from 75 billion to 85 billion forints in 2020. I note that in 2022 this amount has increased to HUF 110 billion, and next year it will be HUF 130 billion. It's just outrageous! Personal benefits and remnant expenses have also shown an amazing rise. The amount of labour expenditure in 2020 was almost HUF 60 billion. Let's not forget, you spent a terrible amount of money on propaganda in the year of the first and second wave of the Covid epidemic; in the year when tens of thousands were unemployed, and your government didn't help them. [[9.30]] The whole country fought to survive, but you felt sorry for the money from the people. They felt sorry for the money to increase the amount of job search support to at least HUF 100,000 per month and the payment from three months to nine months. The Fidesz is sorry for the money for 100 percent of the sick money. Fidesz is sorry for the money for mass testing and contact research. But 85 billion forints were scattered with easy money into the public media almost no one looked at. I'll say it again: 85 billion forints were thrown out for public media propaganda. And if we look at the budget planned for next year, it is clear from the proposal that there will be parliamentary elections in 2022. Fidesz clearly wants to put propaganda to the top, and they don't feel sorry for the taxpayers' money. The NMHH increases the amounts during all major budgetary periods. Personal benefits exceed 11 billion, an increase of around 23 percent compared to the figures for 2020. Much more will be spent on work and other operational expenditure. The Media Council can also operate with about 10 percent more money in 2022 than it did last year. We are talking about the Media Council where pro-government representatives refuse to elect opposition members. None. We're talking about a truncated body, but we have to spend more and more on them. Apparently, they're licking your plate there. MTVA can also farm with unprecedented money next year. It is about the television and radio that worked effectively, impartially and internationally, from only HUF 20-30 billion in 2010. By next year, Fidesz wants to spend some 130 billion forints of taxpayers' money. You don't care that while the budget is growing five to six times, the audience is moving in the opposite direction, it's only five to six of the previous ones. Let us be clear: Fidesz spends 130 billion on public media that no one wants to know about. Almost no one turns on the so-called public television, if they don't exactly broadcast a BL match or European or world championship qualifiers, then these channels are avoided by people. Let's just say it's not for nothing. Fidesz has reduced the Hungarian public media to a simple party mouthpiece. You are pouring 130 000 million forints into a system where there are regular forgery, unconceived embarrassing reports, and where the work is run by a court-appointed forger. This organisation can spend more than 22 billion people's expenses and some 78 billion people's expenses. Thus, it is understandable that the press report that pays 1.2 million forints a day on public television only for makeup, hairdresser and clothes. All of this rightly upsets people during a devastating epidemic. Look out the window! Hospitals are shutting down surgeries, tens of thousands of people are losing their jobs, and Fidesz has released a brutal price for shops and gas stations. We're about to have another wave of the plague, and you're about to throw away 130 000 million forints on your own. All I can say is that it's a disgrace and you should be ashamed of yourselves. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: That's not the agenda.]] Shame on you who votes for this, and shame on those propagandaists who lick your plate bright for this money. The MSZP does not support the adoption of the proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-11-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-11	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I think that the pro-government representatives should not be surprised if the opposition, expressing its opinion, did express its criticism and drew attention in vain to the fact that the irresponsible spending, which is also reflected in this accounts, was completely unjustified and would not have been necessary if we had lived in a rule of law. All they do here is finance a party-state media system with taxpayers' money. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] And by the way, they silence and silence the opposition. You do not contribute in any way, and I sincerely wonder at the attitude of my fellow Members in Parliament to allow this to happen, that, for example, opposition representatives should not appear on the state's TV or radio, which you have financed. They're shutting him out. [[Nacsa Lárinc: You've been disqualified!]] Yes, that's right, fellow Member. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The way you're yelling at me that I'm locked out of there. I would like to point out that not only I, but also many of my fellow Members, have been excluded, and the opposition has protested that media freedom, freedom and not just Members of Parliament, because they have a duty to fight for this, but people who do not have access to information... because you, using this source, are denying and concealing from people the reality that this organization should otherwise convey. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál and Lőrinc Nacsa intervene.]] About everything that you have... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, if you will help me with this, that is right, thank you very much, because it is difficult for my fellow members who are pro-government to take note of all this, and I therefore think that you should not be surprised if our opinion is on this in Parliament, contrary to what you have said. We were talking about the year we were talking about, as my fellow Member mentioned earlier: they silenced the Clubradio, shut it down, and they did not let it broadcast, but they took away the national opportunity in several steps, while, by the way, it had a quasi-service function, much more than the responsibility of a private radio. And, as I say, we're talking about the year they spent the money, when, yes, it practically worked as a party state TV, it worked as a radio, it worked as a medium. This period includes the last full period of Monika Karas and, at a budget committee meeting, I could say that she was there with a corresponding arrogance and, among other things, refused to answer questions. Therefore, I think it would be better if they could not change this attitude, going backwards, but in the future, I am quite certain that they should. But if it doesn't, I think the change of government will help. Among other things, I would like to highlight one of the issues that have been raised at this meeting, because it is of particular importance when the Media Council has not examined the case of MTVA recording. This recording was about not supporting opposition cooperation in public television and should be based on a corresponding narrative. And for those who don't like it, you can quit. You can say that, right, there's a director and editor of MTVA. So the President, I think, and the Council should have started an immediate investigation in the light of the media law. In any case, the President refused to answer that question. Moreover, a long debate has arisen on this matter, regardless of whether we are in a particular situation in Parliament, the Budget Committee on the aspect of the discharge law, and the Cultural Committee on the content side, are discussing this whole situation separately. I continue to believe that the Act on discharge in itself and the use of such resources are unacceptable, and therefore the Democratic Coalition faction does not support the adoption of this law. [[9.40]] At the same time, we expect them to give a meaningful answer to the questions and to take action against obvious lawlessness. This concerns, in particular, the possibility for the opposition to speak in the context of freedom of the press, that there must be a way and opportunity for the opposition to speak on these channels, but you, I would say, will also prevent this as a continuation of their electoral fraud. I am deeply sorry that as Members of Parliament, they are acting in such a way as to deny their oath, and you are letting this happen in this way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-11-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Szabolcs Szabó's speech now follows. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-13	Thank you very much for the floor. I would also like to start with what several of my fellow Members have already said here on the pro-government side and on the opposition side, that we are basically talking about four items for the year 2020: NMHH, Media Council, Media Council appropriations and MTVA. So I would note only in parentheses that the argument will be forgotten that if someone here mentions MTVA, they are not talking about the presentation, because part of it... this is interesting that Peter Hoppál started by saying that, but this is about NMHH, and then he himself said the same thing that I just said, so he managed to put a tiny logical loop into the argument. I'd like to talk about two things in substance. Let us first look at the specific figures, and then, in line with the established practice of the general debate here in Parliament, I would like to talk a little bit about the general framework of the proposal. Let's start with the specific numbers. This is about the closure and implementation of the 2020 budget. If you look at the four tables that the presentation contains, very interesting conclusions can be drawn. They said very precisely from the pro-government side that in three areas, if you look only at the figures, you can actually say that these organisations were responsible for farming, because they spent less than what was included in the estimate. This also applies to the NMHH, the Media Council and the Media Council's appropriations, there has been significant savings everywhere. In the Media Council's appropriations, if you look at its proportions, about 25 percent of what was available according to the budget was not spent. I note in parentheses that if you look at the tables in detail, you may be a little surprised that NMHH has an additional amount of around 44 billion that just appears in the table. But he who knows the operation of the NMHH and the accounting procedures knows that this means accounting for the savings of the previous years as revenue, so there really is no accounting problem, and we could also say what was said on the pro-government side about how responsible they were. Yeah, but there's the fourth movement, and they've been quiet about it. There is MTVA, whose initial allocation was 93.4 billion, so this was the original proposal, the initial allocation, and now they have managed to spend 101.7 billion. So there's an extra 8.3 billion in spending! So when we talk about the 2020 pandemic, you also said to everyone that there was a crisis, that everyone should think a little bit about their spending; when they took away their revenue from the municipalities, you constantly referred to this when the opposition mayors told you why they were taking away their funds, your argument was that there is a world crisis here, and the crisis related to the corona virus, everyone should take their share of the common costs, so don't complain to the mayors. Compared to that, MTVA will be given an extra 8.3 billion, even more. Because if you look at the chart, it turns out that they should have made HUF 8.4 billion of their own revenue according to their budget, according to the original estimate. [[Peter Hoppál: Covid!]] Now, they managed to make 6.2 of that. So they were able to achieve less advertising revenue and commercial revenues than in the appropriations, but then you did not conclude that it would be worth switching to a little more stringent farming and, let's say, saving somewhere in the internal organisation in operation, but said that not only would the loss of trade revenue be replaced by the central budget, but also by an additional 8,3 billion. Let's assume that you own or exercise ownership rights with a company that doesn't fulfill its appropriations in a given year, but comes in an extra year, and keeps its grip on making an additional 10 percent of the aid available to the owner, because unfortunately, this is how the circumstances turned out. To be honest with you, if I had never owned a company before, but if I had a company like this where I was practicing ownership rights, and the manager came to me, unfortunately, the rahedli that he got wasn't enough, and he wouldn't rationalize his farming, but I would put him in as the owner, and I would fire him right away. It's the same with MTVA. He produces the content for the Duna Media Service Provider and operates MTI, and the rest, we all know that, but they didn't conclude then that he would rationalize its operation, but he held his hand to all of us and to almost ten million Hungarian taxpayers. It can be said that Covid, of course, as Congressman Hoppál says, is only the case that, in such a situation, when I manage with a lot of money, with an enormous amount of money, I rationalize. I will talk about this in connection with the next presentation, but I will say this here in advance, as an example, that if we look at the large media Holdings that operate in Hungary, which operate half a dozen or more television channels in Hungary, they were able to operate in 2020 even making profits, with half the money and with less than half the money. So it is possible to run the media profitablely in Hungary, not to hang on the public breasts completely unilaterally and wait for the taxpayers' money. You can farm, you just have to appoint a responsible leader. That's the big problem with this proposal, isn't it? MTVA didn't manage to be responsible. That is why this discharge proposal is unacceptable. And there's another side to it. Let's look at the next presentation in a little bit more detail about the Media Council and the NMHH, but now, if we have so much agreed on the previous speeches, let's mention here that there is, for example, the Media Council and the Authority, which, according to the law, would also be responsible for achieving balanced information in the Hungarian media and thus in the public service media. I would just like to indicate that, in the year 2020 on which this proposal is being made, the Media Council submitted to the Hungarian Parliament, according to its own report, procedures have been conducted on the basis of balanced complaints. Do you know, fellow Members, how many complaints you have not rejected? Zero! This means that as many complaints have been received by the Media Council or the Authority regarding the lack of balance of information in the Hungarian media in certain programmes, on certain channels, all of them either rejected without substantive or substantive examination, or examined, but they said that this was okay, they cannot even interfere with this. That's what they usually refer to. And just as an interesting fact, but I'll tell you, I'll talk a little bit more about the next presentation, so balance is not considered important, all the complaints were rejected; they were smart enough to punish, say, a Hungarian television channel because, according to them, the Miss Marple series was badly classified according to age categories. [[9.50]] So what doesn't bother them is what's going on, let's say, on the public media news, and then I'll give you specific numbers in my next comment, and then you can be terrified of the proportions on the opposition-government side; what bothered them was that an elderly woman in St. Mary Mead was investigating murders on a television show. In order to be nice to KDNP representatives, St. Mary Mead in Hungarian, by the way, the Holy Mary meadow, so we can call it Hungarian. So, it's pretty amazing how the Media Council works. And then there's MTVA, which is really amazing. I will bring you more detailed quotes on the next presentation, but I would like to comment in more detail on what Congressman Varju has already mentioned, just to taste what work is going on in MTVA; Balázs Bende was the editor from whom a recording was made, so he says it with his own voice. Balázs Bende said the following in an editorial meeting, so not in a pub, beer, editorial meeting with colleagues. Quote from him: at the end of May, there are parliamentary elections in Europe, and I am sure that no one will be caught off guard if I say that they do not support opposition cooperation in this institution. If that statement comes out of the blue, go home now. For those who are not unexpected, the statement that the institution, if it supports it, means that we are all working accordingly. This very simply means that here, either according to the narrative of Fidesz, the materials are going down and they're getting ready, or you can go home nicely. You told me that very nicely. But another quote goes on; in the same session, Balázs Bende, also still works at MTVA to this day, I watch his fantastic show. Quote: we cannot expect to be left out of political material, primarily migration, primarily Brussels and others. Whoever wants to hear anything here, I'm gonna make it worse: there will be no exception. If you are assigned, you may be assigned the right narrative, along the right method and direction to write material about it. The situation remains that anyone who doesn't like this has to go in to the boss, give up his resignation, and leave, no one has to work here. This is what you are paying for, and according to the year 2020 closure, you managed to pay 95.5 billion from state budget resources. That's 95,500 times a million. So specifically in Székesfehérvár, for example, where about that many people live, 95 thousand and a few hundred people, for each resident, for everyone who lives there in Székesfehérvár, a million forints could be given one by one. That's how much money we're talking about, and that's how much money we're talking about. That is the problem with this proposal, and that is why I will not vote for it. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-11-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask Congressman Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament, if you'd like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-11-15	Deep down, Mr President. Dear House, Well, it's certainly comforting that, as in the Moricka joke, everything always comes to mind the same thing, and they don't see that practically a holding company has been created that captures a fairly significant part of its media content. Naturally, each year, these organisations must have some kind of directional direction, as the world is developing, and every year this organization tries to meet the challenges of social media and communications. I still remember the times in the media council when this balance was the other side's own, and then there was absolutely nothing wrong with it. And we might be able to give some more memories of what content could be done recently. Another question is that when, after the autumn speech in 2006, protesters at that time tried to get into the headquarters, they called it a mob, and a few years later, Members tried to get in in in a similar way, and they almost declared themselves heroes. It's a bit of a dichotomy, of course, but it's definitely interesting. I have to say that the Committee on Budgets, as the rapporteur of the bill, considered it a professional issue and continues to consider that the proposed bill was in line with the requirements from a budgetary point of view. In this regard, no wrong words or sentences have been said, not even by my fellow opposition Members, so much so, and I would ask you to support the bill in the final vote after the discussion. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-11-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the bill on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2022 until closure. Presentation by the Committee on Budgets T/17318. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I would like to inform you that the representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to present a position during the debate in the context of this item. I shall now give the floor first to Mr Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament, the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-17	Deep down, Mr President. Thank you very much. Of course, I would like to say once again to all of us that, since the media authority cannot submit a bill on its own, it is therefore the Committee on Budgets that can do so. Thus, the strange situation could arise that it would be the chairman of the committee who would present this bill and give the speech. In any event, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority should cover its expenditure from its own revenue and from its central budget contribution. According to law, the Authority's single budget includes both the budget of the NMHH, the Media Council of NMHH and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. The president of the NMHH sent the budget, which was negotiated by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting on 18 October, to the Parliament by 10 yeses and 3 non-votes and without abstentions. The total budget of the NMHH is expected to be HUF 47.8 billion in 2022. In particular, we are talking about four large groups, the first being personal benefits and their contributions and taxes. Thus, the appropriation of personal allowances is HUF 11.24 billion, while the contributions and social contribution tax are included in the plan for HUF 1.94 billion. The proposal sets out a headcount of 710, which represents a 1.4 percent increase. The reason for the increase in the number of staff is that the Authority's mandate will be extended in 2022 with more new tasks, which justifies the recruitment of additional staff. The new tasks are: to operate data-wipe application, to authorise electronic plans for the first phase of a communications project and to upload existing permits to the news media registration system; to combat the dissemination of online terrorist content 2021/784. Tasks arising from the implementation of Regulation No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The sum of the expenditure in rem is expected to be HUF 16.2 billion in 2022. Other operating expenses amount to HUF 14.32 billion. [[10.00]] Investment spending amounts to a significant share of HUF 4.1 billion of planned investment expenditure, as well as investments in the IT field, ensuring a smooth process of measuring services. The revenue side is also HUF 47.8 billion. So it's the same as the expense page. The main revenues of the NMHH are the charges paid for the use of the frequency, the connection and use of the identifiers, the supervisory fee, the procedural fees and the fines collected. The second large group is the budget of the Media Council for 2022. The planned amount to cover the operating costs of the Media Council remains HUF 195.8 million. This includes the staff allowances and contributions of the Media Council of five members, as well as the expert framework for their professional activities. The third group is appropriations managed by the Media Council. The total revenue and expenditure of these appropriations is HUF 1.9 billion. Last, a few words about MTVA's budget for 2022. In the 2022 budget plan, revenues amount to HUF 123.6 billion, of which commercial revenues amount to HUF 6.5 billion. The most significant revenue is the public service contribution from the central budget, which will be HUF 110.7 billion next year. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In the light of what we have just said, it can be concluded that the bill is well founded and that the explanatory memorandum is sufficiently detailed, which is why I propose that the bill be discussed and subsequently adopted. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-11-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Peter Hoppál. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the debate on the bill on the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's single budget for 2022, we cannot ignore the fact that in recent years the implementation of the planned budgets has taken place within the margin of error, and we therefore consider it very important that the next year's planning can fill legislation with confidence. Each of the four sub-budgets referred to by the author contains elements which include certain improvements. It is clear that the necessary revenue for the planning of various expenditures in rem and wage-like expenditure in the budget of official activity will also have to be made available this year, the following year as well. There is no significant planning shift in the management appropriations of the Media Council and the Media Council compared to the budget carried out in the previous year. As regards MTVA, which is always in the crossfire of opposition attacks, close cooperation can be seen in the unified four-item budget planning with the three pre-budget chapters just mentioned. I believe that both the NMHH and the Media Council, the appropriations of the Media Council and the planned budget figures of the MTVA can be considered realistic in the light of the macroeconomic figures shown in 2022, and I therefore highly recommend to my fellow Members that we support and accept this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-11-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Potocskané Anita Kőrösi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the previous item, we have made the main arguments with my opposition fellow Members on the basis of which we will not be able to support either the 2020 discharge or the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2022. However, I think it is important to note what my fellow Members have already pointed out that, in the context of the 2022 budget, it is clear that the NMHH has prepared an election budget. In this budget, which, by the way, contains four sub-budgets, four sector budgets, indeed, as my fellow Member Hoppál said, it is the budget of MTVA that raises questions with the opposition. Obviously, if you look at the achievements of the previous years and the central resources indicated for the operation of the public media, you will find that the resources that can be used for MTVA will rise again, and they want to spend HUF 130.1 billion on the operation of the public media in 2022, in the year of the parliamentary elections. As I said in my previous speech, the public media is responsible for the public service, and you know it very well, and you also put it on paper, and you believe yourself, or you wish to make the Hungarian people believe that this public media is really working among them. And we find that this is not good for anything but for misinformed people. I would like to refer once again to the fact that, as I did in my previous speech, as long as you wish to run the public media, MTVA and the conglomerate that you have already spent more than 100 billion forints on in 2021 and 2020, there is a publication, a weekly newspaper that volunteers operate, runs from community micro-donations, for a very small fraction of your media empire, and by distributing volunteers, you too! publication in which we try to inform the inhabitants of small towns, who unfortunately cannot catch any other channel than M1 and Duna TV and the channels through which nothing else is spilling on them but the government propaganda. This is the paper that we are trying to counterbalance the huge media counterwind that we are experiencing in opposition parties, and in this we are fighting together, once again, with volunteers so that credible and real news can reach every household. Of course, as I said on the previous agenda, we cannot support either the 2020 discharge or the 2022 budget for the NMHH, because there is clearly nothing else they want to achieve but more money, thus continuing government propaganda and brainwashing. And for that, we don't give our names. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-11-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As my colleague Lajos Szűcs said here, I do not wish to repeat these issues, but I would like to respond to you in a few things, because even though a lie is often repeated, it does not become the truth. So I understand this tactic and this way that you chose in today's debate, but that doesn't make it justice. I also understand that László Varju feels uncomfortable about crying back the old period when it was really party time, doesn't he?He regularly cries back at the time when a hundred percent of the communist ideology, socialism, was declared compulsory by all media, and when you were on government in the nineties and then after 2002, when 90 percent of the media in Hungary were influenced by Nap TV, honourable Member, you must have loved the very balanced, objective and independent programmes of Sun TV as a public service. That's what you called the Sun TV, public service. [[10.10]] I understand that you are crying back those times, and you think that it is democratic and balanced if 90% of your party propaganda is heard by the Hungarian media, but I think that there is a much more colorful, much more balanced situation in the Hungarian media today. Now I wouldn't bring here the Jobbik faction's own home pages, Alpha-news, Zsúrpubi, such as, since the congresswoman has already promoted various newspapers, but obviously she forgot to mention the embarrassing portals funded by you through a party foundation and faction. Szabolcs Szabó, who has already entered, and I don't know if he has joined, but he starts in Momentum colours, he regularly publishes various posts in social media with Momentum logo, and he obviously considers it desirable that a party president simply goes into editorials and threatens journalists, as he has given his name as a new-born strong man. Obviously, what your party president is doing is an example for you. Decide, my fellow Members, because I feel a crack in the great collapse here that no one is watching MTVA now, or everyone is watching it, and that is why you must act. There have just been conflicting allegations here. Congressman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi said that we need different initiatives because many people only get public media, and then Zita Gurmai stood up and said that no one would watch for that kind of money anyway. [[Anita Kőrösi: That's right!]] Then decide whether there are many people watching or no one watching. These contradictions should be resolved. What was written to Gurmai Zita in the MSZP press department, let me not classify it separately. You are talking about tens of thousands losing their jobs today, tens of thousands losing their jobs, while not so many people have worked since the regime change, my fellow Members, 4.7 million employees. And that's what you're saying, while you've been covering for many months for Lajos Kamuvideo, you've been covering for the fake statistics during the plague, the lies of Szabó Timea. The people have not been given fair information from you. During the epidemic, I think, and this is not only true of public media, a number of media with different commitments, your left-wing medium, have brought the news about the epidemic with honor, they have brought down the latest measures of the government, they have promoted and helped the vaccination campaign. This is where you come in, and through your social media, you keep making false news. They were campaigning against vaccines, here I would like to highlight László Varju specifically [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame!]] [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame!]] They've been campaigning against vaccinations, publishing fake statistics, fakes. So if someone in an epidemic situation, when credible and accurate information is particularly important, tried to undermine credible and accurate information, then they were you as opposition block. (Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame!) It was you who, through your Facebook site, through various press organisations, have constantly undermined people's confidence in disease control measures, their confidence in vaccinations, and have been doing so for more than a year and a half, my fellow Members. What you so strongly propose, the European Parliament, was yesterday that you voted for the first time in person after 21 months. You have spread that the Hungarian Parliament is not working. After 21 months, the European Parliament voted for the first time in person, by which time it was able to organise in the institution to vote in person and to exercise the rights of its representatives for which they were elected.
u2021-11-11-24	Mr Congressman, I am very pleased that the European Parliament voted yesterday, but I would prefer to have the debate on what is actually mandatory under the title.
u2021-11-11-25	Yes, Mr. President. You do not mention the NMHH's online child protection round table, the hotline service created to combat online harassment, legal aid, media awareness and online awareness campaigns, which I think are extremely important initiatives. You guys are very quick to overlook that it doesn't matter. I know that, apart from my better fellow Member, you have not even agreed to support the Child Protection Act because why would you support online child protection initiatives that the NMHH has been doing this year and will continue to do next year? It's in black and white in the budget that you want to be more and more present in these areas, and I think that's your job, this is an important initiative. For example, there are professional proposals for the government and for our fractions about what needs to be done, for example, in the field of online child protection. That is the big question, my honourable fellow Member, that we can continue to make progress on these issues in the next period. 'Cause what we're seeing is that a bunch of harassment cases, assault cases were transferred to the Internet because of anonymity, because of the different protections, these kinds of crimes were transferred to the Internet. It is important to prevent these things, it is important that we act. This is why the various proposals of the NMHH were important on this issue, and therefore we expect the various proposals of the NMHH to continue next year, when they will manage and work from the budget we are discussing. On these matters, my fellow Members, as far as 2022 is concerned, do not speak at all and do not consider these matters to be of any importance. I'm not surprised because you don't think child protection is important, it was clear from your votes. But I ask you to think, when, in this way, the entire institutional system, the NMHH, the MTA, everything, the people working there, many people, hundreds of people who are working on it, for example, what my fellow Member has said is that next year there will be more work to be done to prevent the spread of online terrorist content. There'll be more work to be done. You are constantly dehonesting, scolding, and I do not know what signs these people are rated by, who are working to increase Hungary's media awareness, to prepare professional quality programmes, to have supervision and, yes, the age limit. Szabolcs Szabó may make fun of the fact that someone is paying attention to age ratings, but this is also a form of child protection so that we do not have access to content that is not available to our children in 12 years, in 8 years, in 16 years, in 18 years. I understand that your liberal thinking doesn't allow us to set some kind of limit, and someone tells their own child that my dear boy, my little girl, you can't watch this because it's not right for you, I understand that you're making fun of this, but I think it's important that NMHH does make signals when it's not classified as age, a show, a movie, a series, anything. I think it's important. When you can see all kinds of movies at all ages on online streaming services, it is written in the top corner for a second how they recommend it, but it is not there throughout the show, during the broadcast time, what age classification is, I do think that if you meet the wrong level of content, it can affect it, it can have a negative impact on it. I would like to thank professionals for the work they have done on the classification of our children in films, series, stories, whatever they achieve, and they do care to protect them from content that, due to their age, would not be suitable for them. I ask you not to constantly label these people, not to constantly make these people a mockery, but to thank them at least for their work, even if you do not agree with child protection, even if you do not agree with online child protection, thank them for their work, because I think what they are doing is important. My fellow Members have already spoken about the 2022 budget, and I will not list the figures again, and the KDNP fraction will support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-11-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr László Varju, is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-27	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. After speaking to Congressman Nacsa, I think that there is a great temptation to respond to everything he has said by 95 percent, but what would happen then is that we would not talk about the agenda at all, which is about the budget of the media authority next year. I don't want to fall into that mistake, but I really do find it funny, with great calmness and complete determination that doesn't have anything to do with reality. He's doing this pretty professionally, by the way, week after week, subject matter, but that's the kind of life we live. It's called fake news production, and sooner or later, you're gonna be scanned out of places like this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who will scan you? He's threatening me.]] I would only like to draw attention to one thing from your contradictions. He talked a lot about child protection. Just yesterday, I was in a position to talk to the head of an institution about the contradiction that you have produced, that while the work is included in the required readings, it should be read, but for the theatre performance presenting the same work, because of its age-limited classification, the children cannot be taken because they cannot take it there. [[10.20]] So from now on, you're more concerned with disturbing people than with solving them, and you don't call it child protection. We think it's quite different. So, how does this appear in the media authority's budget? Overall, I think that the irresponsible management that has been carried on has continued, but with a tendency that, over the last ten years, the budget of the previous HUF 40,000 million has been made by now... and add all the numbers, although they try to separate them or keep them separate, since the government's budget of HUF 47 800 million is to be added to the budget of HUF 130 141 million. So, overall, when we talk about this, people in this area have to decide and spend nearly 180 billion forints. The details of this would be sensible and worthwhile if we did not, by the way, come from the very controversial basis that Vice-President Lajos Szűcs and Member Mr Szűcs mentioned by keeping the government away from this budget. This was submitted by the Parliament's Committee on Budgets. Dear House, I would like to point out that only pro-government representatives have been involved in supporting this decision and that this cannot be supported by opposition representatives. In addition, you have ignored all of our suggestions, solely and unilaterally, in fact with very strong hypocrisy. I can't see this as anything else, and I can't find any progress in it in recent years, and now in this last one, that they would otherwise have deviated from that attitude. They do not seek balance, they do not seek account of it on the authority, they do not give it, they do not create an opportunity for media freedom and freedom of the press to prevail. This is a completely one-sided Fidesz state budget, which has been put together in this way and spends nearly HUF 180 billion on this. Therefore, in this form of the budget, as I have mentioned before, either at a committee meeting or here, it is inconvenient for us overall and, in detail, there are examples of how it should not be done. I therefore respectfully reassure everyone that if László Varju, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, presented a budget proposal for the Authority, I would strive to achieve in the committee the balance that is worthy of reflecting the composition of the Parliament. You are completely ignoring this, which is why this law is unacceptable and unsupportable. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-11-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have the first independent representatives to come forward. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-29	[[No microphones.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Oops, it's off!
u2021-11-11-30	We'll wait for the congressman to put the microphone on. Reset the clock, please.
u2021-11-11-31	I'm sorry, I've been careless. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, it was clear from the contributions of colleagues that, while we were discussing the closure, closure and implementation of the 2020 budget year, we are discussing the budget figures planned for the future, so we are discussing the figures for 2022, as well as the appropriations of NMHH, Media Council, Media Council and MTVA. I'd like to start with a brief comment in parentheses. I will not stop to make a brief remark to Congressman Varju. Congressman Szűcs and I have talked about this many times, and I always tell this story. I think I told Congressman, too, but I'll say it again. For example, I remember that in 2006, when the MTV headquarters was being besieged there, György Baló had this big evening political debate show, Este or something called Ferenc Juhász and Tibor Navracsics arguing. Now imagine that Congressman Varju is arguing with Congressman Hollik, for example, this evening. Well, guess what, because he's not even invited, not just him, no one. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: They called him just for today, but he didn't come! Laszlo Varju: What? President's ringing.]] Now, that's the interesting thing about this whole story. By the way, it's very interesting that people are invited to MTVA through you, or how does that work? It's just Congressman Nacsa here has a little bit of a cry. [[László Varju: Ghosting!]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, and that's all I reacted quickly to. So, that's the problem, because lately, by twisting the minds of opposition representatives, Bálint Rotyis and Dániel Deák and similar so-called experts, I'll come back to that later. But let's look at the specific figures, after all, we are talking about the 2022 budget. Here, from the pro-government side, it has already been said that these figures are perfectly correct, because we actually see roughly the same amount of money on the four appropriations as before. Well, not exactly. I looked at the specific numbers. For NMHH, in particular for the Authority, in 2021, the appropriation was 40.7 billion, now we see 47.8 billion for 2022, an increase of almost 20 percent. In the case of the Media Council, this year's initial budget for 2021 is 641 million, and next year we see 695 million in this material. Well, that's worth it, too. You always have to look at ratios, Congressman. So compared to 641 695 million, among friends 54 million, and if you look at how many percent of 54 million, let's say 641, can be interpreted. So if your salary is increased by that percentage from one year to another, you're saying it's a regular raise. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] Yes, because they voted for a very funny proposal. Mr. Congressman just said I'm saying this to someone who watches the broadcast that his salary has increased to a greater extent. Yes, because Fidesz MEPs have adopted a proposal that automatically increases Members' salaries, compared to gross average wage, three times the basic salary was voted by them. The Media Council's appropriations will grow from 1.7 billion to 1.9 billion, and from 117.7 billion to 130 141 billion for MTVA. Again, I can say that you can taste these numbers: 130 thousand times one million, here you could give a million forints to all the inhabitants of Győr, that is so much, so this is quite significant. Here, too, I can only tell you what was just right, for example, at MTVA, how much of this 130 billion forints you manage to generate as a commercial income. Well, a very ambitious HUF 7 billion was put into the draft. Interestingly, there is no government representative in the debate. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: No, you don't.]] as if there is such a rule that in the general debate there should be a national government. Maybe there's a special rule here.
u2021-11-11-32	There's nothing, Congressman. I have indicated to you that the government does not wish to participate. This is a committee proposal, and, in this sense, according to the house rules, the government does not have to be present, it is not compulsory.
u2021-11-11-33	I'm sorry, I was wrong. I just noticed there's no one from the government. State Secretary Major was just here. [[Dr. János Fónagy is talking at the expert box. For signal:]] Oh, he's here!
u2021-11-11-34	Otherwise, Secretary Major is here.
u2021-11-11-35	Yeah, I noticed before, the congressmen said. So, to get back to the point, the $7 billion ambitious proposal was put in for its own income. [[10.30]] Just for comparison, I checked, say, the Hungarian RTL Zrt. In its last closed full year, they include RTL Club, Cool TV, Film +, Music TV, RTL Gold, RTL II., RTL +, Series +, so quite a lot of channels, they managed to achieve exactly 41.2 billion revenues. But TV2 Media Group Zrt., just to say that it belongs to a prestigious media holding close to you: TV2, FEM3, Isaura TV, Jockey TV, Cinema +, Movie Universe, Prime, Spiler1, Spiler2, Super TV2, TV2 Comedy, TV2 Kids, TV2 Chef and Musicbutik, this is more channels than the public media on the television side, and they managed to achieve 45 billion revenue. I understand there's a difference, and we don't use the term "public media," because it's not a public media, it's a public media that you run, so there's a difference, obviously, in a lot of ways, but there's nothing to explain that there's such a big difference in revenue. So there's so many television channels and radios and hell knows what, it's safe to make public service media more ambitious, because 7 billion revenues are very, very little. Something's not right here. I'm just gonna signal it gently. That's the problem with basic numbers, I think. And then let's look at my problems. Once again, I would like to mention my problems with the Media Council and MTVA, because I have already indicated in my previous comment that you are not very good at your job. Then I gave an example that, for example, the Miss Marple series was strongly challenged, and therefore a channel was dissipated, while the last report said that in one year there was zero complaints about balanced information. I understand Congressman Nacsa is no longer in the room... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I'm here!]] Oh, I'm sorry, he's arrived and he's protesting that I'm mocking him. I watch the Miss Marple series, it's hard to say that it's not recommended for people under 16 years of age. But for example, my friends complained just the other day that they didn't like it, for example, that when youtube has a fairy tale on a fairy tale channel for the three or four-year-old, you have to watch your Gyurcsány show ads. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál and Lőrinc Nacsa intervene.]] So you'll have to deal with this, because this is a child protection matter, for example, so that you don't advertise it or buy the ad in such a way that you can tie it up without a 3-year-old child seeing it, because you can safely determine where to advertise it. Now, in the case of child protection, an innocent show, I don't think it's a mockery of what I said. But look at the specific numbers, it's more interesting. Again, so you don't get distracted, I'll give you two numbers, and then maybe that'll make sense to everyone. I didn't make it up, it's in the Media Council's own report in 2020 because it's the last one reported by the Media Council. [[Nacsa Lawrence: It's 2021! Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Sure, but it was just a technical comment that everyone knows what year we're talking about, because I can report from the last year, yes. You don't have to jump on everything right away, it was a perfectly harmless technical remark, so everyone knows what year the number refers to. So in the M1 News, the proportion of pro-government and opposition speakers seemed to be 20 percent opposition speaking time, the Fidesz plus government over 70 percent, 72, if I remember the exact number. This is interesting because a year earlier, opposition speaking time was still 32 percent. So we always say that the opposition is underrepresented, let's say, in the M1 News, we have now managed to take it from 32 to 20, and this speaking time, here we will never look at the content, and I say the same thing is the case with Tonight, and this morning and all their other political shows. That doesn't bother them. They write it in the report, but they refuse to do anything about it, just as they refused to speak in substance against the fact that they would not allow the creation of the KESMA media market distorting, which was simply left alone. While earlier RTL and Central Media were absolutely right to say that it would distort the market, they left without saying that you created the opportunity to create this particular KESMA. But they left without saying that in an interview, László Kövér abused women's representatives, left without saying that the public media was chasing the viewers against the homeless, for example, that there was no news of the opposition pre-election in the world at first, and then very hard at the end, so let's see, but still, only pro-government reactions appeared. And here I would refer back to what I started by saying a lot of things about 2006 and arguing about it calmly, but I was the one who saw it, when Tibor Navracsics was on TV when the TV station was besieged. I'd like to close by with a few quotes. I quoted from Balázs Bende on the basis of a recording, and now I would quote interviews from journalists and television professionals who worked in the public media earlier. A colleague spoke to Free Europe. He says, so quote, I didn't come up with it, so you have to start with the meanest recording. For example, the migrant stabs, kills, or Allahu cries out akbar. Then we have to tell the story, after which we have to add how many millions of migrants have already arrived in Europe and that there are millions more on the Balkan route, who will all be knocking on the borders of Hungary. That was the pattern. After such a news, one must follow, which showed how many people wanted to enter the Hungarian border, but the police caught the migrants. There is always a reliable security expert who repeated what was said earlier. If these are said many times, even those who are critical of Fidesz' immigration policy will start to believe. And so the quote goes on: There was at least ten times on the news, a video downloaded from YouTube that we couldn't figure out if it was real. There were times when a viewer from Germany called in, and in a news report, we presented something that didn't actually happen. But there was never a correction. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So these are regular reports, who are still willing to speak, colleagues working there or who used to work there. They clearly describe the central instructions they receive and the need to work according to the fidesz narrative. And it turns out that Balázs Bende clearly said that those who do not like this can be given notice because they do not have to work here. So there are problems of content. And once again, at the end of this, I would like to stress that, in terms of the total budget of MTVA, from HUF 130 billion, I have no doubt that you will vote for the budget from which budget support, which means that what taxpayers are putting in is exactly HUF 123 billion, 123,000 times 1 million. So it's a little much money. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-11-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! In my earlier speech, I made the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party clear, and I spoke about the so-called public media, which has become a fidesz propaganda, and I told you what we think about the operation and management of this lying and wasteful system in 2020. [[10.40]] I also explained how we feel about the fact that next year public media propaganda can lick the plate of Fidesz for 130 billion forints. I won't say any more. That's a shame. Thank you for listening and, of course, the MSZP cannot support it. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-11-11-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Hoppál. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-11-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the debate on the two laws which are linked to each other, we have not yet heard the facts that we have to look at the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2022 through other glasses, as we have just heard from the opposition speakers. Allow me to add some valuable information to the opinion-forming of the opposition. On the one hand, if we recall the number of public television channels operating in Hungary during the 2010 government change, we close our eyes, we think, and we already know that three worked at the time. After a few years, MTVA, which is part of this budget, has already increased its broadcasting of seven television channels instead of three public television broadcasts. So, my fellow Members, instead of the three public television channels, there is a huge difference between the seven public television channels. It is very exciting when our opposition fellow Members here start to win percentages, and even in a completely false way, it is said that, let's say, the wages of the Fidesz Members of Parliament are rising more than one of the partial budgets; shameful lies can, of course, be said, but not unpunished, because they are included in the minutes. The whole Hungarian payment condition over the last year, the rise in real earnings and the further drastic increase in the minimum wage as of January 1, is a matter of fact, an unbelievable fact, even if our honourable left-wing fellow Members are constantly trying to lie about it. But the fact that the number of broadcast television channels is rising from three to seven, so if we want to include this in statistics, as we have just heard, we have more than doubled the content of broadcasting, the production content and the surface and the budget of MTVA, see a miracle, it has not doubled, it has not more than doubled, it has increased by 30-40 percent in proportion. Well, that's a fantastic performance to praise, to lull, and to say that we can't imagine how MTVA and NMHH can otherwise produce this fantastic expansion, growth, growth and added value with so little money. I think that a fair approach would at least assume that. With regard to radio channels, too, if we quickly consider how many broadcasting channels were operating in 2010, three as well as television, and this has also increased, my fellow Members, there has been a fourth radio channel here since then, which also acts as a public service channel. And don't say that I'm not sure we need these extra channels. You'd be brave enough to stand in front of your own voters and tell them I'm sorry, we don't need a sports channel from tomorrow; sorry, we don't need a Duna World channel from tomorrow; sorry, we don't need a cultural M5 channel from tomorrow? Well, I'm sorry, but you should be responsible for your speeches and for what they say in Parliament about a proposal. I think that we should thank you, therefore, for these new content and these new channels are a fantastic rich contribution to the development of Hungarian identity and culture. And let me mention another very important episode that you're always very quiet about. The transformation of M2 and the transformation of the children's channel have been so fantastically successful that you know that you were chosen to be the best children's channel in Europe in the first year when MTVA transformed it? And do you know why there is no NMHH and MTVA on the M2 children's channel forbidding any advertising? In order not to poison Hungarian children, the content you wish to allow in charlatan ways. And that is why we owe thanks to NMHH and we thank MTVA outside the Authority for its view of Hungarian children, and for the fact that the education channel, the M5 channel and the M2 children's channel are paying close attention, with normative regulatory techniques, that only content that does not interfere with their spiritual and spiritual development comes to children. We know that we have heard from our fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, that the right-hand side of the left has not voted in favour of the Child Protection Act. It's a very big shame. And we know that you, through your foreign clients, are interested in bringing to Hungarian children content that hinders their spiritual and spiritual development. However, we are very pleased that MTVA is resisting this, and we are very pleased that such a children's channel, which has been earned worldwide high-ranking awards, has been created. News. We have heard from you the criticism of the public news industry. I think I assume that your united criticism of today's presentation is essentially limited to the production of news and the style of the M1 channel. But they're pouring the baby out with the bath water. What responsibility do you have before your constituents when the news channel, their gut hatred and criticism of M1 is embodied in the negative criticism of the children's channel, Duna TV, our fantastic radio programmes as a whole? It's shame and shame, it's shame. On the news, do you know how many news broadcasts were on all public television channels one day ten years ago, in 2010, during the period of the change of government? I'll tell you, there were four newscasts on the three public television channels at the time. Do you know how many news stations you can watch in one day on public television? Over 70, fellow Members. [[Anita Kőrösi: That's the problem! Laszlo Varju: And they're all lying!]] So the information, the information content [[László Varju: Sure! That's a lie! The president's ringing the bell.]] getting to people much more effectively [[László Varju intervenes.]] information, indeed, in which the news editors tell us and reveal that you are here, too, in your speeches. [[László Varju: Down! He's gonna expose me! That's right.]] Here, too, in their speeches, immigration is denied, the fact of illegal immigration is said here, by the speaker before me, and it is with criticism and regret that a news editor is talking about millions on the Balkan route and that they will get to the Hungarian fence and how many people are trying to cut the Hungarian fence illegally. This is what you think is an untrue news editing process and practice, and some kind of Fidesz propaganda. You are facing facts, not the government side, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, they say that you will be scanned if your period of government... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] This term was used in the previous speech. Well, what do you think you're doing? (Lőrinc Nacsa intervenes . ) You're here in Parliament talking like this, unpunished, about taking members of the government in handcuffs, and you're telling me you're being evicted from the media of the next era? [[On the mark of László Varju:]] Congressman, that's the term you used, look back at your video. And then you talk about election budgets and party state media propaganda, you guys? ! Well, it's a wonder they built this building well 115 years ago, and the ceiling is still in place. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] [[10.50]] Do you hear such sentences from your mouth that party-state media system or brainwashing government propaganda? Well, I'm sorry if you're gonna turn on the best children's channel in the world, is that what you're thinking? I think it would be more important for you to speak now, stand up and take stock of your last speeches, apologize and support the presentation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-11-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. She also asked for the opportunity to speak again from the Jobbik Group, Mrs Potocsáné Kőrösi Anita. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Hoppál said that we have a responsibility to what is being said here in the House. You said earlier that between 2010 and 2021 the broadcasting unit number of the public media increased from three channels to seven channels, but if we look at the budget, it increased by up to 30-40 percent. Well, I looked at the budget: in 2010 the budget of MTVA was 64 billion, HUF 64 billion 38 million 779 . Today we are talking about the budget of MTVA for HUF 130 billion in 2022, so that means that the budget of MTVA has doubled. It was an open confession that my fellow Member just told me that there are 70 news reports a day. It's nothing but your propaganda pouring out on people. And it's not just about the news and the M1, but when someone's watching Formula One or any sports show, what's going on? One-minute brainwashing propaganda with slogans that people in small towns can't throw away from reality because that's all they get. Not to mention the Kossuth radio. So, excuse me, yes, it is indeed good that this House is so stable, but what you are saying here is also a lie: it works for 130 billion instead of 64 billion. The fact that there's a children's channel, I think it's a very good thing. But the 70-80-year-olds living in the small settlement, who do not have access to the Internet, are unable to find information from anywhere else, only looking at the M1, on which, according to your declaration, 70 times a government propaganda is thrown at them. Is that what you think is authentic information? Is this public media? ! Excuse me, my fellow Member, but this is now an open confession to the fact that you are conducting brainwashing propaganda in Hungary for 130 billion. Now, in 2022, this will all be over! Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-11-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó asked for the floor.
u2021-11-11-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Just a few short reactions, Congressman Hoppál inspired me. On the one hand, I understand that the number of channels will not change from 2021 to 22 and their budget will increase by 13 billion from state resources. I don't understand the logic of why you refer to channel number expansion, and now that's the question, not what it was before. Now their budgets are increasing, and the number of channels is not changing. The other is the sports channels. I've had sports channels before, I've watched it so... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: State?]] Yes, you can. There were a lot of sports channels. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There were a lot of sports channels. I could watch every sports show and all of us. Now the difference is that we have to finance this, and in the break of the soccer game, I have to look at the half-minutes of hate that Congresswoman mentioned, because I like to watch the football game, it just annoys me that I have to watch the lies of MTVA during the break. By the way, the congresswoman is also right, but I can only confirm that we are not only talking about the M1, the Danube TV news is bringing the same numbers almost to the takk in terms of the proportion of pro-government opposition speakers. You can see it in the Media Council's report, but you can watch the news at Kossuth Radio, and you can watch all the news, chronicles, anything. Excuse me, when I quote a public media journalist on how they worked, how they worked, how he doesn't say I'm lying, he tells me what's real. Finally, a question about the 70 times a day newscasts that I understand, of course. Then one question: How many times has Orbán's speech been repeated about the peace procession? Well, that's why we had to do it for 130 billion, because we've done it a lot of times. Thank you very much. [[Anita Kőrösi and László Varju applauds.]]
u2021-11-11-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2021-11-11-45	Thank you very much. The matter of the moment has not been answered by the congressman. But I would ask you, if you have already lectured my fellow Member on what budget year we are talking about, you have been talking about the 2020 budget on numerous occasions, in this debate, not the previous item, but now. So this is the debate on the 2022 budget. Returning to YouTube, the Member also mentioned that this is a market service provider, so there you can pay for the non-advertising, you can watch it free of charge, and I will watch it free of charge. How many times did you tell us at the big collapsing meetings how many times Klara Dobrev speaks in a fabulous tone in front of the children's tales? I'm just asking, because you always consider yourself impartial, very fair and very objective, and that's how you try to introduce yourself. How many times have you told Congressman Varju and the other DK people how many times Dobrev Klara talks to the various actors on YouTube? For example, how many times have you spoken in person when you have people sitting very close to you who were part of the government that sold it and then hired the MTVA headquarters back in Freedom Square. He sold it for 4.4 billion to a Canadian investor and hired it back for 2 billion a year. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame!]] Do you think this was a good deal at the time, and do you think public service and good farming? Because you talked for five minutes about good farming, that if you had a company, what you would expect of the farmer, the manager, the economic director. Do you think it's the good farmer who sells it and actually hires it back for more than one? So where is the congressman's sense of justice, and how many times have his allies indicated these questions at such a big collusional meeting? 'Cause that's when the congressman raises his hand, of course, that you had nothing to do with it. Now he's making fun of people working in MTVA, but when it comes to allies, it's obviously harder to do that. In this, I would ask for your understanding to bring some objectivity into this. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-11-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask notary Lajos Szűcs if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to be very brief. Dear Szabolcs Szabó Indeed, it is not the first time that we have had polaremia on similar issues. I would also like to say to you that some sentences may have revealed to you, for example, why there is no advertising on the thematic channels, why there is no advertising, let us say, among the films of Duna TV. That's because they openly agree that children's shows don't need advertising. This is why what I am saying is going to be strange: not us, but commercial television has already initiated a number of years ago that the public media should not be in the role of advertiser, so you should always pay attention to the issue of revenue expenditure in this way. In addition, last year's cost increase includes, for example, that it had to be done because in Hungary there is no longer a broadcasting fee to be paid to the television owners, which the State has taken over. That's also the reason for the raise you just asked me about. But let me say about today's gem of objective and independent media, the one you are very fond of, and the following news: János Áder talked about credibility and action at the climate summit, but he travelled with a private military jet. Do you understand the word? It's a private military jet. I'd like you to keep an eye on this, too. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-11-48	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the proposed legislation on certain provisions relating to asset management and amending certain laws concerning asset management and national financial services until closure. The government referral is T/17442. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I now give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national wealth, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[11.00]]
u2021-11-11-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and the amendment of laws concerning certain asset management and national financial services includes both autonomous and amending provisions. Individual provisions include the provision of free ownership of state-owned property and property-related property-related property to ecclesiastical civil society organisations. In addition, rules are laid down for an asset-enhancing public investment management company to ensure effective investment tasks and special powers for public asset management. The Ecumenical Assistance Organisation, established by the Hungarian Ecumenical Assistance Organisation, is transferred to the Foundation for Education by a school building in Biatorbágy, which was created in the course of a public investment, with its complete equipment, in order to place the educational institution established and maintained by the Foundation. Another beneficiary of the asset relief is the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service Association. In order to ensure a higher level of public service for the benefit of social and charitable activities, patients, poor, fallen, disabled, disadvantaged and homeless people, and to ensure the long-term operation of a property in Budapest free of charge. The rules on investments under the Imre Steindl programme are the state project company Steindl Imre Programme Nonprofit Zrt., which was set up to renew the wider environment of the Parliament. specific provisions are laid down for the better management of investments. The bill also provides for the transfer of two properties to the Reformed Church District of Dunamellék, which the church is currently using. Annex XII is replaced by the following: district, Bíró utca 3. real estate for public education tasks, V. district, Alkotmány utca 25. property for the purpose of performing the duties of the church district service and the establishment of a conference centre. In view of the important role played by the Reformed Church in the provision of public tasks, both properties will continue to benefit the Hungarian society as a whole. Dear Parliament, As has been the case in recent years, we have collected in a legislative proposal regulatory proposals on the supervision of state assets, national financial services and postal matters to assist in the interpretation and enforcement of laws. The provisions amending the Hungarian Development Bank and the Postal Services Act relate to the implementation of the economic development objectives defined by the medium- and long-term economic strategy and the development of certain postal services. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In relation to Imre Steindl's programme, investments in a prominent national memorial site and in a community image protection environment will be subject to the amendment of several points of the National Property Act. During the reconstruction of Kossuth Lajos tér, we restored the artistic image of the square before 1944. In doing so, three monumental statues stood in the square before World War II and were removed after 1945. Andrássy Gyula Gróf's riding statue is the memorial of István Tisza in the southern part of the square, and the Kossuth Lajos statue group is located in the northern part of the central square. The flame of the revolution in the square and the monument of the II. in district Nagy Imre tér he got his final place, and at the same time he was owned free of charge by the Municipality of Budapest Metropolitan City. Following the reconstruction of Kossuth Lajos tér, but closely connected to it, a pedestrian-priority reconstruction of the Martyrs' Square was completed and the restoration of the monument of the National Martyrs. In Kossuth tér, we established a memorial place for Togetherness. As a result of the reconstruction, the list of the necessary assets belonging to the national assets, listed in the Annex to the Act, of national importance, has been clarified. The buildings, buildings, the Tisza Lajos Office House, the state-owned section of the Older Antall József quay and the state-owned sub-deposit of the Szabad György Irodaház are also rated as exclusive state assets in relation to the renovation of Kossuth tér, due to the technical connections necessary for the proper functioning of the Parliament. The provisions on national assets and amending the State Property Act lay down new provisions for budgetary trustees by granting them the right to sell small-value movable property free of charge. In the performance of their public tasks, the budgetary bodies may establish and purchase movable property, intangible assets, such as publications, brochures and films, which are closely linked to their basic tasks. This regulation is linked to the provision of the bill amending the Personal Income Tax Act, under which this type of benefit is added to the tax-free category. With a view to achieving sustainable public asset management, the bill sets out further rules on public assets intended for discharge. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to prepare and implement the Law on the renewal and development of Városliget, as well as the Act on the implementation of the State Building Investment Act and the Budapest Act and the Investment Act, the priority urban building real estate and infrastructure development financed from central budgetary resources, as well as the investments in the construction of buildings, will be prepared and implemented in a faster, more efficient and uniform procedural manner with a more efficient use of the available resources. One of the aims of the amendment to the Sports Act is to bring the rules on the exploitation of state-owned sports property into line with the provisions of the Law on State and National Property. Another element of this regulation is to lay down the rules on the methodology for the establishment of trust fees by designated sports organisations as trustees at a legal level. With the introduction of this provision, the obligations and burdens of the parties to the trust will become transparent, predictable and predictable. Dear Parliament, Finally, the bill will include the 2011 CI on certain asset management issues adopted during the spring session and certain laws to strengthen the coherence of the legal system. to amend law in order to supplement and clarify the rules on the management of assets contained therein. Dear House, In view of what has been said above, I would like to ask my fellow Members that T/17442. To discuss and support the regulatory intention set out in the proposal for a regulation. Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity, my fellow Members, for your attention. [[11.10]]
u2021-11-11-50	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, and with respect to my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-11-11-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologize for my voice to everyone. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Get Well!]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/17442 in front of you. The basic objective of the bill on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and the amendment of certain laws concerning the management of assets and national financial services is to facilitate the functioning of church and civil society organisations involved in the performance of public tasks through the transfer of state assets free of charge. The further aim of the regulation is to support the investment activity of the publicly owned company and to adopt, on the basis of the experience of law enforcement, the necessary provisions for uniform interpretation of the law and, in recent years, to transpose changes in national assets, asset managers and national financial services. Dear House, In order to ensure the social and charitable activities of the Hungarian Maltese Love Service Association, the higher quality of public tasks for the benefit of the sick, the poor, the fallen, the disabled, the disadvantaged and the homeless, and the long-term operation, the draft proposes the state-owned Budapest, VIII. district, interior 38563/0/A/3. local property for free ownership of the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service Association. The proposal includes a proposal for the management of the ownership of certain property elements during the ten-year history of the Steindl Imre programme and the ongoing reconstruction of the agricultural Ministry building and the Palace of Justice, as well as for the management of the materials resulting from the construction and demolition. The latter should, for example, be placed in the possession, free of charge, of public utility and public space infrastructure elements, such as hulls, traffic boards, decorative lighting facilities, spaces, etc. The purpose of the bill is also to promote Budapest capital XII. the higher quality of the public tasks of the mountain municipality of the district, in order to do so, according to the bill, Budapest, which is owned by the Hungarian state in a 1/1 ratio, 9328 number of localities, in nature the XII. district Budapest, Art Road 7 is located in the rented courtyard and kindergarten, cradle-class property and the associated effects of the Budapest capital XII. The district belongs to a mountain municipality. The bill also clarifies the 2021 CI on certain asset management issues and amending certain laws in order to strengthen the coherence of the legal system. The provisions in force in the light of the fact that the real estate managed as a unit in kind intended to be provided to the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund is situated in the real estate register with two serial numbers. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the amendment of the National Property Act is to preserve the image of Lajos Kossuth Square and the Vérttanúk Square, and to ensure the safe operation of the Parliament building, the exclusive state ownership of the buildings concerned, as well as the classification of national assets of major importance for the national economy of monuments and monuments. Within the framework of the Steindl Imre programme, several investments have been made in the priority national memorial site and in the protection of settlement image environment in recent years. During the reconstruction of Kossuth Lajos tér, the artistic image of the square before 1944 was restored. Following the reconstruction of Kossuth Lajos tér, but closely connected to it, a pedestrian-priority reconstruction of the Martyrs' Square and the restoration of the National Martyrs' Memorial were completed. In Kossuth Square, the memorial place of the Union was handed over. Dear House, In light of what has been said, it can be concluded that the bill contains forward-looking provisions, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-11-52	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Daniel Z. Kárpát, who presents the opinion of Jobbik's group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-53	Mr President, Dear House, It is very comforting to me that the Paksameta before us was not filled with the ideas of the Secretary of State, who I am highly respected, since these ideas could be heard earlier from the media, ministers and State Secretarys, but the bulk cheese we have received here is very, very confusing. It's confusing because there are, say, real estate transfers, for example, the transfer of state property, kindergarten to a local government, in which I don't think there's a bigger problem. So there are social, there are charitable goals, where I even risk arguing about them as a parliamentary genre. As many democracies, as many parliamentary orders, have as many rules as to how or how such a transfer of property is regulated, it may not be the luckiest way to put it in such a messed-up bill. But where man's wrinkles run up on his forehead, the most important thing is to mention the Ecumenical Aid Organization for Education Foundation. And we don't have a problem with the foundation here. Let's start by talking about the modeling school of Hungarian vocational education and training, while we are talking about ecumenical organisations, charities and aid organisations, and we have been through the same thing in another debate with the State Secretary, where we were talking about taking on various housing-related activities, as well as ecumenical organisations, aid organisations, charities, church organizations. I have no problem with this in itself, that these organisations are dealing with this kind of activity, and in the next agenda, it is correct to point out that there will be plenty of this. At the same time, I see that the Government of Hungary, while very combative towards foreign countries, is very combative to its own opposition, is less combative when it is required to perform the state tasks declared to it, and it prefers to issue, organise or release these state tasks to civil society organisations and churches through its outsourcing process. And let's face it, Mr Secretary of State, that the measurement of efficiency, control, accountability in the case of a civil society organisation is very limited compared to the fact that we oppositions are asking you to account for why you do not perform social tasks, why you do not carry out housing tasks, and we have a pacsamete where you can constantly outsource these tasks, while these, I say, can be a debateable point. Not all of them, because I'm going to tell you which one is completely insufferable. It could be argued on its own, but the fact that you do not carry out your own task, and for 11 years now, many areas in Hungary have ended up in a social disaster is unacceptable, and this bill does not alleviate this situation, but makes this situation more difficult. We also see that when it comes to the Reformed Church District of Dunamellék, the first feeling in me as a believer is obviously not the protest, but when I see that it gets real estate for public education, it's okay, but at the conference center, those wrinkles are just going up again. Here the name of Bishop Zoltán Balog, who was a fellow Member, comes mainly. I very much hope that if there is a conference in this conference centre for, say, demographic purposes, then that is where we are invited, oppositionists, or reality is heard, because in an interview Mr. Bishop mentioned it, I do not wish to quote it literally, just the point that he thinks we are already in order. [[11.20]] So it's like there's an increase in the number of Hungarians while we're in a tragic world-wide plane crash. The fastest dwindling of two dozen nations in the world is Hungarian at the moment. I really hope that there will be a professional name here that will eliminate such amazing mistakes. And here we are, the great reconstruction of Kossuth Square, which is a long-standing topic between us. Here we see an additional year and a half dedicated to the reconstruction of the Agrarian Ministry block and the former building of the Ethnographic Museum, here they are talking about underground garages, various plans. After 11 years of government, this is quite interesting. So once again, we are confronted by the fact that these topics are not discussed in a separate proposal by competent experts, in front of a separate commission, but by such a salad law, where church affairs mixes with Kossuth Square, sports mixes with charitable organisations, we could actually discuss these two agendas together, because we have very similar genres. But, basically, we also need to talk about how they would write in the sports law that state sports facilities can be handed over free of charge to others, although it is only for sport purposes, but they would take it out so that, say, a local government could get free treatment of this. So basically now there's a $50 billion maintenance cost per year, which, you know, has to be spent every year on misconstructed, overpriced stadiums, and now they're trying to outsource that burden. I, as an athlete and a football fan since I was a kid, am a huge supporter of all intelligent sports projects. But if you recall, Mr. Secretary of State, we were told in good time that if these stadiums were to be built, obviously you promised that they would not be overpriced, then these institutions were built at two, two and a half times the price, so they said that they would not really be stadiums, but such multifunctional centers, where events, concerts and others would change each other, and that they would actually be profitable. Therefore, it is not expected that these institutions will be loss-making in the long term. Now we're looking at a $50 billion maintenance crowd. We see what the new stadium has caused in several places, in Szombathely we see the fate of the Szombathely Progress. I hope that my team, Kispest Honvéd, will not come to this fate, but we also need to see that the maintenance of these facilities in itself is a very, very serious, long-term task, and it is not certain that by playing them out as good acquaintances and stooges, we will come closer to these goals. Nor do I see that there is no municipality that, if it wanted to maintain it, would not be able to maintain it. So I consider this part of the proposal before us to be an absolute wrong direction, and, overall, once again, we have a strong genre debate, we are debating this. Because here very, very important topics are mixed, and because of the confusion of the general justification, it is clear from the messy bulk cheese that these are, indeed, unmanageable topics together. Therefore, the stadium maintenance issue could be discussed separately, very productively, as well as the tasks of social and charitable organisations. I would like to emphasise once again that I strongly reject the fact that the Government of Hungary is playing strict state tasks, organizing me, and thus rejecting the responsibility, because it may remain a financier or provide funding for a while, but as far as accountability is concerned, there will certainly not be a civil society organisation at the level of which you will try to account for at least every four years in an election. The thing is, a strong government doesn't outsource tasks, it does. A strong government solves housing, social issues, not the civil sphere or churches. What we see is that you want to escape these tasks. I understand that it is difficult, but perhaps on these issues there could be a consensus over the parties, say, on the wages of the social sphere, which is a decade-long absence for you. Let's say, in terms of a rental program, which they don't want to know, because they are chanting, like I don't say, how kindergartened it is that Hungarian people want to move into independent real estate, of course everyone wants to move in, fellow Members, but some people don't have the money. And if you can't afford it, you can start your life well in an affordable apartment, until, let's say, you can collect your own property. At some point, these could be sensible debates, and I am very sorry that we have not reached the point of making this a reality within the walls of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-11-54	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Lőrinc Nacsa, who presents the opinion of the KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-55	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I, too, would appreciate greater agreement on certain issues. Congressman, I think we're thinking this together. This is what I think, by the way, of the social-building activities of the churches, and until László Varju will speak here in Parliament soon, and he will not present DK's position on ecclesiastical issues and on charitable issues. But he hasn't spoken yet, so let's just stick to what the two of us can agree on, or our fractions can agree on, because I think he correctly said that the public service of the churches, the provision of social tasks, the value-creating, value-bearing work they do in society, should be important for all of us. And if the state can help, support, especially when it comes to public service, then it is right to do so. Mr Secretary of State has also said that, in addition to a legislative harmonisation amendment, there are also important benefits for projects of a country-building nature of public interest in the current bill. I wouldn't talk about harmonisation of laws, technical details, but I would talk about a couple of assets, because whether it's for charity or for church-bound properties or projects, I think it's important to talk about them. For the Maltese Charity Service, the state-owned Budapest VIII. transfer of district property for charitable purposes; a social and charitable activity, patients, addicts, poor, fallen, people with disabilities, for the benefit of disadvantaged people, will result in a higher level of provision of public service, otherwise the service of charity. It's important that you have this property in your possession. My fellow Member also spoke about the Biatorbágy Innovation Technique and High School, which will open its doors to students in September next year. I think that there will be a high-quality and model-quality institution with enormous added value for Hungarian vocational training and close cooperation with economic operators. Here I would just like to clarify as many misunderstandings as my fellow Member said, because it seemed as if this project had been launched and recovered, and then the Ecumenical Relief Organization Foundation would end up having it. The Ecumenical Assistance Organisation has been involved in this project since its founding and has been involved in the preparation of the project even before it was founded. I think that this implementation here will be such an important project not only for the people living in Biatorbágy and the neighbourhood, but also for the whole of Hungary, which is a very important and to be recognised goal and instrument, which is important for the Hungarian state and Parliament to support. The public interest objective of the bill is also the transfer of two properties in Budapest to the Reformed Church District of Dunamellék. I am here to tell Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian that Zoltán Balog did not say what he said. That's not what he said, literally. It is worth looking at, as Bishop's words can provide important guidance in family policy, for example, in the next period. I think that the conference centre also serves to talk about things in a world where identity and Christianity are being questioned in Western Europe, but I am not a reformist myself, but to talk about issues in any circle that are about value, family, religion, faith, security, work, Christianity, I think it is a goal to support. We hope that we will be invited to as many of these conferences as possible, to participate in interesting discussions, debates that will move the country forward, and which will be based on the realisation of a value-oriented society, not on worthlessness, the value vacuum and the total denial of values. I think that all of us, on behalf of pro-government, can say that we acknowledge, appreciate and appreciate this, and we are also grateful to the churches for their community-organizing, charitable, faith-life and educational work, so we see it as justified, and we consider the transfer of these properties to church and church-related charitable civil society organisations to be the same as in the interest of society. As the Secretary of State says, the bill also contains an amendment to the continuation of the Steindl Imre programme. This year's ten-year-old Imre Steindl programme was adopted by the Parliament in the summer of 2011, as well as by the Nemzet Főtere, the reconstruction and reconstruction of Kossuth tér, as well as the renewal of the wider environment of the Parliament. [[11.30]] After the transfer of the Nemzet Főtér and the reconstruction of the so-called Wellisch Palace, the rehabilitation of the southern tér wall began, then the most important and impressive environment of Budapest was renewed and renewed. During the reconstruction of Kossuth Lajos tér, three monumental statues stood in the square before the Second World War and were removed in disgrace after 1945: Count Gyula Andrássy's riding statue in the southern part of the square, István Tisza's monument was restored to the northern part of the square, and the Kossuth Lajos statue group bordered the northern part of the central square. We've all seen these beautiful works. The Szabad György Irodaház, which fits the image of Kossuth tér, was also built, as well as the memorial place of the National Assembly at the end of the Constitution Street was completed last year, at the centenary of our national tragedy. Under the Imre Steindl programme, the reconstruction of the Agricultural Ministry and the Palace of Justice is currently under way. The bill we are discussing now also contains a proposal for the ownership of each property and for the management of the materials arising from the demolition of the building. The bill also includes an amendment to the Law on the Renewal and Development of the City Park. I think that if Kossuth Square can be said again, that it is in all our fundamental interests and responsibilities that the Nation's Operative Area, which was reclaimed with great difficulty, more than half a century later in its original dignity, should never again be the centre of power of totalitarian regimes, the location of the occupying troops or the centre of series fires. Our task and responsibility, as well as our duty, are to preserve for future generations the peaceful, sunny and dignified historical image of Kossuth Square, the Nation's Center. The amendment of the Budapest Act is also included in the current bill. The investment programme elements, which are part of the Southern city gate programme, also include the implementation of flood protection works. Here, as a result of the review of the areas covered by the.D.C. development programme, it is also necessary to amend the Budapest Act. The bill also includes an amendment that allows academics, researchers, academics, lawyers to receive publications of a scientific nature and containing research results as non-cash benefits, tax-free. A new title is added to Annex 1 to the Personal Income Tax Act. Without the need for completeness, the above-mentioned amendments are, I think, all of them necessary, have value, they also contain important charitable, educational, community, heritage and public interest provisions, and the KDNP fraction will therefore support the amendments to the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-11-56	Thank you. I now give the floor to Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! In part, the bill before us continues the practice that Fidesz will mostly hand over state wealth to the state for free. It is particularly interesting why this is necessary, since at the current autumn parliamentary session, the government officially did not intend to submit any proposals for the transfer of assets according to the legislative plan. What happened, fellow Members? Did you realize that before the fall of Fidesz, there are still a few things that can be taken out of each of us' common property? In the proposal before us, there is much to be said. They provide real estate to the Ecumenical Relief Organization for Education Foundation, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service and the Reformed Church District of Dunamellek. In addition, Law No I of 2004 on Sport is amended according to the fact that, in future, a state-owned sports establishment could be transferred free of charge to churches and public benefit organisations. Although the government considers that there will still be no general possibility for public property to be transferred free of charge to private property, since the privateisation of higher education, these claims are highly questionable, and at that time I was still subtle. It is proposed that real estate for sport purposes in national property should be excluded from the list of properties which are not intended for sport purposes in terms of their function. Why this is necessary and why these facilities are being planned, you leave the explanation in the dark. Although, there are some non-sports real estate that some of my fidest buddies have already had a good chance of looking out for themselves. These proposals point in the same direction: Fidesz drastically reduces Hungary's wealth. These include understandable decisions, but the majority of decisions are inexplicable, state-controlled gibberish. But even explainable decisions are often indefensible, for for example, it is understandable to hand over a kindergarten to a district government in Budapest. However, it is very strange why this possibility arises only in the case of a district of pro-government leadership. Why can't every settlement and every district be treated in the same way? Do families in different places deserve to be treated differently? I would remind you of your oath to work for all Hungarians. You can't select who voted for you and who didn't. You also spend money on those who are not pro-government voters. It is their duty to represent their interests in the same way! I would also like to remind my fellow Members that you have been authorised to manage and preserve national wealth through government, not to give up what is the property of the Hungarian people for free. Because it's a disgrace, the way higher education is completely outsourced to private actors. The state is handing over its assets in such a way that its future destiny, the operation of the university, is practically out of control. This bill also contains such a element, when public property for sport purposes could in the future not only be transferred to municipalities. You have the right to ask who else you are. For the time being, the press has claimed that it is only for public benefit organizations, but, as we know, from the pro-government perspective, almost every public benefit that can receive the state's wealth free of charge is controlled only by people with pro-government ties. After all this, I think it is understandable that we do not wish to assist in the fidesz robbery of Hungary, so the MSZP does not support this bill. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-11-11-58	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-59	Mr. President, thank you very much. I would like to start with what, in fact, I believe, is presenting the situation at its end, namely that the bill on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and the amendment of laws concerning the management of certain assets and national financial services is a fundamental law. This, I think, clearly shows that what my former fellow Member was trying to demonstrate in comparing values and denials of values is nothing more than, let us say, to evacuate before government failures what this intention or this law has actually been drafted for. There's no need to talk about honor, security, integrity, that sort of thing. It's not like that. From this point forward, the goals you declare will be completely secondary, as everything happens in a directional way, in a way that is entirely linked to loyal circles and not in terms of social interests. I fully agree with what the Member said that this is part of your escape strategy, which is being done here, in these last weeks, in the last months. And that is why, when, as declared objectives of the law, they move towards civil society organisations through the free transfer of state assets, I think that the Pharisee attitude that you have shown in relation to civil society organisations over the past years is as one-sided as, I might say, on the former or other subject discussed in the previous agenda, they are only leaning towards themselves and thinking accordingly and ignoring the interests of the greater part of society. And in this respect, it doesn't matter how much you try to spill on it, how you want to help a relief organization with free wealth or charity, because in the meantime, all you really think about is yourself. [[11.40]] A series of examples can be mentioned in this respect, because even if, in this respect, action is taken to cover up, let us say, the smooth acquisition activity that is being tried even by introducing this concept at sports sites, I think that this is quite clear. Therefore, this draft law cannot be supported, and we do not, in fact, even in a small way. We do not agree with this unlimited disposal option. We do not agree with the introduction of non-compete, and in this way we do not support the free allocation of wealth to church organizations, because it is not only a public goal in this case, but it is precisely for Fidesz, especially in the context of the upcoming elections, to target church support. In addition, the justification for the proposal also includes the presentation of the religious activity of the Reformed Church District of Dunamellék. At the same time, according to the current Fundamental Law, the state and the church operate separately in Hungary; the state should be in world-view neutrality. Of course, the state can cooperate with the churches in connection with public benefit activities, with additional financial means to support such activities of the churches, thus essentially promoting the implementation of constitutional fundamental rights. However, this does not extend to the religious activities of the churches. Consequently, the law is against the law and, as I have said, it contains even a one-sided approach, since the objective of the legislator in this respect is clear, so we do not agree with it. We do not agree with the proposal on the disposal of sports sites, as it is planned that this can be given not only to the local authorities but also freely to anyone and their gifting practices so far are well known. In the same way, we do not agree with the absence of competition, as it also brings additional unnecessary benefits to the organisations targeted in the exploitation of state assets. Is it necessary to protest against this faction in this way? It is clear that, yes, the Democratic Coalition faction cannot and will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-11-60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now address Congressman Adam Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor. [[For signal:]] Excuse me. For the first time in two minutes, it's our colleague Nacsa Lőrinc. Excuse me.
u2021-11-11-61	[[At the start of the comment, the sound system does not work.]] ... my fellow Member, but thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Maybe later, if that's what it is. I would ask my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Karpat, that this is what he talked about today in the series of anti-religious outbursts that we have heard here, he has now taken over from Zita Gurmai; the MSZP is increasingly integrated into DK, so now he is not in the narrative... I would like to ask Congressman how he feels as an ally in such a case that, after such an anti-religious outburst, in which not only does Congressman Varju misquote the Fundamental Law, he quotes the Fundamental Law completely wrong, but he tells me not only that he constantly insults the Church, not only does he strike anti-religious voices, not only does he misquote the Fundamental Law, but he strikes a tone here in front of Parliament, which, I think, is a very perilous time. In the summer, the Democratic Coalition presented the bill to abolish the confessional secret by the Parliament. Even the Communists have not done this, honourable Member, only the Nazis have managed to do this alone throughout history. Moreover, the Fundamental Law makes it quite clear that the state and religious communities operate separately, religious communities are independent and the state and religious communities can cooperate to achieve Community goals. We are talking about this cooperation because we respect this cooperation. [[László Varju intervenes.]] We respect not only the foundations of cooperation, but also the work that churches do in Hungary, and you say that this is some kind of fidesz asset management [[László Varju: Truthful...]] That a charity would run a school, that it would run a kindergarten, that it would run a conference centre, that hospitals, schools, different aid organisations would be run by churches, and that would take on a community task. In this connection, you're telling me that this is just some kind of asset outsourcing. Honourable Congressman, The sentences you're saying here in front of the National Assembly are a very, very bad time. I'm asking you to stop this anti-religious mood, which is typical of you. Thank you.
u2021-11-11-62	I will also speak for two minutes to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-11-11-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am addressing my fake right-wing fellow Member on account of his address to respond to what has been said. The fact is, of course, on the opposition side, we see the ecclesiastical and the attitude towards it in a slightly different way, but don't put something in the mouth of my opposition fellow Member that he hasn't told us. The big thing is that everyone fully agrees with the need for separation, but only to a certain degree, at the same time theft, their net free robbery, not for kindergartens, and perhaps not even for the conference center, but what we see is that if we say we get to the stadiums, then there is the possibility of net free robbery. My fellow Member! The fact that you refer to yourself as a Christian Democrat, a believer, is the right of your heart, nothing wrong with that, and I respect the private person who is a believer in myself. The thing is, you should act like one. So, in today's agenda, it was rightly said that you are running an institutionalized Bolshevik lie factory. My fellow Member! You are also personally responsible for my family being harassed by these Bolsheviks called journalists. You are personally responsible for this because you are also the keeper of this Bolshevik lie factory. Our community, Jobbik, has won over 200 lawsuits for your institutionalized lies. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Pussy...]] And when these lies are put out in the world and taken over by your dogs and foot media, they certainly take responsibility for harassing our family members that they're going to end up in their homes, quoting very dark ages. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] We agree, Your Honour. I ask you, if you call yourself a Christian Democrat, to act in all respects, for example, to distance yourself from the end of the family members of opposition Members, and to put an end to this. And once again, I think churches are very important to me. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I can see clearly that you are trying to put words in the mouths of opponents [[The president's ringing again.]] They didn't say anything.
u2021-11-11-64	Our next speaker is now indeed Mr Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Parliament's notary, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-11-11-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, From the package of legislative amendments before us, I would like to comment on the amendment of Act I of 2004 in a normal framework, this sport law, the two important elements of which, according to this proposal, would be changed. One of them is the incorporation of a property management fee into the law for state-owned properties that have already been transferred to asset management. The annex to the Sports Act sets out which state-owned properties are placed in asset management, including MTK, Vasas and Ferencváros, will use state-owned facilities and will in the future, as we know that the handball hall of Folkligeti, built from more than HUF 100 billion, will soon be managed by Ferencváros. And the law decides to estimate these assets, and it will charge an annual asset management fee of half a percent. I think there's nothing wrong with that, maybe it's an important innovation. On the other hand, it is not possible to go without a word, which means the free ownership of state-owned sports facilities, if you will, of the gifting and circumvention of additional state assets. If we look clearly at this issue from the perspective of the people, we can see that, in recent times, there has been a transition of state assets in the country. We can see the 100 billion-dollar asset element of higher education, the outsourcing of foundations; we can see the gifting or sale of high value properties, resorts, even in my Somogy constituency; and now people can see that sports facilities are being disposed of, they will be handed over free of charge. [[11.50]] There is, however, a policy part of this section that I would like to limit myself to in the rest of my speech. We know very well that a large part of sports facilities cannot be operated economically. These are mostly swimming pools, some football stadiums, or even ice rinks. This should already be taken into account, and the next government should be particularly concerned about how we will be able to provide resources for their maintenance. I always say that the inexorable merit of the Fidesz government is that sports infrastructure has been renewed with a lot of money, and I think that now our children can play sports almost everywhere, especially in visual sports, at Western European standards and under Western European conditions. That's why you deserve the credit. But the fact that these properties are out of state control... by the way, there's a state company called National Sports Centres that operates them. This, by the way, is a criticism of the operation of the state company, if you are now loosening up this type of regulation and wish to move from the management of the National Sports Centres to another place. But let's see what the previous rules of the sports law looked like. The former sport law also gave municipalities the opportunity to transfer these sports facilities free of charge. Now this changes to the fact that, instead of local governments, virtually anyone can have these assets. And it is also out of the text of the law that the new owner, who has to use real estate primarily for sports purposes for 15 years, if the Parliament accepts this regulation, I would like to draw attention to the fact that he can burden this property. The sports law currently in force doesn't give us a chance to do that, but for some reason, it's out of the regulation. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State, whether now or in the closing words, to answer why this is necessary, to loosen it up, to open it up so that it does not fall into the property of the municipalities alone, or why the burden is not an issue, or why it is not a problem that these properties may be burdened. It is very important to ask what real estate and on what basis it will be transferred; it will be a part of this proposal, let us say, an in-depth plan of operation, so that anyone who takes over this property can maintain this property has a plan, a business programme that he will guarantee or undertake to operate, or possibly continue to ask the Hungarian State for money, serious millions, perhaps 100 million forints. Because if that is the case, I respectfully ask why it is necessary to transfer these properties, to give them free ownership, if it will cost the state again, the taxpayers, money to maintain them. So it's very important to know that; as well as what will happen to these properties in 15 years' time. It is only for 15 years that the law must be used primarily for sport purposes, of course they can also carry out other activities alongside it. What happens in 15 years? Obviously, when swimming pools, different football stadiums are built, we do not build them for 15 years, but for longer term. What will be the guarantee that our children will be able to use these sports facilities? I trust him very much, and now I'm going to give you an example, the example of the Hangman stadium, that it won't be the weed that's gonna wake up these properties. Secretary of State, what guarantee can you offer that these facilities can be operated and maintained in the long term and are otherwise privately owned? It is very feared that out of the state property registered as a sports establishment, the meaty bites will be outsourced, the properties on the frequented section, which may otherwise be used for secondary purposes for other things due to the valuable property area. I don't know if that's part of the point, whether or not this one's been examined. Many people are concerned that what is sustainable, can be operated profitablely or profit-orientedly would otherwise be good if it remained state-owned, and that which the State cannot otherwise operate profit-orientedly or at least zero should be transferred. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Attila Móring József.) I think this is a very important topic, a very important area. I do not think it is devilish, but we would like to see guarantees that if and if they are removed from the property of the Hungarian state, they will remain for sport, not only for 15 years, and otherwise the new owner will not come to the Secretary of State, Minister or Prime Minister with a cry that he will give us some money, otherwise he may close the gate. Because if that can happen, then this proposal must not otherwise be contributed. So we'd like to be clear about that, and I respectfully ask that you give us a reassuring answer to the questions that have been raised. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2021-11-11-66	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I give word to Daniel Z. Carpathian, the representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-11-67	Mr President, Dear House, In order to protect the nervous system of the senior president and others, I am not going to complete the time frame at my disposal, but I promised a rebuttal to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. I understand you're protecting Bishop Zoltán Balog, but the thing is, with our biggest national drafts, you don't have to say things that don't stand the test of reality. I have the Mandiner January 7, 2021 issue in front of me, so I'd like you to look for it: I need spiritual renewal! interview with Zoltán Balog. Here the bishop made it clear that he is absolutely proud that we are living better, and that we are becoming more and more people, that the standard of living is increasing, that poverty is falling, and that many of us are relative to it. The fact is that there are no more of us, my fellow Member, your demography has created a catastrophic situation, and now in the first nine months there is a county where the rate of eclipse has increased by 65 percent. This was due to brutal emigration in recent years, for demographic reasons. But it's obvious that you're trying to make it look like a success area, but in fact, you can barely show some of the results. There is one indicator that you may not be able to argue with, which is the number of households raising children. Let's see how much this was in 2010: 5.1 million, where children were raised overall. This is a question of a generous interpretation of the concept of household, so everything is relevant where children have been dealt with at any level. That's down to 4.6 million today. So, unfortunately, over a decade, both the number of households raising children, both the number of children and the number and proportion of women of age capable of having children have also decreased. So it's a disaster. All I'm asking is that at least in this very important area, you always and only say something that will stand the test of reality, because we should solve it together. If we can't solve it, I'm not saying that it doesn't matter what kind of parliament Hungary will have in 30 years, but that life here will be very difficult, I'm sure. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-11-68	Thank you. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to focus on our agenda. I give word to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-11-11-69	Thank you. I don't have a hard time protecting Bishop, by the way. You said then, Congressman, that the Bishop said that we were good by number. I protested because he didn't say that. That's what you said in your previous speech. I'm glad you're quoting me right now. This has made Hungary the most likely to have children in the European Union in the last ten years. We have absolute partial results, we have absolutely a lot to do in the next period. I think we've talked about this on a number of occasions, argued about it, and we will. We have a shared responsibility and a shared responsibility on this issue. And to link myself to the bill in this respect: for example, I think that the number of marriages has doubled, and the desire to have children has also increased, which is also due to value-making civil society organisations and churches, family pastorals, marriage counseling, marriage training courses, family care, kindergartens, schools with education and family life that these churches consider important. [[12.00]] So I think that we all need to work together on population policy and demographic issues. I think we can agree on that. I don't think partial results are worth denying, because it gives you the strength to continue. We never said that everything was okay and that we could sit back on this issue, and that we have a lot of things to do. We can see that the past 10 years have brought much results in this respect. As Bishop said in the interview, we live better than we did ten years ago, living standards have increased and poverty has also decreased. We can be proud of this, be proud of you, and continue working together for Hungary's rise. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-11-70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to respond. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the lively and professional debate generated by the bill. If I may, I would prefer to respond, not in the order in which my fellow Members speak, but rather according to the issues raised, from the general, from the general. In the beginning, I would like to note that we have always told each other for many years, not always on this side, but also on other parliamentary lines, that we do not regard salad laws as the gems of Hungarian legislation, and that they are not likely to be included in the golden annales of Hungarian legislation. However, my fellow Members know perfectly well that they themselves practiced that, unfortunately, the programme of government work and legislative work sometimes makes such solutions necessary, there is a pace of government work, there is a professional advance, there are stages of it, and when they are put into the stage of legislation, they should be brought here at the same time. That is why we are trying, and I hope that we will do so, to classify professionally related issues. I must say that the reactions received are not always related to the professional context. I know that the Hungarian Parliament is basically organised on a party basis, and we are obviously also hearing emotional and emotional speeches, but please allow me to respond primarily to professional questions. The question that has been raised in the last few days between the walls of this House is that I am forced to repeat it because it has been said once again who is spreading the state's wealth and who is increasing it. Since 2010, the state wealth, data of 19 has increased by more than 6000 billion, to more than HUF 17 700 billion. This represents an increase of more than 50 per cent compared to 2010. I know there's an answer to that, yes, but now some of these foundations have gone out. Compared to this, a small part of it went out, and foundations are not foreign and other owners. Here only the 40 most important ones are listed, which left the country between 1994-97 and between 2002 and 2010 when the entire Hungarian energy industry went out, most of the service providers, the food industry, the pharmaceutical industry and the banks. So I would like to ask my fellow left-wing Members not to bring this up as an argument, because this simply does not stop factually. It won't stop. It was the Fidesz-KDNP government who after 2010, I must say, for very expensive money bought back those that you bought back in two government cycles... [[He's taking a moment's break. Nacsa Lárinc: They brought me home! Laszlo Varju: That's you!]] I do not know that this duel of words makes sense, because if we look at the documents, my fellow Member sees something else; as they say, the facts are difficult and they say otherwise. I am speaking to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, because he mentioned that we are publishing things under government responsibility. He mentioned the apartment, the vocational training. Allow me to give you the opposite examples of both, and to express my conviction, and to understand Mr President here, because this does not belong closely to the bill I have tabled, but since the Member has mentioned it, I would like to say that in recent decades, for example, the Greek Catholic Church in North Hungary has had one of the most significant positive effects on the population and youth in that region. That's what I'm saying about vocational training. I have to add the argument that we have been saying more and more today, and we are also calling for practical support for more than ten years now, namely that the Hungarian labour market is one of the most important replacements of the Roma minority, and their training and catching-up programme cannot always be integrated into the public, otherwise customary education system. So for my part, I would have been very happy if, for example, thirty years ago, the great administrative institution in Ozdon had not been in the thirtieth of dogs, but had given it to the Greek Catholic Church, who was there for vocational training and vocational education, which, by the way, he did in a tiny way among his options, he could do. Because of what has been said about sport, because several of my fellow Members have mentioned sport, let me answer this in more detail. The first is, I say to Congressman Steinmetz, that sports associations are still paying asset management fees. The proposal we are now putting forward sets out only the way and extent of this finding, which, by the way, will be as much as it is now being paid, so there will be no more. However, if there is no asset management fee, this constitutes state aid, and it is not possible. In this way, it provides a technical solution to the existing system, which otherwise complies with EU rules. The other thing I would like to say very strongly is that, in the Commission's debates and now it has come to light that the regulation now being tabled on the sport law is aimed at strengthening the control of sports trades, giving free ownership of property belonging to public property, which is otherwise for sport purposes. The regulation does not extend the range of beneficiaries of free ownership, and it is still not possible to transfer public assets free of charge to private owners or sports associations. The provision of the bill is precisely intended to strengthen the utilisation of the property for Community purposes, since on this basis, in the future, in the case of the free ownership of state-owned property registered as a sports establishment, it will always be necessary to give prior consent to the Minister of Sports, which is required under the current legislation only if the property is owned by a local government. [[12.10]] The second question is why this was necessary: because the State Property Act lists those beneficiaries, local governments, public benefit organisations, churches to whom state wealth can be transferred free of charge. This category of beneficiaries is not amended or supplemented on the basis of the submitted bill, and even the bill reduces the possibility of free ownership in the way I have already mentioned. In order to enhance the enforcement of sport-related aspects, the State Property Act is supplemented by the fact that state-owned property registered in the real estate register as a sports establishment may be transferred to public property free of charge only for sport purposes, since there is currently no such provision in the rules. So we are not relaxing, we are tightening this provision. I believe that in the last few days, in weeks, we have tried to respond several times and now to the transfer to the Maltese and Ecumenical organisations. By the way, I am convinced that in this category of social life, these organisations move with greater security and efficiency than the state. The state may have more power, but for example, Maltese people have more knowledge, more local and personal connections. I am convinced that these organisations are more efficient and able to function better, of course under proper public control, whether in the exploitation of this kind of housing or even in education and training. Finally, and not least: please do not consider this cynicism, but due to the tone of the comments made, I must respectfully say that when I presented this bill, I did not assume that the MSZP and DK would support this at the time of the presentation. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr President, thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-11-72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Ladies and gentlemen, A general discussion of the bill on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and the amendment of the laws relating to the taking-over of certain public housing tasks by charitable organisations will follow. The government referral is T/17437. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would therefore like to speak once again to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national wealth. Here you go.
u2021-11-11-73	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and the modification of the laws relating to the transfer of certain state-owned tasks by charitable organisations is to help the population of settlements of 5 thousand inhabitants or less supported by the Hungarian village, with free real estate application as a new tool, and to contribute to the implementation of the long-term development programme of small settlements, and to help those involved in the long-term programme of the Hungarian village. The beneficiaries shall be owned free of charge by assets belonging to the public property in the municipalities concerned, but not directly usable for the purpose of public asset management, which have a potential to improve the quality of life, have a noticeable value of use or constitute capital injections at local level. The purpose of the bill is to amend the laws relating to the taking-over of certain home-building state tasks by charitable organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, During the development of the Hungarian village program, which was launched in 2018, a wide-ranging dialogue was carried out with people living in small settlements, village leaders, representatives of church and civil society organisations, professional organisations and local government associations. After that, specific sub-programmes were launched, including the tender system to improve the quality of local public services, the village CSOK, the village road base, with 3000 kilometres between 2019 and 2021, and an additional 1500 kilometres by-way in 2021. In order to save and open local convenience stores, support for small businesses and support schemes for micro-enterprises with a budget of more than HUF 27 billion has been launched. By now, the number of small settlements has slowed down significantly compared to large cities, and the population of 2,500 settlements with a previously declining population has started to grow in about 1000. The possibility of extending the support system of the, with a new element, is the government's idea, through which it is not necessary for the public tasks of the state, for the placement of central budget bodies and for the provision of tasks, by MNV Zrt. properties managed directly will be owned free of charge by settlements with 5 000 inhabitants and below, thereby contributing to the development of settlements. In order to facilitate the effective implementation of the long-term programme of the Hungarian village programme for urban development and population conservation, the government, in its decision of 31 December 2021, shall indicate the state-owned properties which, together with the associated assets, will be owned free of charge by the municipalities listed in the Government's decision at book value on 1 January 2022. The aggregate registration value of the properties should not exceed HUF 2.5 billion. The assets to be transferred are, in view of them, not listed in the Government's decision, but are made by a detailed transfer of property. The asset allocation shall be made according to the conditions in kind on 1 January 2022. In the application of assets, municipalities are exempted from the provisions of the National Property Act on the free allocation of assets, such as reporting to the transferor or the prohibition on disposal. The municipalities will be entitled to sell the assets transferred to them, but the proceeds from the sale can only be used as defined in this Act. The assets will be transferred without any lawsuit, burden or claim, excluding the rental contracts in force, I would specifically draw attention to this, the conditions of use and the rights and obligations which may exist on the property concerned, which may be registered in the real estate register. Dear House, In 2019 the government launched the long-term programme of the,, Catch-up settlements, according to which it is necessary to help 300 of the country's most disadvantaged settlements with a targeted programme. The program is based on the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service's Application Programme, the organization's professional management, involving churches, charities and civil society organisations. The settlements will be gradually involved: in the first year 31, in the second year 67 and in the second year 118 settlements from 1 July 2021, the programme will be implemented with the participation of some 20 church and civil society organisations. The programme aims to provide short-term services to those in need in areas affected by extreme poverty, the vast majority of whom, in addition to inadequate housing, suffer from serious work and serious livelihood problems and, in many cases, health problems. [[12.20]] The implementation of municipal programmes is based on a complex intervention designed according to local conditions, professional presence and individual diagnosis. The overall aim of the present programme is to improve the social and infrastructure supply of the settlements that are falling apart, and to promote positive and forward-looking changes in the lives of people and communities living there. The program focuses on children with the widest possible tool system. The existence of adequate infrastructure is a fundamental issue. The basic element of the program, the Presence is the primary stage of community development, where social work is carried out, and the need for accommodation and property is increased with the expansion of services, the creation of children's homes and school services. At the same time, housing, which fundamentally affects the healthy lifestyle of the family, is the main area of real estate exploitation for children's school and parents' careers in the labour market. In order to ensure the effective implementation of the long-term programme of the catching-up settlements, the Government shall, by 31 December 2021, state-owned property which, together with its related assets, will be owned by the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service Association free of charge at book value on 1 January 2022. The aggregate registration value of the properties to be designated shall not exceed HUF 49,5 million. During the benefit of the property, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service is partly exempted from the application of the provisions of the National Property Act concerning the free distribution of property, so it will be entitled to sell the assets transferred to it, but may use the proceeds from the sale, as I have already mentioned, only under the conditions laid down in the bill. Dear Parliament, LXXXVI of 2021 on the take-over of certain public housing tasks by the charitable organisation announced in the summer of 2021. The Act was created as a summary of the results and experiences of the completed home creation action programme with the aim of providing further assistance to persons and families who, at their own discretion, remained tenants in the National Instrument Management Programme. The MRI Community Housing Fund Public Use Nonprofit Kft. its activities provide a guarantee that sustainable and predictable housing conditions will continue to be ensured for families remaining in real estate participating in the NET programme. The two large charitable organizations, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service and the Reformed Charity Service have been providing personal assistance to families struggling with indebtedness for more than ten years. The company created by the organisations is not profit-oriented, but seeks to ensure that tenants' housing is not compromised in the future. With the transfer of vacant properties from the real estate portfolio of the NET programme to charities in the property management of the Private Limited Company, organisations can contribute even more effectively to ensuring the housing of socially disadvantaged social groups. Managing an empty house provides an opportunity to find personalised solutions, to ensure mobility for families, and not least for individual customer management. Proposals for amendment of the law in relation to the tasks arising from social housing management and rental relationships, as well as the performance of State tasks related to the activities of assisting service providers and the purchase of installments provide the housing fund with a status similar to that of the manager of the previous programme in relation to the maintenance and operation of the real estate. On the one hand, the amendments are necessary for the proper performance of the public tasks undertaken by the housing fund and, on the other hand, it is justified to grant certain advantages in the light of the fact that the housing fund takes over the real estate on the basis of rental rights and, on the basis of the legal provisions, the housing fund may not lay down conditions less favourable for tenants for two years. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask that T/17437. I would like to discuss the legislative proposal and to support the regulatory intention set out in the bill, and I would like to ask all the factions to support it. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-11-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-11-11-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to take a look back over the last few decades. In 1990 there was a change of regime and a democratic transformation, which made us first witness and participate in an economic collapse, and as a result, especially as a result, an intra-border population shift, a migration, an internal migration started. One of the main reasons for this was the loss of jobs, the loss of services, the loss of economic units, and the impact on the inhabitants of the countryside was much greater than on the larger cities or even the capital. In addition, this process was an accelerated process, it started sometime in the early 90s, and it lasted, I think that maybe until the first years of the 2000s, so let's say, until 2005, 2010 when other types of processes became visible, which is the process of people moving out of larger cities into garden zones. These two processes have partly extinguished each other, but in many places they have strengthened each other rather, as a result, in many places the smaller settlements have simply been depopulated. The number of schools, the number of children in kindergarten, has shown a decrease that has affected the quality of education and care, as the operator, in general the local government, received normative subsidies on the basis of the head quota, and it is clear that the fewer children went to one institution, the less support the municipality received, and this has increased this process further, and according to many experts it has certainly evolved into an unhealthy process. In different ways, governments have tried to deal with these issues. There have been times when this pace has been increased, tensions have been increased, for example, under the heading social mobility jobs, mainly housing and other facilities, facilities have been built using sea resources, mostly from domestic sources, but with the start of EU funds they continued at an even higher pace. [[12.30]] There has been a situation in recent years that, let's say, could be dated to 2010, which definitely required government rethinking. The product of this rethink is, in essence, this program of the Hungarian village, whose main purpose is to stop this process and even reverse it as far as possible, since this process is not sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, The T/17437 on our table. The aim of the bill on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and the modification of the laws relating to the transfer of certain state-owned tasks by charitable organisations is to help the population conservation and possibly increase of settlements of 5 thousand people or less, supported by the Hungarian village. Its important aim is also to contribute to the implementation of long-term development programmes for small settlements and to assist those participating in the long-term programme of the surrounding settlements by giving free ownership of the assets in the affected settlements belonging to the public property but not directly usable for the purpose of public asset management, which have a potential to improve the quality of life, have a noticeable value of use or constitute capital injection in the local context. In addition, the purpose of the bill is to amend the laws relating to the taking-up of certain home-building state tasks by charitable organisations. Dear Parliament, Following the launch of the Hungarian village program in 2018, the implementation of the program started in 2019. The possibility of extending the support system of the Hungarian village with a new element is the government's idea, which does not require public tasks, the placement of central government bodies, the provision of tasks, the real estates in direct management of the Hungarian National Asset Management Private Limited Company would result in the cost-free ownership of settlements with a population of 5 thousand and below, thereby contributing to the development of settlements. With regard to the programme of the Hungarian village, I must say that we are very pleased that the amount of budget support for the Hungarian village programme will slowly reach a thousand billion forints, and thanks to the program, the villages will be filled with life again. Since the start of the program, population has increased in 1100 settlements, which is a very positive thing, including 858 settlements where it had been reduced for decades. There is a strong intention to continue the programme until it can be said of all 237 affected settlements in Hungary. The programme's funding envelope is also extended year after year. The amount of more than HUF 600 billion will be increased by more than HUF 291 billion next year. The period before 2010 was a conscious destruction of the village, when land development funds ceased, 38 railway sidelines were closed, 381 educational institutions ceased, and the villages were driven into a debt trap. After the change of government in 2010, the era of reconstruction began, and the government took over the debt of the small municipalities, which was around HUF 1300 billion, which was off the shoulders of the municipalities. The program "Modern Cities" has been launched. Villages are also the beneficiaries of the improvements made in this area. The Hungarian village program started in 2019, this program is written by the villages, so far we have consulted 10,000 participants at around 300 locations. Within the programme, three thousand kilometres of road network was renewed from the village road base between 2019 and 2021, and in 2022 an additional 1,500 kilometres of roads can be renewed. Since the launch of the Hungarian village, more than 20,000 successful applications have been awarded to Hungarian small settlement municipalities, village parishes, district centers and civil society organisations. On average, a tender received approximately HUF 10-11 million. Ladies and gentlemen, LXXXVI of 2021 on the take-over of certain public home creation tasks by charitable organisations announced in the summer of 2021. The Act was created as a summary of the results and experiences of the completed home creation action programme and is intended to provide further assistance to persons and families who, at their own discretion, remained tenants in the National Instrument Management Programme. The activities of the MRI Community Housing Fund Non-profit Limited Liability Company are a guarantee that families remaining in real estate participating in the NET programme will continue to be provided with sustainable and predictable housing conditions. The two large charitable organizations, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service and the Hungarian Reformed Charity Service have been providing personal assistance to families struggling with indebtedness for more than ten years. They've been involved in this program for ten years. The company created by the organisations is not profit-oriented, it seeks to ensure that tenants' housing is not compromised in the future. By transferring properties from the real estate portfolio of the NET programme to charities in the property management of the Private Limited Company, the organisations can contribute even more effectively to ensuring the housing of socially disadvantaged social groups. Managing empty housing would provide an opportunity to find personalised solutions, to ensure mobility for families, to manage individual customers. Ladies and gentlemen, In light of what has been said, it can be concluded that the bill serves a forward-looking and important purpose, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-11-76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, who will present the opinion of the Jobbik Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-77	Mr President, Dear House, I hope a lot of people are following our work, at least through online or digital channels. I ask them not to believe what has just been said. I wish the production report that there are more than a thousand Hungarian settlements is true. This is quite amazing, fellow Members. I wish that were true. I'm really, really rooting for this. The thing is, you just have to go up to the side of the KSH, and you saved it. Grab their little phones, punch them in, here's the Q.H.S. speed report. Natural weight loss has increased in all regions, mostly in the Pest region by 202 percent, in the North Great Plain by 113 percent, to the smallest extent otherwise in the South Great Plain by 41 percent and in Central Transdanubia by 45 percent. So shocking, sobering data about the state of the Hungarian countryside... I do not dispute, by the way, that there are small settlements where targeted investments can attract a population, young families, where appropriate, and that is a very good thing, we welcome it if that is the case. It is only the case that, according to the GKI survey, a fifth of the Hungarian villages show that 30% of the permanent population is over 60, my fellow Members. It's a picture of old age. In general, the proportion of people under the age of 18 is examined, and it can be concluded from the proportion of those under the age of 18 that when the settlement will die out, and according to all relevant analyses, the fifth of the Hungarian settlements are in danger of extinction and depopulation. [[12.40]] I think the goal is basically good, by the way. So I welcome the government's intention to target the depopulation of the Hungarian countryside and to develop a programme for this. Don't make them feel that I have a gut problem with the., the Hungarian village program, because I don't have a gut feeling at all. [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] Don't wave your head, fellow Member. While there is still freedom of speech, I will tell you what I want, you can comment on this, but let no one argue the good intentions that every opposition representative has, because we also want the Hungarian countryside to flourish. In my view, there is no Member in this Parliament who would deliberately, knowingly base on the destruction of the villages, because it might be better for him. I don't believe that. However, the situation alone does not improve because it is possible to apply again for the re-launch of rural businesses. Consider the example of the Ozd mentioned by the Secretary of State. There, the historical production capacity has virtually disappeared or cannot reach the previous capacity. Since then, decades have passed, and we see governments coming and going, but targeted job creation investments in this area have hardly been carried out. Or if they did, it picked up the production sheet and said he was trying to find more cheaper labor elsewhere. If there's a region left and there's no job-creating investment at all, or if it's there, but it's picking up its tent and going somewhere else, then we can do anything, we can aim for the villages, however, if the area doesn't have so much working capital and an investment that doesn't rob that region, but cooperates with it, if it doesn't, it can help us to flourish, so if it doesn't, then we have very, very difficult things to do. We see that the distribution of normal investments in Hungary is very unhealthy and uneven, and we also see that sometimes it is decided as a favor to which part of the country, to which county, to which district such investment goes. This should be distributed on the basis of a national and absolute professional strategy. It was right to mention the example of State Secretary: yes, there are all regions in North-East Hungary where no working capital, decent capital arrives, and therefore we can do anything there under the title of the Hungarian village. For a symptomatic treatment, I'm sure it's enough, so there's going to be a place where a small business starts, there's going to be a convenience store, and it's going to be easier for the locals, so let's not discuss it. I am just trying to mention the big picture, that overall, the elimination of the Hungarian countryside and the tragic loss of population cannot calm down. I was very sympathetic to the fact that he became a Minister of Family Affairs without a wallet in Hungary, and I think this is an important thing, which is why it hurts me when Minister Novak says the things she says. He believes that there are huge results on the population front, but in the year of his last big statements, we became less of the population of Nagykanizsa, and in December, when he spoke, we were reduced to the population of Siklós. What we see is that there's nothing to talk about and there's nothing to talk about. If we look at what is the result of emigration, in addition to population loss, with humiliatingly low wages, then we see housing problems. It is precisely housing that comes back in this proposal. One of the veterinary horses of the housing cataclysm is the National Tool Manager. I know it's Mr. Secretary of State's heart, and I think you've been a good farmer with this area. In the spirit of fairness, I would like to say that when I asked a professional question, I got a professional answer, and in this narrowed-down discourse space, we were able to talk about it normally, and facts and figures clashed with each other. I think it's a good way to go, and it would be nice to keep it. At Tool Manager, I have a philosophical problem. The total amount of foreign exchange credit granted. What we see here is that with a defective product, the commercial banks involved could have looted the population in a legal way. The majority took up their foreign exchange credit at HUF 160-165, and after a very long settlement process, this foreign currency loan mass was forinted at a market rate of 256 HUF, almost at that time. So the typical client lost a hundred forints of conversion rate, and therefore serious millions. Some of the customers damaged by these serious millions were in a situation where they lost their property, and instead of going to the bank, they basically ended up with the Hungarian State, and these countrymen were able to rent back their own former homes. This is certainly helpful, let us not discuss it, but the whole philosophy is still based on the fact that these people have been damaged, and this damage has not been corrected by anyone. On the opposition side, more and more people think that there is a need for a new accounting law on foreign exchange credit issues. Other parties say we call it a compensation bill, I've been mantrassing the settlement bill for at least five years. My goal is to recalculate these so-called loans at the rate of the day of admission, and see that the client has already paid as much as was demanded of him. But here's the thing about what happens to the people who went to the National Asset Management. It will turn out that they have been looted, but the fact is that they can count on reparations at most financially. But let's look at the real estate prices, if he gets back what he's been damaged by, even at the base rate of the central bank, he can't buy property of the same quality as today's prices that would move him towards an integral restitution and at least approach his original condition. That is why we are saying that the whole approach to these people, which is philosophically wrong, is that they would have given them the opportunity to buy their own apartments at a reduced price. I am debating this, and I will do everything I can to ensure that these people find justice in the final joint programme. And if they have already taken away the planned years, the possibility of family formation, unification or expansion, or the possibility of fulfillment, let us give back what we can. But how do we get to the National Asset Manager? We could see that you could buy back your own property in a preferential form. In addition to discussing the basis of philosophy, this is better than a bank taking it, or if, as a market kofa, 30-35 percent of the banks would have made this claim among themselves. But now, the state is giving church services to the apartments of the exonerated foreign exchange credentials. Again, I dispute whether you can do this on the grounds of integrity. We are talking about a very strict state task at the front of both housing and social tasks. The outsourcing of this is certainly not a certificate of a strong state. A strong government would solve these tasks. Once again, your government wants to outsource these tasks. They're gonna make me feel better, and I can see that the state funding is going to stay behind, and I'm gonna take it easy. The thing is, we can't get a civilian organization to account for it the way you do. If they do not perform this task, the fact is that, through the responsibility transport, it will be very difficult to convince that civil society organisation that it is really the State's duty to carry out this task, because it is a civil society organisation, which cannot be asked for. I am also very pleased that the empty stock of real estate has been mentioned on behalf of the former pro-government speaker. There is indeed a historical failure of this government. We know about half a million vacant properties in Hungary. What's private is obviously not something anyone wants to touch, because we don't follow fidesz customs, we respect private property. However, there are two other legs of this thing, state and municipal property. Many of these properties are in such a bad state that I can clearly see that their renovations and their use as rent apartments would be more expensive than raising new-built apartments. But we're gonna do about one-tenth of the number that could be used as a rental in renovated form. This is 50,000 real estate. If we start a new rental program, this is the goal of the new national unit government, then we can start with the construction of 5-10 thousand apartments per year with maximum capacity. So it would be very important to map empty properties. This is also not negligible in the region affected by the Hungarian village, as the former capacity is very often empty in the depopulated villages, there are empty properties and former homes. But that doesn't mean there's a job there. There is only one chance for Hungary: to create a real calling program for those who have left forced abroad, with competitive wages and adequate housing conditions, so that everyone who wants to do so can thrive in their homeland, obviously not with coercion and not with nuggets, but with strong motivations. However, we cannot leave Hungary without a substantial job creation investment, and certainly not a Hungarian county. You can't say it, and no one can say it to entire parts of the country to solve their fate as you wish, because they don't get it from a company's investment. However, these are manageable processes; not only with non-refundable tax incentives and grants, as the Government of Hungary does. This was the veterinary horse of the Audi, which was given 1 billion even when its leader announced in the press that they did not need it, they did not ask for it. [[12.50]] These amounts, which would otherwise amount to a hundred billion-dollar amount of aid, could be channeled in such a way that the job-creating investment would arrive in regions X or Y, that these regions could be resurrected, and if there were jobs and healthy capital, it would be possible to talk about keeping the population. So, once again, as regards the Hungarian village, I do not dispute the basics, but I cannot believe in the effectiveness of the implementation, especially on the basis of the data of the HCSO and GKI. And that is quite outrageous, and I hope that someone will respond to how the 300 poorest villages have lost 143 billion forints in recent years. Here the government draws much less money from the EU's recovery fund than planned, and here for the poorest settlements there would have been a source, a framework. In April, 220 million were supposed to be Forints will be spent on the program of the closing settlements, and the last number at my place will be HUF 77.5 billion, and obviously, which will be added to this, but we see that one of the reasons for the decline is that the government has decided not to ask for the reduced loan, but that it is only for the non-refundable grant. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Yeah. The fact is that the share of the Hungarian villages concerned is thus reduced by magnitude. I have not read news that the Government of Hungary would make up for this from national sources, and if so, I welcome it, but I certainly see that these few hundred settlements in great trouble are living in their last hours. So it may not be possible for a next government to have time to prevent their final elimination. Once again, the proportion of people under the age of 18 should be paid as much attention to these settlements as to those above 60, as the proportion of people over 60 may be favorable in a civilian suburban zone, but if there are no young people living there, then these settlements will be depopulated. By the way, it is certainly not in the long term, because I see that, let's say, the intention of buying in Western Europe is appearing more and more widely in the Hungarian village, and I also see that in the heart of Europe, in the former pantry of Europe, the fact that counties and districts remain completely unpopular is not likely to be imagined in the long term, but the idea that we would be close to providing our own reproduction, guaranteeing prosperity in the homeland for everyone. I do not see this in this package, but once again, we are so far ahead of the previous agenda that, although I am debating the philosophy of certain measures, the basic approach that Hungarian villages must be saved from depopulation, cannot be debated in this House. Maybe we're one point ahead. Let's do everything we can to keep Hungary alive. Thank you for your patience, Mr President, and your attention.
u2021-11-11-78	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát can say that no one believes anything of what my Fidesz fellow Member has to say, but he won't allow me to waver my head during his speech. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I asked for it, but feel free to wave it.]] He asked you that I waved my head. We have a number of disputes with each other, and we agree, of course, on the target. You often say in the area of family policy or in the area of rural policy that you agree with the aim, and then, unfortunately, in your votes, it never manifests itself, and you never support the measures that we take for example in the interests of rural people, villagers, Hungarian villages. You have claimed that there is no one in the room in Hungarian politics who looks down on rural people or in some way works at the expense of rural people. Péter Márki-Zay, your candidate for Prime Minister, said that if in a rural town Fidesz gathered his best men, they would probably not be able to decipher a crossword puzzle. This disdain for the country from your Prime Minister's candidate, as well as the Momentum representative, has said that he hates the countryside. Now, that's where we're going, ladies and gentlemen. I think the bill is an infinitely important bill, which we are discussing here, and we have the opportunity to talk about the programme of the Hungarian village as a rural, rural population conservation programme. I think it is extremely important that my fellow Member Hadházy spoke about the cultural, sociological and historical background here at the beginning of his speech, but we have been aiming at improving the quality of life of people living in Hungarian villages and small towns since 2010. The government's aim is to live in villages and small settlements, not to have lower quality of life and disadvantages against the metropolitan life form. Our goal is also to stop the decline in the population of Hungarian small settlements, which includes providing rural people with all the services and opportunities that are natural for metropolitan people. In our view, the communities of Hungarian villages should be supported in order to preserve their valuable rural way of life, while at the same time the XXI. The achievements of the century should not be locked away from them. This is why in 2019 the Hungarian government launched the program "Modern Cities" in parallel with the programme "Hungarian Village" in which HUF 150 billion was available for small settlements in the 2020 budget, while this amount already exceeds HUF 220 billion in 2021. The government has provided more than 600 billion forints for the development of Hungarian small settlements since the launch of the Hungarian village. Next year, in 2022, a higher amount than ever before, nearly HUF 300 billion will be available for the continuation of the programme. That was the budget amount you said no to back in the summer. This programme includes infrastructure development of small settlements, support for local communities, civil society organisations, cultural associations and churches. The results of the program show that village houses, community institutions, schools, kindergartens, nursery schools, playgrounds, medical clinics, roads, sidewalks, cycling roads have been renovated, and we can list the results of the Hungarian village until the evening. So far, more than 20,000 successful proposals have received more than HUF 220 billion in funding under the programme. In the framework of the village road base, nearly 3,000 km of side roads were renewed or renewed in the period from 2019 to the end of 2021, and further 1500 km of lower roads could be developed in 2022. In order to preserve and create rural jobs, more than 2600 Hungarian micro- and small enterprises have been supported by the Hungarian village programme. The results of the first three years of the programme show that more than 1100 settlements with long-term weight loss have started to grow. This is where my fellow Member Z. Kárpat argued with this, and he said regional natural population loss data, in which we can call it micro-communities the village CSOK and the Hungarian village.A positive trend has started, and I am absolutely happy about it, and I think it is absolutely supportive to go on these roads. If you look at the data of these villages individually, you will see that there have been positive movements. In fact, the mayors already say that, for example, the number of settlements has exceeded 5,000 people, thus falling out of the program of the Hungarian village, and this is what is causing them the problem, which is a joyful problem, I repeat, because they started from a much lower number, and thanks to God, through the movers, through childbearing and through development, this growth started. The strength of the Hungarian countryside and villages is also shown by the fact that one of the poorest regions of the South Plain, which had many small settlements and extensive farmland, was able to demonstrate dynamic development, and since 2010 it has been able to make nine places in the development ranking of European regions. In addition, Hungary does not have a region, my fellow Members, that has reduced or stagnated its level of development since 2010, but each region in Hungary has taken a significant step towards catching up with the European average and has been able to overtake other European regions. However, this has not always been the case. Before 2010, instead of developing Hungarian villages and small settlements, the left-wing governance was characterised by continuous cuts and withdrawals; I hope that my fellow Member Gurmai and László Sebian-Petrovszki will also address the rural-destructive policy before 2010 as they are obviously ashamed of what happened at the time. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] I don't think so. We know very well that during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, schools and clinics were closed in small settlements, and doctors and educators were driven out of villages. In 2007, the left closed a 500-kilometer railway line, while in 2009 a 800-kilometer railway line, 38 railway lines were closed. As a result of the left-wing policy, the educational activity was discontinued in 381 places, resulting in more than a thousand teachers being sent to the street. During the devastating governance of the left, small settlements accumulated a debt of a hundred billion in the period 2002-2010. After the change of government in 2010, more than 1,700 small settlements had to be freed from suffocating debt. So we have something to protect from the left, the Hungarian villages have something to lose if the left comes back to power. [[13.00]] I believe that the current bill, in agreement with Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member, represents a further step towards strengthening Hungarian small settlements, since the aim of the bill is to help preserve and continuously increase the population of settlements supported by the Hungarian village, with free real estate application as a new tool, and to contribute to the implementation of the long-term development programme for small settlements. The adoption of the bill is another step towards strengthening the quality of life of small settlements, so I think that those who vote 'no' to this bill vote 'no' to the Hungarian countryside vote 'no' to the Hungarian villages. The KDNP fraction will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-11-80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Zita Gurmai, who will present the position of the group of the MSZP. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The aim of the bill before us is, theoretically, to help preserve and increase the population of the settlements of 5 thousand people or less supported by the Hungarian village programme and to contribute to the implementation of the long-term development programme of small settlements. The theoretical goal is also to help those involved in the long-term programme of the public property by giving them free ownership of the assets belonging to the state. At the same time, the only thing we can't figure out is who's gonna get and what real estate they're gonna get. It is proposed that the government take a decision by 31 December on the properties previously agreed with the municipalities concerned, which are designated for this purpose. However, it is not only strange, but it is absolutely shocking that although there is nothing to know about real estate, the value of these properties is precisely defined: it cannot exceed HUF 2 534 431 474. At the beginning of my speech, I said that the objectives set out in the bill are purely theoretical, because there is even more weirdness in the proposal, such as Article 1. Paragraph (10) of the Act states that if a property of a certain number of local estates is designated in Fabián sevestety, that prohibition of disposal shall not apply to that property, contrary to the legal requirement. Well, are you guys doing shit again, fellow members of the government? ! Who and what kind of real estate did he look for in Fabiánsesten? Then the proposal also shows that these benefits are more of a burden for municipalities, as they put all the problems of real estate on their heads. That is clearly stated in the bill. I quote:. The asset relief is carried out according to the conditions in nature on 1 January 2022, all possible damage relief, pollution management, waste management is the responsibility and cost of the municipalities, which cannot be transferred to the Hungarian State or to the Hungarian National Asset Management Private Company. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The section on the long-term programme of the catching-up settlements is equally vague and highly mushy. Here, too, it will only be designated by a decision to be taken by 31 December which properties and assets will be received by the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service Association, which will also be exempt from reporting obligations or from the prohibition on disposal, i.e. they may sell these assets. And how surprising, there is also a mysterious provision here that, if a property is designated on the Heyószalonta, it is also not subject to the prohibition of disposal. What's with all the secrecy, fellow Members of the Fidesz? Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is far from being prepared for corruption, because although it does not reveal what kind of wealth they want to sell, it is precisely determined for a penny how much the maximum amount can be. I ask you: why did you define HUF 2 534 431 474? Why don't we find out who and what he's getting while determining exactly how much the value of the transferred property can't pass? What's the point of this bill, why does it need law? Of course, the answer we suspect is that knowing the exact amount and your secrecy tells us that you know perfectly well what you're up to, but you don't want to reveal your intentions yet. There should be no misunderstanding, the Hungarian Socialist Party is in favour of providing assistance to those in need as widely as possible, and there are positive examples in this, of course. However, that is not what this bill is about. The proposal simply does not reveal what the government is trying to do with this law. This law could be the same way as preparing for future corruption, as another burden on local governments. The MSZP therefore does not support the proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-11-82	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovsk, who will present the opinion of the DK Group. You have the floor.
u2021-11-11-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear rapporteur, The proposal, which is before us, can in fact be divided into two parts, while dealing with the transfer of both properties, but let me say that I will also split my response in two. The first part is really about, as my fellow Members have said here, that within the framework of the Hungarian village programme, we do not know who some settlements of less than 5 thousand people are, to whom the Hungarian State would transfer real estate; from the Hungarian state's wealth it would go to the municipality's property. I am missing the whole programme, but I also looked on the wallet website, and I also could not find such a background document as to explain why the purpose for which the Hungarian village programme was created was, and I, along with several opposition colleagues, can tell you that, of course, the aim is to help the Hungarian village to get through XXI. The challenges of the 100th century; so how much this goal is helped by the fact that certain properties, which have been there, have used this in many cases, or in any way have been related to it, are transferred from Hungarian state property to municipal property. Why does this help the village, why does it help small settlements? If the purpose of the Hungarian village programme is to keep the inhabitants, do not move, to create new children there, that is to say, in Hungarian, to live the village to create jobs, and the rest, and so on, to have the goals of the Hungarian village programme, which I think we all support independently of a party, I certainly do miss from this proposal, but I tell you, I have not seen any other background material like this, why these concrete proposals help this here. They may help you, I could be very flexible in that, but I don't see why they're helping you. By simply reading the submission, I can only see that the ownership sheet has so far indicated that the Hungarian state and now the local government will be present. That doesn't mean there'll be any more kids there, no more jobs, and I could tell you all about it. I do not think, unlike many, that there is a general solution to this type of problem. So in Hungarian, I do not think that in itself we can say that municipal property is good, that state property is bad or vice versa. I think it depends on the situation, and it depends on the case, and it may even depend on the municipality. So, on a theoretical basis, I would not rule out this form of help in itself, I just say that, in this particular situation, I do not see the justification for this as being justified. [[13.10]] If we are talking about the fact that these properties are still there, of course, and they are being used in some way now, it is not yet clear from the presentation that they are already working, so in fact the part of the village's life is already active in these real estates, or it will be created afterwards, but the point is to assume that they are. If so, I see, in particular, one objective of why this is transferred to the municipality's property or of the advantage it brings to the municipality, perhaps the municipality can provide more control, more control of what is happening there. The activity that's going on in this property is now taking place in his own property, so logic tells me that he can better control what's going on in that property, what programs are going on and so on. Perhaps the municipality can use it for everything. By the way, the law allows you to sell these real estates, and it is true that if you make money from it, it must be used in the same direction with the aim of the Hungarian village, so you can not use it for anything. And that's where party politics comes in, unfortunately. Half a year before the elections, to submit and get the House to accept a proposal that we do not know how many and which municipalities will receive specific and what real estate, but hundreds of municipalities will receive a total value of billions of HUF worth of real estate that they can alienate, make money or control what is happening in that property... While we know that, by the way, there are many independent mayors and representatives in the settlements of less than 5 000 people, if you can watch party sympathy, it is possible to say that there are many independent mayors and representatives, but the proportion of them that are needed backwards in the last 30 years, if you can see party sympathy, it can be stated that they are the power base of Fidesz at the level of voters as well as at the level of local representatives and local mayors. Now, if I link these two with this, then I can't help but think that what's happening here in this case is that the government led by Fidesz is handing over state assets to people he expects to get a positive result in the election next April-May. It is a positive result by pushing these assets into the semi-feudal dependency system, which, in fact, operates outside the cities in many areas of Hungary, where we know that public workers depend on the mayor, and the mayor instructs them in many cases, in addition to public works, how to vote. And we also know that the same is true for the mandates of local entrepreneurs, and of course this is all linked to the power machine of Fidesz, and in this system, when we know that this is how it works in the countryside, in this system such a proposal is now coming into this system, six months before the elections, I will say it again, and installed on a type of settlement that is one of the backbones of Fidesz. I can't help but think that this is necessary right now because Fidesz is preparing for next year's elections and is trying to guarantee that this will be successful in these settlements. That's why he's handing out a lot of real estate out of state property. I think it is problematic, too, and here the speakers before me have also forgotten that there is a very specific, penny-detail amount in the proposal, but we cannot see that there is a list of the sum of which has been entered in the proposal, but we cannot see the list, we do not know which settlements it is, we cannot look at which real estates are, they are of great value, they are of small value, what is going on in it. An eye in the village of Fábiánsebestyén can be strongly guessed because they give a specific pass to this, that if something happens there, then what should be done; this one can be guessed at, nothing else. But it does mean that you will draw up this list, not after this, on the basis of this legal mandate, but on this list, yes, it exists, but you just think that you are not going to push it in here. Obviously, because then there would be even more scandal from this proposal, because then we could go through these settlements and properties in pieces, and we could tell exactly where the mayor is, what colorful, what kind of cases happened there. It was only this week's news of how and as winners of local settlements, villages, state tenders in the constituency of István Happy, entrepreneurs who were clearly connected to him. So we're familiar with these techniques, so I'm going to use the suspicion lawsuit to make sure that this proposal is part of it. The other part of this proposal is about a much smaller share of assets. Let's get this straight, and I'll tell you right now. It would provide assets to two charitable organizations, two charities linked to churches. In this context, I can say the same thing, which may have been before us six months ago, also a government proposal concerning charitable organisations, that we do not see clearly what kind of charity you consider to be a partner of the government and highlight, and, for example, in this case, you provide him with real estate and other charitable organisations, who are either moving in the same area, doing the same thing, why not. At that time, the national government replied by saying that this had some rules laid down by regulation, for example, how many offices that charity should have in the country, because it shows that it is strong enough then and can therefore participate in programmes. We all know these systems. We know very well that in the regulation you will enter a number and the government will create the conditions that you would like. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] No, that is not true, my honourable fellow Member, I would like to say that, because that is what we discussed here on purpose, and that is what the government determines. I have to say that here we highlight these two charitable organisations, while moving in the same area further charitable organisations for the same purpose, they do not receive, we cannot interpret this matter in any other way than that charities linked to churches with closer ties to the government are naturally granted real estate benefits and we bring it here, the government side brings this proposal to their benefit. In churches or civil society organisations, in charities that are linked to a church that is not a partner or is not considered a partner by the government, they do not get one. So I say that, on the basis of this proposal, it is well established that it is based on political selection that who gets real estate and who does not, unfortunately, also in this second part of this proposal, so where, by the way, this policy could be least or should be shown, not even nuanced. Overall, I must say that both the two parts and the first and the second parts of this proposal are obviously unacceptable to the Democratic Coalition for these reasons, and therefore, because of these criticisms, we will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-11-84	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Ladies and gentlemen, On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, representative of KDNP.
u2021-11-11-85	Thank you. I find it amazing how László Sebian-Petrovszki campaigned here for 12 minutes with the disdain of the country and who they are and why they get wealth and how. I find it quite shocking, and I reject it in the name of the villagers. Congressman, if it had been in the bill that empty houses or apartments owned by the municipality were taken by the state and taken away, it would have said that municipal property was being stolen by the state and that the state imagined that the municipal property would be reduced. Well, you said that the government's assets are growing with billions of dollars. For a year and a half, you've been chanting that the municipalities don't have any assets, that the government will even take what's left. You are mantrassed here, and now the municipalities, as you say, are receiving a substantial property asset, so that the local government's own assets will increase. In charitable organisations, you are very, very wrong, and if anyone in this speech had a political motivation for charity, it was you. Since 2000, the Charity Council has remained unchanged for 21 years. Look, Congressman, it's a law on who can be a member of the Charity Council. Only someone who is a member of the Charity Council will arrive before the National Assembly. For example, the Red Cross, which is not a church organisation, honourable Member, and it includes:, for at least eight years, has been engaged in charitable activities, with a national network, three regional centres, with an appropriate logistical background for the conduct of relief actions, with at least 40 employees in employment at national level, and operates at least three regional warehouses. Since 2000 this has been the case, honourable Member. [[13.20]] They could have changed it if they hadn't seen logic in that. It is only you who know that there is logic in this because a Charity Council, when there is an emergency in a country, is a red sludge disaster, a flood disaster, any disaster, then, in fact, a large organization is able to function together by the Charity Council. And I think it is right that if these organisations are supported by the state, otherwise, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the government decree. And you do support the charities. Thank you.
u2021-11-11-86	Thank you. I will also give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovsk, a representative of DK, for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-11-11-87	Thank you very much. Of course, I understand that the municipalities will receive this fortune, and I said the same thing. In fact, I even said that you did not listen, my honourable fellow Member, that even in principle I can imagine that there is a problem that this solution can be. Only in this particular proposal is it now realized that this has this type of justification, which is not clear. I'm sure the author will respond to that. But the point is, how and how and to whom we give these properties. What is happening here, then, let us speak openly, is that the honourable national government is silent about the settlements and properties that we are talking about and we are living with the suspect case, yes, my fellow Member, that these will be, indeed, Fidesz local governments close to Fidesz. I swear on anything that in a month or two we will be arguing here that we will already see the list, and that it will be listed in pieces, how many hundred of the 900 or any number of settlements will be close to you! Because that's how it's worked for you for 12 years! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Here's a choice.]] Okay, let's make a choice. So you're actually admitting that they're actually going to be fidesz! That is the case, my honourable fellow Member. Isn't this about the country or what he said? I'm a country guy, and I'm a country guy, so I came to the capital, and I didn't lose that identity, either, but it's conceptually impossible what you're saying. The point is this: Fidesz is trying to support its own power with this proposal and with these billions of forints, by shifting state wealth, the assets of every ten million Hungarian citizens, to local governments that are alive with suspicion, I must say, the Fidesz will be strengthened in the next spring election. This is the story, my honourable fellow Member. And yes, as opponents, we cannot say yes. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-11-88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to respond. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the first place, just because it has come up, my fellow Member, Z. Carpath, has really been dealing with foreign exchange creditors and their affairs from the beginning, so it is my job, too, that if he is his concerns, then I should say the facts we consider to be real. I also ask my fellow Member, and everyone to whom this is going, so that we do not forget that some a million families have been in trouble with foreign exchange creditors. However, this government closed the foreign exchange loan era with the forints, with the help of some 700,000 families; we introduced the price barrier, some 186 thousand families were exempted from payment of interest of some HUF 50 billion; we made it possible to pay the end of the payment, with which 170 thousand families were given the opportunity. This resulted in savings of some HUF 370 billion. In the framework of bank accountability, all contracts were reviewed, which reduced the repayments by 30 percent, and also meant a reduction in the burden of HUF 1000 billion; and last but not least, we created the private institution. And the reason why this whole thing came up, within the framework of the asset management program, we saved the home of about 38 thousand families if you like, the vast majority of which, some 37 thousand families said, and not only said so, but also bought it back. So, indeed, I was part of the asset management program from the beginning, no doubt. What proves it better, and I have said it before in the walls of this house, I remember when, as I recall, in the summer of 12 years, I was counting with my colleague, Secretary of State, to present 3,500 or 5,000 buy-backs to the government, which in the end turned out to be 38 thousand. So that was a lot of things going on along the way. That's one of them. The other one, you also brought it up, and I will tell you this because you are close to me: Congressman Nacsa has already responded to your figures by mentioning the average regional numbers of the HCSO, but this is not true of the settlement. As for the example of Ozd, let me say, and almost every speaker in this has said this, and in this, I think we agree that there is no saving solution for everything we are talking about. There is no saving state step, and there is no process to which we can say that I will close from 1 April to 15 August. These are long processes, the length of the slope and its path, and it is obvious that the climbing is long, and neither regions, settlements, families, nor individuals can be an almost general solution. There are people in the family who have a solution, some who do. Staying with the Ozdi example. In the past, there were steps in this, too, before 2010, before that we brought in large numbers of modern employers, not even one, more. I have to say that there is, in a strange way, not simply a shortage of workers and their skills or utility or work culture, I think the problems are that a company such as General Electric sold them first and then his successor left after 20 years. However, I am very confident that now the Ozdi people will find an example as a result of state measures. Although, and if I have already referred back to it, for example, the fact that we have bought ourselves back into the remnants of a previously privatized iron and metal complex over the past ten years shows that the Fidesz government has recognised it earlier, and then practiced that basic industries, basic industrialisation levels, must be restored in Hungary, because without it, there is no state of the art. Today, the two programmes in principle support the Hungarian village and the catch-up program, as they have been said, I mean that we agree. What my fellow Member from Sebian-Petrovsk has missed and perhaps referred to it as perhaps I will comment on what these objectives are. Indeed there is, but why this list is not here is because it was a legislative dilemma that a list of 1,600 to 1,800 lines could be put into a law, where each line has further sub-details. It's a thick volume. And it may not be very professional of me to say, but please believe me that in so many settlements and so many parts of the land, if I crucify myself, I can't separate on a party basis. And the fact that a government puts support behind its own priorities does not mean that it supports specific settlements. We support specific objectives, and we ask that you agree with them at any given moment. [[13.30]] I'm just trying to quote my memory here. In this there are construction land, solo land, so it is not new agricultural real estate, but solo land; there are unruly buildings. There are a number of things that came to the state, because the state, as a final heir, inherits things that it cannot deal with; there is nothing we can do about it, in case the municipality can do with it. But in many settlements, the village centers are in the framework of the Hungarian village programme: I am thinking about what has been found in connection with other laws, some central operation of local service providers, because a few hundred settlements alone cannot support these service providers. Or at least, to whom the service must be provided, it is extremely economical that, if, say, four types of buildings have to be heated, guarded, the top of them would be done by such things. Social facilities are very often requested in the villages. The aid schemes shall relate the tender to EU or domestic property, in general to all real estate property. None of the tendering systems like it, but they ask for ownership of the rights of use or the different contractual conditions if they want an ergo playground; or, for example, roads, the design of internal roads are several times public territory, and then two to three steps must be provided. So the internal content of this list is very colourful. I asked because I'd like to say it exactly, so that's why we're not as bad as you think we are. Fabiánsebestyén: this Cserna windmill, which is under historic protection, is owned by the municipality, so we do not want this because it is protected there. It's an old windmill, so it won't be a hotel, it won't be anything. It's an old windmill that's still under protection, and the municipality said they'd fix it, just get immunity, so that's what it's all about. Finally, what I said on the road, on this basis, I would like to ask for the support of these two large programmes, please agree with me, I think we agree with what I said, that the development of settlements, village development, or whether it is a city, so whether it is a modern city programme, whether it is a village development programme or our catching up program, that it is a very colourful, very complex, very complex thing. Through training opportunities from the owner of the property, through infrastructure development, the state institutional system includes not only the possibility of a physical approach, but also the possibility of an official approach and a return from it, so I would ask that, in addition to and behind these proposals, the intention to do so and one of the important material foundations of this very complex task, and at least not a party policy effort in the letters of the law. And in his goals, I think we agree. I therefore ask you to support the bill after the debate. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-11-11-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I would like to address János Bencsik, an independent Member, who will address his speech after the agenda with the title "The Civil Hungary." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In a civil democracy, if you work your whole life, there's a good chance you'll have predictable retirement years. Well, Hungary is not such a place. Hungary was captured by pension dementia 30 years ago. It is much easier, cheaper, and more politically rewarding in the short term to keep these people at bay with one-off donations and then blackmail them. This is what the 13th month pension is about, and this is what the pension premium is about to be paid these days, which, of course, seems to be pleased by many, since it is a help in the short term, but it strengthens this dependence in the long term. It was only the Civic Response Movement that acted against it. We have said that it is not possible to build a country on credit, especially in a disproportionate and unfair way, as you have done, turning generations against each other. And our Civic Reply to this social demagoguery is a programme between the generations, the three main elements of which I will now present to you. On the one hand, instead of the Swiss indexation of the socialists and the increase in Fidesz' pension linked to inflation, we are initiating the introduction of the Hungarian indexation. What does that mean? On the one hand, instead of general inflation, we would use the retired consumer basket. This means that the price increase of important products for older people, such as basic foods and medicines, would be calculated separately, how much these products have increased, and on this basis we would increase the pension. On the other hand, the value of pensions would follow the growth of real wages, i.e. the general increase in purchasing value in the previous year would also be included in the increase in pensions. We also initiate the voluntary and direct transfer of 2 percentage points of the social security contributions to the parents or grandparents of all working Hungarians. This would be an extra 105 thousand forints per year for an average employee, obviously double for two children, and three times for three children, and so on. Our proposal is not only a welfare measure, it would not only provide extra money to the elderly, it would strengthen social responsibility on both sides. On the one hand, as a parent, everyone would be interested in raising honest, working, tax-paying people who can later contribute to their well - being. And on the part of the children, it gives us the opportunity to thank our parents and grandparents for the care that we have been raised. Thirdly, if the paternal state shrinks and the bourgeois form of freedom and responsibility is strengthened, it will benefit the whole country, the whole nation. Our third commitment concerns the fact that men today cannot retire after 40 years of work, although their average age is not higher than that of women, but much lower than that of women. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, today in Hungary, the mass of men under the age of 65 is less than the minimum age of pension, but only the contributions are paid. In addition, the majority of the hardest physical workers are also men. It is not difficult to see, for example, that a 63 - year - old paramedic or firefighter can't run up to the burning house on the fourth floor in full equipment, or, for example, a 62-63 - year - old patient can't move 100 - 120 - kilos of people in the hospital so that I don't mention any more heavy physical work. My fellow Member, Tamás Sneider, has said this several times in the walls of this House in recent years. To sum up, the Civic Reply initiates the Hungarian extension, the introduction of 40 plus, and the possibility of redirecting contributions to parents and grandparents. If we want Hungary to be freed from the buying of votes linked to the four-year electoral cycles, from social demagoguey, and we want the artificial opposition between generations to end, not by us, but by the political set of the political generation of the last 30 years, then we need to start implementing these programmes; not in 10 years, not in 20 years, when the pension system is collapsing, but now. The Civic Reply has undertaken to represent these cases and we are counting on Hungary's responsible and emotional young and old citizens. They can count on us, and the thing is, in today's political context, they can only count on us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[13.40]]
u2021-11-11-92	Thank you. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-the-meet speech:. How long? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-93	Mr President, Dear House, Today we finally spoke about those who live in Hungary not in the capital, not in the inner districts, not under the luckiest conditions with the best, most developed infrastructure, but, let's say, in a Hungarian village from which the population migrates, where everyday life has to be spent in the mood of permanent eclipse, where quality work is more than a missing item. Scary statistics are coming up. A fifth of the villages disappear, as they measured a ratio of over 30 percent among 60-year-olds. Another very important indicator is the proportion of people under the age of 18, which, unfortunately, is constantly dwindling in most settlements. In examining the relevant data of the HCSO in 2016 and 2021, we also find that, although this government is talking about a demographic turnaround, unfortunately, the number of single-member households where there is clearly no child-blessing either for health reasons or for their own purposes has increased in the order of tens of thousands since 2010. With regard to the doubling of housing market prices, which is also a barrier to starting a family and often having children, we do not have to go back until 2010, essentially since 2015 prices have doubled. In social media, the news is now running a great deal, according to which the property in Budapest is more expensive than last year, while the Prime Minister advertises himself with a net minimum wage of HUF 133,000. This should be added to the fact that the price of an average size property could have increased by up to HUF 5 million in a single year. We also see that the very difficult situation is aggravated by humiliatingly low wages, and Jobbik has previously put the EU concept of wages on the table, as well as the artificial deterioration and weakening of the forint. The Prime Minister said earlier that only weak people could want weak forints. I can identify perfectly with this idea, but if we look at what kind of earnings were worth a thousand euros in Hungary, we can see that in 2010 we had to earn approximately 265 thousand forints, and now 360 thousand forints. Thus, the difference is limited, and for each imported product there is a price rise in the weak forint exchange rate, but perhaps fewer people know that the price of the domestic food is also greatly reduced by weak forints. On the one hand, because the price of fuel is also affected, and on the other hand, in the case of domestic fruit and vegetables, it is also possible to use foreign machinery, chemicals in production and cultivation. Therefore, no one can exclude themselves from the effects involved. We also see that inflation has been released by the Government of Hungary having nothing to do with it or wanting to do with it. In the price of basic food, harsh urban anecdotes are born, which would not be quoted in the national temple, but there are plenty of articles whose prices have increased by more than 30 percent within a year, i.e. 30 percent. This whole thing is poured down with a kind of negative syrup by the runaway petrol price, which increases pharmaceuticals, basic foods, and every single article we buy. Therefore, the EPP Jobbik has recently mobilised very serious forces to take steps to freeze petrol prices, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to consult on reducing the tax content, excise duty and VAT content of petrol. The first of our three main demands, it seems, is how we should govern from the opposition, but we do not stop, and we also want to achieve the other two. So what we see is that humiliatingly low wages, weak forints, runaway inflation, food prices, and fuel prices are all strangling families who have children's intentions, wanting to thrive in their homeland, while our natural weight loss is strangling. Natural weight loss has increased by 202 percent in the Pest region, and by 113 percent in the North Great Plain, if we look at the period from January to September, which is what KSH has done. It is therefore our determined aim to ensure that in Hungary the possibility of prosperity in the homeland is granted to all families, all present and future children, because the task of a Hungarian parliamentary group and parliamentary representative cannot be imagined more important than to pave the way for it to be worked out. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-11-11-94	Thank you. At the same time, Mr. Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-scheduled speech: It's an address. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-11-11-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is no question that the coronal virus epidemic is raging again in Hungary. There is no question that we must defend ourselves against this, there is no question that the Government of Hungary must take responsible decisions, and there is no question that these rules must be observed. However, the question is how controversial these rules are. For example, here is the letter by Minister Miklós Kásler to the heads of secondary schools, in which he states that students and teachers can attend the ceremony without limitation at the prom, so far that is okay, but parents and family members only have a protection certificate. That's humanly objectionable. But there were conflicting rules before. Just think of the existence of a protection certificate for events above 500 people, while taking part in a hunting exhibition that attracted tens of thousands of visitors without it [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Peace March!]] Or marching and marching on the peace procession. A level step is the 598/2021 government decree, which is published at the end of October, which, by the way, gives Hungarian employers the opportunity to send workers who refuse to be vaccinated on unpaid leave. But what did Prime Minister Viktor Orbán say earlier? If you'll excuse me, I'm quoting you now. I don't think it works in Hungary. The Prime Minister also said that politicians should not want to be epidemiological experts. I don't want to be an epidemiologist now either, because you're right. But if you are right, then the question is why, however, does Prime Minister and Prime Minister's Government want you to be, say, an epidemiologist for a store manager or head of a government office and, without any particular expertise, to decide whether or not employees need a protection certificate or a vaccination. [[13.50]] Ladies and Gentlemen, In recent days, several of my fellow citizens in Somogy, working in the public sector, have contacted me in order to draw the attention of decision makers not to create a situation in which they may lose their livelihood, since vaccination against the coronal virus is still not mandatory in Hungary, and not to send home healthy people who do not have a protection certificate, but who are healthy, do not infect, because how will they support their families, how will they raise their children? I will open a parentheses: not to mention that, for example, the public administration already has so low wages and overloaded workers working, that these people sent on unpaid leave, who cannot be replaced by additional employees, will not be able to replace them, and thus the services provided to customers will also be significantly damaged in the future. I would like to come to what could then be done in order to minimise the risk of infection. Well, for example, here are the best practices: masking, distance keeping, using plexi between clients and administrators, even regular hand disinfection, regular cleaning, to name only a few, or mister's pardon! the Hungarian state could reach into its pocket and, like the neighbouring countries, finance free testing in order to find out that otherwise non-contaminated people can work in peace, work in peace, or even support the consumption of different vitamins and various immunoboosting products. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that, and you can see that I completely agree with him on this, by the way. So in this spirit, I respectfully ask the Government of Hungary to withdraw this decree as soon as possible. Thank you for listening. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2021-11-11-96	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish everyone a good rest.
