u2021-10-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. The 8th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, László Földi and Csaba Gyure will help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work here and in front of the screen. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2019 LXXI on Hungary's central budget for 2020. General debate on the draft law on the implementation of the law until closure. The T/17188. Government referral No 1 and T/17188/1 on the control of the implementation of Hungary's central budget for 2020 submitted by the State Audit Office of Hungary Report No 1 is available on the parliamentary network. Dear Parliament, I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Minister of Finance Mihály Varga, the author of the bill. Mr. Secretary. [[Mihály Varga will take the speaker's stand.]]
u2021-10-20-1	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What were the most important steps in economic policy, and what results have we achieved in the last year? How did Hungary cope with an unknown global epidemic and the subsequent economic crisis? What has the government done for families and businesses? And finally, as a result, what are our prospects for this year and next year? Ladies and gentlemen, I think these are the most important issues in the budget management of the last year, these are the most important issues in the accounts. For this reason, I will say in the introduction here: despite or perhaps due to the fact that the left has not been involved in the defence or the re-launch of the economy, we have results that everyone can be proud of. The past year and a half of Hungary has been marked by an outstanding struggle and outstanding performance, despite the sad losses and damage suffered by us. Everyone, parents, grandparents, children, health workers, educators, factory or office employees, managers and employees had to do much more than they normally do to protect ourselves from the epidemic, and then to restart life and the economy. Thanks to this performance, the work has produced results, and we can now talk about results in a lot of ways. We have gained a leverage in the EU in the re-launching of the economy. The performance of the Hungarian economy is already higher than before the epidemic, while the majority of EU countries still have to wait. This year's growth rate can be record high, reaching 7-7.5 percent. The number of jobs at the 2019 peak was less than now; more than 4 million 700 000 people are working in Hungary. Over a decade, one million jobs have been created, the unemployment rate has fallen from 12 to 4 percent; we are one step away from full employment. Let us recall the doubt that in 2010, it was possible to reach a million more jobs in ten years. I have to say that the pandemic has slipped a little over this year and a half, but this has been achieved by October 2021. This is all due to the fact that we are not treating the crisis with austerity but with a supportive fiscal policy. There is a legitimate question as to the situation in which we would be in the case of left-wing governance. Experience has shown that there would have been cuts, tax increases, redundancies and a huge setback following haste, indecision. I'd like to get back to you on that. In short, Hungary's current favourable position is due to the fact that it does not have a left-wing government. The civilian government followed its own economic policy principles during the crisis. Accordingly, we continued to reduce taxes, support and support families raising children, job creation and investment. Because they create a strong, challenging economy and the 21st century. a nation able to prosper in the century. Fiscal finance policy has also tested well in the crisis and has also provided resources for defence, economic protection and re-launching. At the same time, we remained in the middle of the gold road in terms of the size of the budget deficit and the development of the debt ratio. First, it is the EU average, and the latter is still much more favourable than the EU average. The principles have not changed in this area, so we are working to further reduce Hungary's external vulnerability, debt and budget deficits. The performance of the Hungarian economy over the past year and after the crisis is also recognised from an external perspective, as shown by the ongoing ratings since 2014. We are pleased to note that Hungary can close this year by being in the category recommended for investment in all three credit rating agencies. We have also not lost sight of the fact that the results achieved, the emerging economic indicators, make sense if people can perceive them directly. This is why the government decided to take unprecedented measures: to return the personal income tax paid in 2021 to families raising children. This affects nearly two million people. As a result of this increase, we can also pay a pension premium, rebuild the 13th month pension, as we can, among other things, release the personal income tax of young people under the age of 25. Dear House, From the current global crisis, countries that have built a balanced economy in previous years have been able to avoid the slightest loss and move forward as soon as possible, taking rapid and decisive steps to protect people and the economy after the outbreak, being able to represent their national interests, and preparing for the future with the support of investments during the crisis. Thanks to the consistent economic policy of the last decade, the epidemic affected a resilient, balanced economy last March. This is thanks to the fact that between 2014-19 the Hungarian economy increased by 4.1 percent on average, while comparing the average growth of the EU with 2.1 percent. Thus, public finances were in balance and public debt was steadily and steadily reduced. It is recalled that in 2010 it was still over 80 percent, it fell to 65.5 percent by the end of 2019; Hungary produced one of the fastest growth in the European Union by 4.6 percent in 2019. I can say, therefore, that the work of the last decade has been paid off, because when it was badly needed because of the epidemic, we were able to strengthen families, protect jobs, help businesses in difficulty, and take the necessary steps to restart. You recall that the second Gyurcsány government immediately pursued a austerity fiscal policy in the crisis at that time: they took away the 13th month pension, they abolished the housing support system, they ceased the soccer system, they increased personal income tax, corporate tax, for example, from 16 to 19 percent. In other words, they did exactly the opposite of what the civilian government did now, after the outbreak. [[8.10]] Dear Parliament, The 2020 budget was presented with a 4% increase and a 1 percent budget deficit. The epidemic, however, paralyzed the world economy, disrupted all previous planning. The European Union's economic performance has fallen by almost 6 percent. Hungary has survived the year of crisis more positively with 4.7 percent decline. The lack of a government sector according to the EU methodology was achieved by 8% of gross domestic product. Both the fight against the epidemic and the expenditure on economic protection measures have played a role. At the end of the year, the debt calculated according to the EU methodology reached 80.1 percent as a result of the budgetary measures taken to curb the pandemic. A lot of false news and false statements are circulating about this, so I remind you that the government debt-to-GDP ratio exceeded 80% at the time of the 2010 government change, from this level to 65.5 per cent by the end of 2019, and it is perhaps much more important to add that the foreign currency ratio of the debt decreased from 52 per cent in 2011 to 20 per cent in 2011 and that the debt held by foreigners decreased from 65 per cent to 34 per cent. This resulted in the largest reduction in debt ratios over the last 8 years in 2019. Dear House, With regard to economic developments, it can be concluded that in the second quarter of 2020, the epidemic has dropped its economic performance by almost 14 percent, to an unprecedented extent. In the third quarter, the rapid recovery was seen. Recovery continued in the fourth quarter, despite the need to re-introduce restrictive measures. This recovery was strongly supported by the launch of the economic protection action plan in spring 2020 in parallel with the emergence of the corona virus in Hungary. The action plan was aimed at strengthening families, supporting pensioners, preserving jobs, helping sectors in difficulty. The government has taken measures that have never been seen before, representing around 30% of gross domestic product. In order to mention some of these, there were tax cuts, wage subsidies, the launch of the repayment moratorium, subsidies to encourage improvements, and economic protection measures to extend public guarantee schemes. It is therefore not surprising that the 2020 Budget Act also had to be redesigned. In parallel with the planning of the 2021 budget, the Government was able to do so in such a way that the resources for defence were available on an ongoing basis. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2020 budget was a budget for support for families, and the epidemic did not change that. During the epidemic, family support has received even more attention in Hungary. In 2020, the emergency family support benefits were extended and the measures taken in the pre-pandemic period were maintained. The actions of the Family Protection Action Plan continued in 2020. Let me also highlight some of these new measures introduced in 2020. From 1 January 2020, mothers raising at least four children during their lives shall be exempt from the payment of personal income tax. The family contribution allowance can therefore be applied from 1 July 2020 to 18,5 percent of the social security contribution. As of 1 July 2020, childcare recipients may also benefit from the first successful language examination and the training and examination fee for basic transport skills. The cost of home care and care for children continued to increase. As of 14 November 2020, the VAT on food and drink sales to be carried out or sold by home delivery was temporarily reduced to 5 per cent in parallel with the restaurant closure measure. It is also important to mention pensioners: from July 2020 all forms of work under the pension will be exempt from the obligation to pay contributions and social contributions. Dear House, What has the government done for workers at this difficult time? Allow me to make a brief reference to these, too. In the first half of 2020, we introduced support for reduced working time employment and the R &amp; D sector. In particular, the labour market effects of the second and third wave of the epidemic are addressed by the sectoral wage support programme introduced in November 2020 and by the programme to preserve jobs in the re-launched R &amp; D sector. As a result of these measures, the number of people in employment was once again positive after a temporary downturn in the second half of 2020. The unemployment rate in 2020 was 4.1 percent, which remains one of the lowest in the European Union. And as I mentioned, the number of people working today has reached a 30-year record. It is an important fact that, despite the economic downturn, real earnings continued to increase by 6.2 percent in 2020. So, pandemics, coronaviruses, Covid epidemics, wages, actions, they were able to grow. Overall, the government's measures, in addition to these, have contributed to reducing social and economic damage and preserving jobs, e.g. the credit moratorium, the waiver of the obligation to pay contributions, as well as the extension of the rights of children, children and children in emergency situations, thereby helping to increase the income available to households. Dear House, There have been many criticisms of the government's investments, as have the support of corporate investment. There was a left-wing congressman here in Parliament who would have stopped them. It cannot be stressed enough that investment, in addition to protecting and creating jobs, means preparing for the future, improving and increasing competitiveness. Public investment increased by 4.5 percent annually in 2020, with government development worth more than HUF 3000 billion in total in the economy. This increased last year to 6.4 percent in terms of their share of public investment in gross domestic product. In particular, investments in health care related to inpatient care increased by 15 percent and in education by 7 percent. I'm just suggesting that the first victim of the crisis management of the Gyurcsány government was health care. Now, overall, the investment rate remained at a high level, almost 27 per cent in 2020. Dear House, Whether it is economic growth or a crisis, the civil government supports tax cuts. One of the important instruments for crisis management was the tax system, a further reduction of taxes. Accordingly, the weight of taxes on income continued to decrease. The administrative burden on taxation has also been further reduced, and tax morale has also improved. Let me also highlight some measures here. In the months concerned, businesses received tax relief through social contribution tax, vocational training contribution, rehabilitation contribution and small enterprise tax. [[8.20]] In addition to supporting the sectors most affected by the epidemic, the government reduced the social contribution tax by 2 percentage points from 1 July 2020 to 15.5 percent. According to the agreement between the competition sphere and the government in 2016, the employer's public burden on labour was continuously reduced by 11.5 percentage points between 2016 and July 2020. There has never been such a series of tax reductions in the Hungarian economy before. At the reduction in July 2020, the real wage growth of the competition sector did not reach the level set out in this agreement, but, apart from that, the government reduced the rate of social contribution tax in order to safeguard jobs. The government also assisted the tourism sector most exposed to the coronal virus epidemic with tax measures. The Széchenyi Resting Card, commonly known as the SZÉP card, reduced its public burden by about half, to 15 percent, while the amount of the credit card was doubled. The stakeholders did not have to pay any contribution to the development of tourism or any tax on tourism. Neither did the municipalities suffer any damage, because the tourist tax was paid by the central budget instead of the guests, so it was the State. The deadline for submitting reports and related annual tax returns was extended until 30 September in order to ease the administrative and tax burden on businesses. Two out of three companies took advantage of the option, based on the experience gained so far. In order to improve the liquidity situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, the VAT allocation deadline has also been significantly shortened. The majority of small and medium-sized enterprises could receive the reclaimed amount within 30 days instead of 75 days. Let me also highlight some measures that will enter into force this year. We reduced the VAT on new-built apartments to 5%. Only this measure alone left 110 billion forints out in the economy. We've made the CHOK apartments free of charge. The Kiva key was also reduced by 1 percentage point to 11 percent in 2021 after 2020; this was also a significant help for small businesses. In 2021, we maximized the business tax on small and medium-sized enterprises by 1 percent, which helped the small and medium-sized enterprises sector operate by nearly HUF 84 billion. Finally, let me point out one more thing: businesses in the epidemic-stricken sectors have been exempt from employers' taxes and VAT during this period. This, too, was able to provide significant assistance of tens of billions of HUF. Next year, in addition to the fact that the minimum wage will be much higher, the rate of tax on the employer will also decrease significantly by 4 percentage points. This is currently 17 percent, and from 1 January 2022 it will be 13 percent. Tax reductions will continue this year and next year. In two years the government will leave almost 2,000 billion forints for families, the population and businesses. Dear House, With a very loud attack, the left demanded an immediate wage increase in almost all areas, and even some said that there would certainly not be a medical wage increase in Hungary. At this point, I have to say that we have been able to base the overall wage increase programme launched in 2021 for several years in the 2020 budget. Health and health workers were also granted a one-time special allowance of HUF 500,000 from the budget. This meant more than HUF 100 billion, to be exact, HUF 101,3 billion. The career plans that have already begun have continued and have been added. Among other things, teachers received a 10% salary increase. In the framework of the multi-stage wage arrangement in the healthcare sector, workers and women in charge received a 14 percent wage increase from 1 January and a 20 percent wage increase from 1 November. We have introduced a 10-percent salary supplement for all law enforcement and defence professional personnel. The law enforcement and defense staff received another 5% increase. Vocational training workers received a 30% wage increase. The financial recognition of daycare workers, the increase in the social sector bonus and cultural wage development have also been carried out. The wage arrangements for employees at government offices have also been implemented. The Eötvös Loránd Research Network's operation was supported by HUF 11 billion in 2020, with an average wage development of 30%. Dear House, Let me also talk about public finances and certain areas of public finances. Despite the crisis, the individual areas were able to farm from more, significantly larger sources than they did a year ago. Let me pick some of these, too. The budget provided a significant source of funding for the. Healthy Budapest, the development of family-friendly obstetrics, the operation of air rescues, the extraordinary support of health institutions, the operation of the residency system, the purchase of ambulances from the National Rescue Service, public health tasks and expenditure related to the acquisition of vaccines. Developments related to inpatient care have also continued. In particular, the Mazhis Love Hospital and the II. As a representative of the district, I am pleased to say that the development of the Irregularity Hospital in Buda and the complex development of the Szent Borbála Hospital in Tatabánya have also been carried out in the framework of the programme "Modern Cities." Education and vocational training have also gained more, and the process of changing the higher education model has also continued. The cultural sector received an additional HUF 24 billion to cover the loss of income of the institutions. Among the Hungarian development expenditures, a significant source was also available for the investment of the Modern Cities programme and the Hungarian village programme, as well as for the modernisation of the road and rail network. In the course of the year, as I have already mentioned, we have provided significant resources for the implementation of tourism developments, for the competitiveness support of health companies and other businesses, as well as for the large enterprise investment support programme. In addition, last year, we had to provide funding to reduce mass immigration, protect borders and increase the effectiveness of counter-terrorism. Dear House, In 2020, beneficiaries received EU budget support of HUF 2000 billion. 80% of the payments were made by the cohesion programmes, 12% by the rural development programme and the remaining 8 percent by other EU programmes with a lower budget. The farmers received a further HUF 516 billion of direct agricultural support outside the budget, so we were able to provide significant help in the development of the domestic countryside, as well as in support of agriculture. All in all, the payment of HUF 2548 billion was made in 2020, which is 24 percent more than in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me also say a few words about the Pension Insurance Fund and the Health Insurance Fund, which are an important part of public finances. In the Pension Insurance Fund, the spending of pensions continued to increase significantly in 2020, covering 2.2 million people. Overall, pension expenditure increased by 4.1 percent and nearly 143 billion HUF compared to HUF 3500 billion in the previous year. In 2010, the government promised to protect the real value of pensions. Accordingly, pensions were increased by almost 40% between 2011 and 2020. [[8.30]] Last year, pensions were increased by 4 percent following inflation. We spent some HUF 27 billion more on retirement for women below the age limit than we did in 2019. In 2020, women spent around HUF 287 billion on 40, providing more than 155 000 women with a reduced retirement allowance. Thanks to the government's balanced pension policy, the pension fund was managed in a stable framework last year. Dear Parliament, A few words about the operation of the Health Insurance Fund. 70 percent of the revenue from the Health Insurance Fund was provided by contributions and contributions, which amounted to nearly HUF 1800 billion, and a small part was included in the fund's revenue in the form of a budget contribution. More than a quarter of the fund's expenditure is paid for cash benefits through baby care fees, childcare and adoption fees, sick pay, disability, rehabilitation benefits, so they were paid for, and nearly three quarters were used to finance benefits in kind by health insurance. Among the benefits in kind, preventive care provided cover for the above mentioned health wage increases, the payment of an exceptional one-off allowance of about HUF 500 thousand gross for health and health workers, an additional HUF 250 000 per month for dental service providers, the increase in the financing of trauma and vascular surgery benefits, the involvement of new procedures in public funding, the strengthening of the state-owned facility for fertility management, and, last but not least, the settlement of the overdue debt of public-funded healthcare providers. Expenditure on drug support exceeded last year's performance by more than 6 percent in 2020. Dear House, The central funding of local authorities was also implemented in 2020 under a task-based support scheme adapted to the tasks of the local government. Perhaps the most frequently heard criticism was the budget support for municipalities in relation to disease management. In fact, the authorities have also taken their part in dealing with the epidemic. The total effect of the transfer of the vehicle tax was about HUF 40 billion, which is about 1 percent of the total annual budget of the municipalities. With regard to municipalities, the government continued to prioritise support for children's meals and holiday meals. To this end, the budget provided wage and operational support in line with the cost of the task. Despite the emergency situation, local authorities have not stopped their ongoing developments. The government has provided specific support for developments related to the mandatory tasks of the local government. And the municipalities could also use support for new start-up economic recovery investments. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the State Audit Office for its work on the audit of the accounts. In its report, the Court pointed out that I quote that, literally, in the implementation of the central budget for 2020, legal and competent persons managed the public funds properly. The structure and content of the draft closing act are in line with the legal requirements. - Thank you for working with us. Dear House, To sum up, the 2020 accounts show that the budget has established a sound basis for the control of the epidemic and the protection of the economy. It is due to the 2020 budget that Hungary, without the help of foreign financial institutions, has survived the crisis by standing on its own feet in 2008, as it has created the basis for a successful re-launch of the economy; we hope that this economic growth will be significant this year, and we will also expect further growth next year, so the Hungarian economy was able to return to the growth path. Dear House, In the light of what has been said, I would also ask you to discuss and accept the draft discharge law for 2020. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-20-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office indicated that the opening speech would be shared by the President and the Vice-President. First of all, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, author of the report. Mr. President, please.
u2021-10-20-3	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Mrs. and Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, In compliance with its statutory obligation, the State Audit Office carried out an audit of the draft law on the implementation of Hungary's central budget for 2020. The State Audit Office found that the budgetary revenue and expenditure data provided in the draft discharge law for 2020 are reliable, that the structure and content of the draft discharge act are in line with the provisions of the legislation, and that the legal and competent persons in the implementation of the central budget have properly managed public funds. Vice-President Magdolna Holman explains in detail the results of the audit of the closing accounting law, and I myself focus mainly on presenting the economic processes behind the budget, and I would like to talk about what Resilient Budget Policy means, and in particular what it meant in the year behind us. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Article 36 (5) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary provides that, as long as the public debt exceeds half of the total domestic product, Parliament may only adopt a law on a central budget containing a reduction in the ratio of the public debt to the total domestic product. LXXI of 2019 on Hungary's central budget for 2020 Law 1 has complied with this requirement, as stated by the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council in 2019. In the event of economic growth, the condition of reducing the sovereign debt ratio should also be met in the implementation of the budget. The Proposal for a Final Accountancy Act 3. However, the State Audit Office's report does not indicate that the value of the sovereign debt indicator has increased from 64,2 per cent in 2019 to 77,6 per cent by the end of 2020. Why not? Because, if we read further the cited paragraph of the Fundamental Law, we see in paragraph 6 that, in a special legal order, it is necessary to mitigate the circumstances caused by the circumstances that caused it or, in the event of a permanent and significant decline in the national economy, as last year, the need to reduce the sovereign debt indicator may be deviated to the extent necessary to restore the balance of the national economy. And after a lasting debate takes place in Parliament about the role of the Fiscal Council in the creation of the budget, let me have a thought. I believe that those who advocate the rule of the Fundamental Law of Hungary on debt reduction and thus the reduction of the country's vulnerability have nothing to fear from the decision of the Fiscal Council, since the Fiscal Council has nothing to fear in order to safeguard the Fundamental Law and the vulnerability of the country. raise a veto in the drafting of a draft budget law. [[8.40]] I think that it is important to clarify this, because it is worth examining things in its content, including the role of the legal institutional system. Allow me to continue. The legislation refers to the rule read as an exemption clause, and the State Audit Office report also uses that term. However, as an economist, I do not consider this rule to be an enabling provision. By the empowering provision, it is usually understood that a higher level of legislation authorises the creation of a lower level of legislation, for example, the Parliament authorises the Government to create a government decree on a given subject. According to the general legal position, the authorisation is also an obligation to draw up the relevant legislation. Dear Parliament, Why am I using this analogy? Because the expression of the exemption clause gives it the impression that someone did wrong, but given the circumstances, we ignore its negative consequences. In the present case, however, it is not at all about the fact that the Parliament has to turn a blind eye to the forced increase in the sovereign debt indicator. We need to put the emphasis somewhere else. The cited provision of the Fundamental Law must be seen as an authorisation for the government to deviate from the requirement to reduce the sovereign debt indicator to the extent necessary to mitigate the consequences of the underlying circumstances and to the extent necessary to restore balance. In the sense of the mandate as an obligation, I can say that the Government would have acted aimlessly and contrary to a constitution if it had not taken that mandate and put the aspects of budgetary balance above the measures necessary to remedy the exceptional situation. I consciously used the term medicine, for the lives of many people depended on the government to ensure that the necessary measures were taken to control the epidemic. It was no less important to preserve jobs in the economic conditions caused by the epidemic, i.e. to promote the financial security of people. Why are we talking about an exemption clause? In fact, in the European Union and in many countries around the world, after the outbreak, the exemption from compliance with the rules had to be granted subsequently to the governments of that country. On the other hand, our fundamental law, which has been much and violently criticised here by the opposition, has been included since the moment of its adoption, i.e. since 2012, in order to empower the current government to act in this situation. I am referring not only to the mandate already mentioned, but also to the fact that, in the event of an emergency, the laws authorised the government to rearrange the structure of the budget adopted by the Parliament in very different circumstances, by way of derogation from the provisions of the Public Finance Act, and to regroup the resources of the budget with the creation of two new funds for the control of the epidemic and the protection of the economy. So the concept of the rule-based budget, which was initiated by the State Audit Office before 2010, for the National Assembly at that time, provided proper, impact-resistant and adequate flexibility for a crisis management within the framework of the Fundamental Law which entered into force from 1 January 12 and this certain rule-based nature worked perfectly in the context of the crisis management. So, not to a particular government, but to resolve a particular situation within the Constitution, it gave an appropriate framework, room for manoeuvre. Therefore, the legal framework for a systemic response was available to Hungary through the Fundamental Law, not a rush, not a case-by-case nature. As a consequence, the main question of the Court of Auditors when verifying the implementation of the 2020 budget was that the government had made good use of the powers it had received in the event of an emergency. However, the possibility of abuse in the event of an emergency is particularly increased, so that in the audit of the Court of Auditors, we have checked the regularity of the use of public funds as closely as we have done every previous year. However, we did not start this work during the audit of the accounts, but in the thousands of budgetary bodies of the last year we have checked the building and functioning of controls that are best suited to prevent abuse, and in the event of a lack of this, we have constantly drawn the attention of the leaders in a letter of Presidential awareness as to which risks they need to continuously resolve and address. By the way, our experience is that there were a very large proportion of partners in this, and I should thank you here, because under defence conditions, they could have asked for discharges so many times that they did not comply with the legislation, and I see that this control pointed out that according to the Hungarian Basic Law, regular spending was as valuable as the rules for the use of money. I therefore believe that my colleagues have done everything in their power to ensure that this precarious situation also takes place within an orderly legislative framework in each settlement. Dear House, In addition to the audit of the accounts, the State Audit Office has traditionally carried out an analysis of the budgetary processes of the year audited. This was also prepared and submitted to the Parliament this year at the same time as the opinion and report of the draft closing act. I would like to highlight the main findings and assessments of this analysis. Before the outbreak of the Covid-19 epidemic in Hungary, macroeconomic and budgetary developments developed positively, as the real national income increased every year between 13 and 19 years, the government deficit-to-GDP ratio fell from 2012 to below the so-called Maastricht deficit target of 3 per cent, while the government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased from 80.4 per cent in 2011 to 64.2 per cent in 2019. The outbreak of the coronal virus epidemic in March 2020 has thus had a shock-like negative impact on a country of national origin with strong fundamentals, which has been growing for years. The first and second wave of the epidemic caused a strong economic downturn during the year, resulting in GDP in 2020 and national income in Hungary falling by 4.7 percent in real terms compared to the previous year. This rate can be assessed as more than one percentage point more favourable than 5.9 percent of the EU average thanks to stable fundamentals and government measures taken during the year. In order to mitigate the economic shock caused by the coronal virus epidemic, the government used a supply-incentive crisis management economic policy to curb the economic downturn and to achieve recovery as soon as possible. With its powers in the event of an emergency, the government has allocated budgetary resources to the economic protection and control of the epidemic for the benefit of the Economic Protection Fund established for this purpose as well as the Anti-CDC Fund. [[8.50]] As a result of the supply-oriented economic policy, the investment rate in our country was, in fact, moderate, but increased, even in spite of the unfavourable macroeconomic environment. The most significant contribution to the improved trend of the investment rate was the last quarter of last year's investment in the budgetary sector and the dynamic increase in housing investment. It is also an outstanding role for the state to retain and create jobs, including through tax facilitations and tax waivers, and targeted support for knowledge and technology development. On the part of the Court of Auditors, we find it particularly positive that tax reliefs, tax waivers, continued maintenance of tax whitening, which has been established for several years, have also been possible in a difficult, crisis-related environment, which, I believe, will create a very serious potential for additional tax revenue in the coming years and, on the other hand, the cleanliness of market conditions will be able to contribute to a balanced development of economic operators overall. As a result of crisis management, employment and unemployment data improved by the end of the year following the second quarter of 2020. The effectiveness of the measures is also notable in an international comparison, as the employment rate of the 15-64-year-olds in Hungary in 2020 has decreased to a lesser extent than in 2019 but has been more favourable than the average of the 27 countries in the European Union. Government measures have significantly affected the achievement of budgetary revenue and expenditure foreseen. The loss of tax and contribution revenues was mitigated by the specific retail tax introduced to partially finance additional expenditure due to the epidemic, as well as by the epidemiological special tax on credit institutions. Government economic protection measures amounting to HUF 4030.7 billion have somewhat mitigated the tax base reduction effect, but have also increased budget expenditure by HUF 3088.2 billion compared to the initial allocation. The advance of EU funds from the domestic budget, as in previous years, was able to continue in 2020, so that improvements could be made more quickly and without obstacles, but budgetary support for the development planned for EU funds was an increasing factor for budget deficits and public debt. EU development was planned in 2020 as an initial appropriation of HUF 1682.3 billion in expenditure, which was achieved in HUF 2032.6 billion, i.e. HUF 350.3 billion in a larger amount. The total revenue of the EU development budget was planned at HUF 1496 billion. Revenues were totalled at HUF 1787 billion, which exceeded the planned appropriations by HUF 291 billion. In total, the deviation from the draft increased the initially planned deficit of HUF 186.3 billion in the EU's development budget by HUF 59.3 billion, i.e. the EU's development budget ended with a deficit of HUF 245.6 billion. In English: extra income from the European Union, additional resources for dealing with the crisis did not appear, but we had to involve resources to increase the country's debt so that these programmes could be implemented. The missed budget revenues and increased expenditure were not covered by additional revenue or internal transfers, resulting in a cash-flow deficit of HUF 53113 billion by the central government subsystem last year. The lack of an EU methodology for the government sector at the end of 2020 is also significant, according to ESA, according to preliminary data, 5 percentage points above the Maastricht criterion of the GDP-to-GDP-to-GDP ratio. However, this has not led to an infringement situation, as the obligation to apply these rules in the light of the epidemic has practically been suspended ex post by the Union, i.e. it has been decided by the European Union that this rule should not apply in the implementation of the budgets of the Member States of the European Union. The government sector's consolidated gross debt according to the EU methodology amounted to HUF 38 411.6 billion at the end of 2020 and 81.1 percent of GDP. During the crisis caused by the outbreak of the Crown Virus in 2020, there was a great deal of public involvement in cooperation and encouragement with active economic operators in Hungary. In 2020 the resilience of society, health and the economy was the most demanded of the residual fiscal policy against the negative effects of the epidemic. Consequently, the efforts to maintain budgetary balance in 2020 would have had particularly damaging consequences. The Hungarian economic policy, which responds to external environmental impacts, has led the state to change its role, thus promoting investment on the one hand and protecting people's lives on the other. At the same time, the incentive state measures have strengthened the resilience of the national economy. In the budgetary process, it is reflected that the government, taking advantage of the legislative powers in relation to financial opportunities and emergencies, protecting people's lives and health and financing measures to preserve jobs and replace jobs that have ceased to exist in previous years, has given priority. Dear House, Honourable Members, Finally, let me highlight, on the basis of the lessons learned from the socio-economic processes of last year, the challenges of the present and the future, that Hungary, the whole population, has a fundamental interest in halting the economy and perhaps avoiding relapse in this year and the following year. This will require a wider avoidance of stopping with the pandemic, which, I believe, I must say in person, is the solution. The interests here, I think, point in the same direction, towards the economy, the budget and the individual people's existence and future. Thank you very much for your attention. I now give the floor to Vice President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-20-4	That's right. I give the floor to Mrs Holman Magdolna, Vice-President of the State Audit Office, the rapporteur of the report. Madam Vice President, please.
u2021-10-20-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Two weeks ago, the State Audit Office of Hungary fulfilled its highest and most important tasks in terms of public finances each year when it presented its report to Parliament on the control of the implementation of Hungary's central budget for 2020. Our main task is to give an opinion on the regularity of the management of more than 28 000 billion public funds, and most importantly, because the audit strongly supports the transparency of public finances by giving an account of the reliability of the revenue and expenditure data of the entire central subsystem. [[9.00]] The audit of the implementation of the central budget is carried out by the State Audit Office on the basis of Hungary's Fundamental Law. The annual obligation to verify the accounts is laid down in the Act on the State Audit Office. The closing accounts shall include the actual fulfilment of the revenue and expenditure of the State. The rules for the submission, referral and negotiation by the Government of the draft closing act, as well as the mandatory requirements of the draft closing act, are laid down in the Public Finance Act. In the framework of the audit of the implementation of the central budget, the SAO checks the accounts for the implementation of the budget of the financial funds for social security, the financial statements of the financial funds for social security and the accounts for the implementation of the budget of the separate public funds. The audit of the accounts shall be carried out on the basis of the SAO audit methodology. Under the Law on the Court of Auditors, as one of the cornerstones of its independence, the rules and methods of control are developed and published on its website as the President's decision. The SAO's constitutional and other legal requirements relating primarily to its operation are taken into account in the development of rules and methods of control, while taking into account the professional principles and rules recognised by international audit bodies, the INTOSAI audit standards. This is also the methodology for checking the accounts, which is in line with the international framework, taking into account domestic legislation on our public website, which was renewed by the Court of Auditors in 2014 and we have carried out an audit of the accounts in accordance with it since 2015. The most important aspect of the methodology that was renewed at the time was to give an informed opinion on the implementation of the budget as a whole, in accordance with the relevant legislative provisions, on the basis of the audit procedures used. To this end, the Court's audit of the closure accounts covers one hundred percent of the expenditure and revenue of the central subsystem. In the same way as in previous years, we have assessed the adequacy of the payment expenditure and revenue provided for in the draft discharge act. When verifying the reliability of the data, the total error affecting reliability was assessed as 2% of the total expenditure and revenue of the central budget. We used statistical methods in the same way as the previous years, and in the evaluation, we followed the rules of the statistics. The assessment of the elements of the control environment was part of the verification of the accounts, as its proper design is a determining factor for the management of organisations and contributes to the detection of material cases of non-compliance. We have assessed the adequacy of the draft discharge law and the implementation of the public debt requirements of the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act for the development of a sound opinion. We appreciated the use of revenue from public finances in accordance with the legal requirements, that the bill was a realistic presentation of financial data and information on the implementation of the budget. We checked that the implementation of the Budget Act complied with the legislation and that the cash flow data provided in the bill did not contain any material error affecting reliability. We also checked that in the implementation of the central budget, the legal and competent authorities managed the public money properly. Dear House, The audit carried out on the basis of the audit methodology for the implementation of the budget gives a comprehensive and objective picture of the reliability of the data contained in the draft discharge law for 2020. It was found that the budgetary revenue and expenditure data provided in the draft discharge law for 2020 were reliable and that the budgetary institution system ensured the regularity of public finance management in 2020. What does that mean? On the basis of the 2020 shut-down bill proposal, the central sub-scheme accounted for HUF 23 020.8 billion in revenue and HUF 28 332.1 billion in expenditure, thus the actual cash flow deficit of the central subsystem amounts to HUF 53113 billion. The draft law was drawn up by the Ministry of Finance in the structure and content of the legislation and presents, as required, the reasons for the lack of a central subsystem and the deviation from the rate envisaged in the budget, as well as the way in which the deficit is financed. The appropriations for central and chapter management within the central sub-sector of the general government, the central budget bodies, the financial funds for social security and the revenue and expenditure of the allocated public funds presented in the draft closing act were reliable. The draft discharge law is a realistic presentation of financial data and information on the implementation of the budget. The implementation of the revenue and expenditure appropriations of the central sub-scheme was regular, the adjustment of appropriations, the establishment of the budget balance and the compilation of the annual budget accounts were in line with the legal requirements. The SAO has been assessing the adequacy of the control environment for years in the context of the audit of the accounts. The development of the control environment was appropriate for each of the controls of the separate public funds, the institutions of the constitutional chapters and the controls of the appropriations managed by the chapter. The adequacy of the internal control system improved in 2020 compared to 2019, with significant contributions from actions to ensure proper functioning. The SAO audits carried out in previous years have had positive effects in other areas, and we are pleased that since 2014, 2020 is the year when the national family and social policy fund is also responsible for spending on family support. This is thanks to the fact that there has been a comprehensive correction to indicate the President's letters of attention, and decades of lack of accountability have been addressed step by step both in the area of administrative procedures and in the area of treasury payments. This required the systematic work of the county government offices and the Hungarian State Treasury, which is not a small extra effort. In the context of irregularities detected during the audit, a total of 23 audited organisations were sent to raise awareness. In these, we have identified irregularities and shortcomings that threaten the cost of public money which is transparent and accountable. The irregularities recorded in the notices concerned the issues of the control environment, the management declaration on the assessment of the quality of the internal control system, the commitment and the functioning of the controls prior to payment. The errors recorded in the awareness letters did not reach the materiality level, so the reliability of the data contained in the draft discharge law and the regularity of the implementation of the central budget as a whole were not affected. Dear Parliament, In addition to fulfilling our statutory obligation, the adequacy of the draft closing act and the reliability of the data contained therein have been checked with the main aim of supporting Parliament, you in the informed adoption of the bill for the implementation of the 2020 budget, the adoption of which is recommended on the basis of the work of the Court of Auditors. We are confident that our work will contribute to the fulfilment of the requirements of accountability and transparency, to further improving the public financial situation in our mission. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-20-6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a maximum timeframe of 30-30 minutes. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Lajos Szűcs. Here you go. [[9.10]]
u2021-10-20-7	Deep down, Mr President. Colleagues! Madam Secretary! Mr. Secretary. First of all, I would like to thank the State Audit Office for its work. And just in order to say a few sentences between the walls of the House that we cannot always say, it was the year 1870 when Hungary could form the first independent budget after the settlement, and there was already the need to be not only the lay representatives who would give an opinion on the budget, but also to create an organisation that could explain and ultimately control the budgetary processes. This is when the State Audit Office was set up for a European example, so since 1870 they have been able to meet the SAO's work between the walls of Parliament. But to have a little twist in it, in 1949, in the constitution of that time, known to many, the communist regime virtually abolished the State Audit Office, as well as the audit and supervisory work. Then, following the roundtable negotiations in 1989, the old Parliamentary system created the law on the Court of Auditors, and the Court of Auditors resumed its work from 1990. So we are now in a historic moment, listening to the 30th budget discharge and discussing what the Court of Auditors has done, so thank you and wish all the Court of Auditors staff good work. First, I will say the three words or the attempt on the sentence that Mr President said about the budget closing: reliable, legal and regular. These are the three parts of the sentence that we can say most of all about the 2020 accounts. The discharge law was submitted by the Government at the end of September, according to the legal deadline, and, as has already been stated, the State Audit Office of Hungary has delivered its opinion. The aim of such a closing account is always to appreciate the year left behind in the light of the final figures. We do not need to stress it specifically, we just remember that the year 2020 was extraordinary for everyone. We have experienced how our lives can change overnight or from week to week thanks to a pandemic. For this changing relationship, the budget had to be clearly shaped, as the draft budget for 2020 submitted and adopted in 2019 would not have been able to deal with the epidemic or the economic processes resulting from the epidemic as a result of these changes. However, it should be noted here that we are still holding a closing account, which we can talk about, which does not show the closing accounting laws that I have seen here in Parliament for the last 20 years. There is no loose ends in this closing act; there is no salad law attached to it to settle processes like those we are accustomed to. It is enough to remember only the year 2008-2009, when the closing act handled the lost benefits, the 13th month's pension, the 13th month's wages for civil servants, the huge borrowings and the tax increases and changes resulting from it. I think from this point of view, it's really a unicum, and we can say a little bit that we're gonna be discussing a boring closing bill proposal. And yet this is due to the fact that the Hungarian government conducted a very disciplined fiscal policy between 2012 and 2019, so when the coronal virus epidemic struck, the epidemic hit a well-founded and balanced economy last March. A few words about the numbers. In 2020, this has been said several times by the speakers before me, the national total product of our country has decreased by 4.7 percent, which is good in the EU's comparison, since the EU average was 5.9 percent. Unfortunately, the corona virus overrided previous expectations, as the government's projected 4% increase in budget planning could not be achieved. In the framework of the economic protection action plan, significant resources have flown to the economy, which have helped businesses, households and workers alike. Three funds were established to ensure the sources of control of the epidemic. The first is the Anti-CDC Fund. Its creation guaranteed that there should be no financial barrier to health protection. In the Anti-CDC Fund, 633.5 billion forints were insured, the largest of which is the central reserve for the control of the epidemic; previously, the National Defence Fund was already available for HUF 378 billion. From 1 May 2020, the retail tax was introduced, based on the amount of revenue generated by the retail activity, in order to ensure the resources of the Anti-CDC Fund. Furthermore, the car tax has been redirected to the central budget. In addition, a special credit institution tax based on the system of special tax on financial entities was provided in 2020 for the control of the coronal virus epidemic. In the second half of last year, it has already become clear that the amounts transferred to the Anti-CDC Fund will not cover the expenditure incurred. The Fund's appropriations were opened from above, so they could be exceeded. The insured funds eventually paid HUF 945.5 billion, mainly for the purchase of medical supplies for protection. The second fund we've created is the Economic Protection Fund. This was a measure to avoid the negative effects of the epidemic on the economy. One important element of this measure was the inclusion of the National Employment Fund in the Economic Protection Fund, which guaranteed the continuation of employment and production programmes and the maintenance of priority sectoral programmes. In addition, following transfers from the wallets, HUF 1345.7 billion was available in the Economic Protection Fund. By the end of the year, significant fund insurances were made, amounting to HUF 4030.7 billion. In particular, the resources have been provided to support investments based on the growth of the 2021-2022 marketing year. The basis for epidemic aid from the European Union is the third fund that has been established. The regulation on the establishment of this has created the possibility of receiving and using aid that may come from the Union. However, no support was received in Hungary last year. It has been achieved that despite the Covid-19 epidemic, the number of workers' incomes has not decreased, due to measures to support job preservation and to significantly rising wages in the midst of the crisis. [[9.20]] Despite what happened last year, real earnings increased by 6.2 percent in 2020, but the cautious spending of the population slightly slowed down the economy. Household consumption expenditure fell by 1.6 percent, which is considered to be small in European comparison. The number of jobs has also decreased in the last year, but it has been said here in Parliament that as many jobs are lost, we will rebuild as many jobs as possible. We are pleased to say that this year, not only did they recover, but there have been more jobs, and the unemployment figures in Hungary have fallen to an unprecedented depth, there is a shortage of labour rather than a surplus of labour. Therefore, the investment rate increased by 26,8 per cent in 2020. Ongoing large-scale capacity increases and the attractive corporate tax environment have established a further increase in investment performance and an increase in competitiveness. State investments increased nominally by 4.5 percent in 2020. An annual comparison resulted in government development worth more than HUF 3000 billion in the economy, so in the last year the share of public investment compared to the total national product increased to 6.4 percent. The government planned an inflation rate of 2.8 per cent for 2020, which increased by 0.5 percentage points by the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, The deficit and public debt budgetary rules have been suspended in 2020 due to the economic downturn resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, but, of course, not only in our countries but in all the Member States of the European Union. The debt ratio was 77.2 per cent at the end of 2020. The general government deficit was achieved at HUF 5422.5 billion compared to HUF 412.5 billion in statutory appropriations, which is 11,3 percent of the total national product. The lack of a government sector according to the EU methodology has been achieved by several times exceeding the planned 1 percent deficit, with 8 percent. The deficit, which is well above 3 per cent, according to the EU methodology, was clearly the result of the pandemic control that started at the beginning of the year and the economic crisis caused by the epidemic. In 2020 there was a total of HUF 1100 billion less tax and contribution revenue than planned. This is partly related to long-term and temporary tax measures aimed at mitigating the crisis, with an amount of some HUF 312 billion, but to a greater extent, it can be traced back to the economic recession of some HUF 770 billion. On the expenditure side, some HUF 4031 billion from the Economic Protection Fund, which was created during the year to deal with the crisis, was insured with transfers and payments within the budget of nearly HUF 943 billion, and a total of HUF 945 billion from the CDC was provided. Ladies and gentlemen, As regards economic developments, it can be concluded that, in the second quarter of 2020, the epidemic dropped economic activity to an unprecedented extent, with a rapid correction from the third quarter. Recovery continued in the fourth quarter, despite the re-introduction of restrictive measures from autumn onwards. It is good that industrial production, for example, was able to grow by 2.1 percent with significant plant closures in April. I believe that thanks to strong fundamentals and comprehensive, rapid and effective crisis management, the performance of the Hungarian economy has proved to be more resilient to the epidemic throughout 2020 than the average of EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen, The year 2020 was without a doubt an extraordinary year, with extraordinary decisions and measures that put everyone to serious challenges. In view of all of this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the draft discharge law, because we have all done a lot and fought in 2020 to ensure that Hungary survives the pandemic with as little financial and human loss as possible. I ask you to do this despite the fact that I know that we will not find sentences supporting this work from opposition benches, even though you have had every opportunity to help protect yourself from the epidemic, but as history has shown, you have rather hindered this work in the last year. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You even destroyed the little thing you built!]] I have also destroyed that little bit, of course, Mr President, because it has been so, and all the proposals we have made in the last year have been constantly criticised and not helped. In view of this, I would ask you to discuss the draft discharge law and to adopt it with your votes in favour at the end. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-20-8	Thank you very much. It's time for the lead speaker of Jobbik. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-9	Mr President, Dear House, One always prepares a closing debate with a little illusion, because if you want to, basically, the different pages can move in the dimension of facts and numbers. Then every year Lajos Szűcs comes before me, who, by the way, have the facts and figures, but sometimes in a strange interpretation, but many times the Bolshevik style mixes with neoliberal cruelty. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is the DK-Jobbik coalition!]] That's my problem with the government's entire economic policy. We could have high-quality discussions about this here, but not with three or four production reports of different styles. The fact is that we are talking about these numbers, of course, but I am not having any illusions, my fellow Member. What I see is that, on the one hand, the government is trying to paint very beautiful the big picture, which, by the way, shows a slightly more nuanced picture if we do deep drillings and, on the other hand, the neoliberal cruelty that has long characterised the economic policy of Fidesz is here with us. For example, none of my pro-government fellow Members said a word about you talking about the explosion of real wages, more jobs during the budget period under discussion, but let's say not that, in the case of average or minimum wage and small pensioners, enforcement bans, the 33 percent and 50 percent bans could continue smoothly during the most difficult crisis period. By moving these people in a very difficult situation, with relatively narrow budgetary resources, they could have been put in a stable position in the middle of the crisis period. It would have been a few tens of billions of forints, a lower amount than the renovation work paid for in your Castle, but the settlement of the fates of tens of thousands of people has failed, because in your cruel world image these people cannot fit in, they do not belong to the social group to whom they wish to favour. That's all I wanted to say in my introduction. What we see is that we can't be incorrect. In a crisis caused by a coronal virus epidemic, it was not possible to expect the economic growth, the indicators that the government had planned. I think we should be fair about this, so let's not talk about what couldn't have happened today because of the Covid situation. So obviously, I will not be waiting for an exploding increase in GDP for the period when the epidemic hit, and I will treat it with the same reservations, as I said yesterday, with the government's claims when it finds a quarter where there were seventeen percent of GDP growth. The thing is, if we look at the previous year, we look at the current year, we see that Hungary has been able to produce 1 percent economic growth in both years, based on the data before Covid. Let's not underestimate this, either, in a time of crisis, but let's not beat ourselves to a tenth percent, because we all know that's not true. You know it, I know it. [[9.30]] By the way, ask Teacher Mellar, here is someone who has run a statistical office, who will be able to tell you that if we weigh these figures, then after a quick fall, there has been a lucky recovery period, and once again, in addition to a neoliberal cruel attitude, where the benefits are offered to lucky beneficiary social groups, and they hope that this will come down to other, not so lucky, social groups. This has never happened anywhere in the world. It shows the image of a textbook and I think very wrong direction of social and economic policy, and Fidesz has been bathing in it for 11 years, and once again, combined with a Bolshevik production reporting style. And we can see that, of course, you can talk about deficit figures, but the Covid situation has upset the basic formula. So I would rather talk about what was within the scope of the government, because the right attitude is to look at what the government could have done in this very difficult situation and what it did or did not do. What we see here is that, in setting up the protection funds for the epidemic, three of the extraordinary funds were quickly mapped by the government, by the way, correctly, with amounts over 600 billion and over 1300 billion. However, we also see that the transfers were made by government decisions that were not necessarily traceable, let alone to Hungarian citizens, but also, where appropriate, opposition representatives, and the closing statement does not show what the government spent nearly HUF 1000 billion on in the reserve of protection against the epidemic. What we see is that the code signals of government decisions are nicely introduced in a three-page document, and then behind the code signals, where, say, there is support for a zoom or digital education room, where there are different educational tools, but for example, I am deeply surprised that neither the SAO nor the government speaks a word, let's say, about the acquisition of a respirator, which is a very serious item of over 100 billion. I'm not saying it wasn't necessary, and I'm empathetic about the panic that's been going on in government circles. At the time when you had to get a ventilator, it seemed that there were few on the market, but it was possible to look at at at least how effective it was, how priced it was, what companies were involved in it, who benefited from this whole process. But you have completely politely and diplomatically waived this trial and investigation, not to mention the purchase of stamps; I will come back to that later. A friendly 42 billion were also struck there, so that there would be no illegal state aid, and they tried to find him a strap. I would very much not be in the position of Péter Benõ Banai, because it is an excellent expert, I think the government, perhaps you can say, most prepared secretary of state, would not want to harm him, because if I commend him here, it is certain that good or positive things do not come from him, but when he has to explain 42 billion dollars in stamp collections, they can be sweaty moments. I am very sorry that you have been put in such a position, because this creative fiscal policy that the Government of Hungary is pursuing is an amazing driving game. At the same time, we see that if we look at extraordinary government measures or the expenditure of the economic security fund, we find the epidemics here during the period concerned, and that is absolutely good. At the same time, we find such ones as the support of the Hungarian Tennis Association. Dear fellow Members, it is possible to support the Hungarian Tennis Federation, it has an appropriate budget line, or it has an appropriate methodology, it is certainly not that we support it from the extraordinary or from the epidemiological fund. In the same way, the Syrian Orthodox Church's programs were supported by the Government of Hungary with this big hat. Somebody explain to me why this couldn't have been done in a different way. In fact, if they touch corner numbers in the budget, they'll call every decent parliament at a time like this and submit an amendment to the budget. If we touch corner numbers, we change the budget, Members come in, they vote on it. In your current position, which will continue for another six months, there would have been no problem with this amending budget. You simply saved what would be the basics of a democracy. But let's move on to what else they've spent. One of my favourites is the year of freedom 30 years ago, as if there had been a complete change of regime in Hungary, as it was not, and it was now considered important to support this series of events during this difficult period, and let us not talk about the programmes of the Handball Association. So there is a mix of different genres, total confusion and cataclysms in the spending of these funds. And from the protection of the economy, please also explain to me how the payment of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line itself, and how the subsequent increase of the railway line, is related to the disease control and the emergency response. There is an investment that is the subject of a very serious debate on the opposition side, including between the government side But what we see is that once it is repaid in any way, it will also be measured in hundreds of years, and that incredibly irresponsible lending and borrowing policy, which we are now looking at for many times, is something that destroys national sovereignty quite harshly. You want to hire a huge megaloan, oriental for Budapest-Belgrád, about the Fudan University. I always supported you when you criticized the recruitment of the former IMF loan. At that price, a huge wealth worth about 3,500 billion was not good for the budget. We have now come to the conclusion that in recent months there has been a two-day term, when Hungary was in debt in the form of a currency loan in half of this magnitude in a few hours. And if we add these large international loans, let's say the loan agreement behind Paks, then we will see that you have owed Hungary more than much of the IMF loan volume. Then either do not criticize the previous borrowing policy because they are doing the same thing, they will only milk it once more, or they will change their strategy because it will not be credible. In the same way, we find genre problems from this huge hat, from economic protection, from extraordinary government measures, which again call for an explanation. Why the reconstruction of the Buda Castle, the national Hausmann plan from here, why so, why solve it in this way, why in the middle of a crisis? You're talking about different indicators and popping up. At the same time, we saw in our country that if a family lived in the west of Győr-Moson-Sopron County, and one of its members worked at home, and the other in Austria, the cook working in a restaurant in the vicinity of Vienna may have been at home during the closing period, he could get 90 percent of his salary, just so that when it was time to start again, he could have the workforce and go and start again. It's been true for months, otherwise I'll give you a concrete example, not just the phenomenon. The other family member, who worked in Hungary, had to solve his life essentially without charge, and he was lucky to have his work left at the end, but the failure to replace the lost wages, which was the subject of a lot of discussions here, was overwhelmingly depressing these families. Hungary's Government was able to provide measurable wage replacements for 5 percent of Hungarian jobs, while not to say the European average, because we would sink in shame. The fact is that there was a promise of support for the replacement of lost wages that you, Secretary of State, did in November, and in February, there was one who did not have this replacement amount in his account. The fact is that this program was microscopic, it was very, very erratic, and it took months to implement it. That is why we say that they should perhaps have been the focus of the reconstruction of the Buda Castle or the recapitalisation of the Budapest-Belgrád investment. When reality comes to light, one of our favourite data comes across, and this is that for 42 billion forints, the state purchased a stamp collection for economic protection expenses. Stamp collection, do you understand? ! So let's just stop here for a second. I understand that there shouldn't be any illegal state aid, so let's change the name of the girl, but it's still quite amazing that we're getting a government leader, a minister, after which the minister leaves as usual, even though I believe he should be here, even if he's an excellent professional. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Working.]] There's always, of course, another program that justifies leaving. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's a government meeting.]] The government meeting, of course, was the same last year, and it was the same before last year, not the budgetary and closing disputes with the ministerial presence, but someone could have explained this 42 billion HUF stamp purchase. Obviously, you can't stand up and tell us that there's no forbidden support, so let's rename things, but you're going to be so elegantly overlooking it over a hundreds of billion-dollar supply of ventilators, above the fact that spending within the remit of ministers is 2.5 to 4 times the originally envisaged, what was in the budget directive? ! [[9.40]] I'm not saying that all of these things are despicable, I didn't say that; I said that they should at least be subject to investigation. And when a monstre, a thousand-billion-dollar expenditure is being pushed down our throat in a three-page annex with code marks from various government resolutions, I say that this is a very slippery attitude, and I think we should deal with these expenses at a much more serious level. I could go in the direction of examining what kind of public money you have spent on political purposes, if any, on the scale of ten billion, but I think that would be the subject of a barren debate. Let's mention the Mathias Corvinus College. Here we see 14.5 billion in total, which is partly and essentially to the Commentary Foundation. I'm an otherwise practicing Commentary Reader, even in the previous editing period I've read all the songs, and I've read them now. It's a little different now to set the sail, and this workshop sails in a different direction, but otherwise, I'll follow it myself. At the same time, providing a foundation and organisation with virtually net political activity with such a mass of public money is more than a reverse. So more than 10 billion forints for political purposes, at least this is debateable, Mr. Secretary of State. If you can explain this, I'm sure there'll be an explanation I can accept, and there'll be a lot of things I can't explain, but at least let's talk about it. We see that one of the production reports has also looked at expenditure on health care. One of the fake right-wing congressmen talked about it. The fact is that the increase in health expenditure has now been mentioned here on the paper during the crisis. Here they talked about a HUF 900 billion increase in health care. I think that we can correctly talk about a HUF 500 billion increase in the price of the various devices and medical materials purchased unnecessarily, so that is about what really benefited from one of the fronts, not just spent, and then in the warehouse that was purchased. However, the fact is that it is worth looking at the Hungarian health sector's GDP-related expenditure, which, even in the roughest months of the crisis, did not reach the EU average, which, by the way, was 7.1 percent in the last year of peace, in 2019. In Hungary, 5.9 percent of the time spent on this. It can be assumed that during the epidemiological period, the health costs of other EU countries have also increased, so this distance has not only been maintained, but could even increase between average expenditure on health in the EU and Hungarian. What's one of the reasons? One of the very hard reasons why Hungary operates an extremely expensive state is that it is extremely expensive not only for the government but also for the functioning of the entire state apparatus. This is a very, very serious competitive disadvantage. What we see is that we spend about one and a half times more in Hungary on the government and maintaining the upper levels of public administration than, where appropriate, it was more western of us. In the case of a cheaper and more efficient state, it would be possible to reduce taxes by several thousand billion forints, or to make investments that improve competitiveness and productivity, which are sorely lacking. I do not want to court him, again I refer to Tamás Mellar, who made it perfectly clear yesterday that Hungarian productivity indicators are capable of accounting for half of the average EU data. And if we look at the wage differences, we can see that the Government of Hungary is trying to compete according to Viktor Orbán logic. He said in the Arab world, with the intention of seducing investors, that he felt that the labour code was sufficiently flexible and that Hungarian wages were sufficiently low. That's what you want to compete with. However, it is strange that we now claim, together with György Matolcsy, that this outbreak cannot be a point for Hungary, and when a central bank president is sure to go up to the wall, because such a level of government criticism with a government is certain that it is difficult to express without risk, then it is worth considering that this is the way forward and that it is important to proceed. We also see that there are a lot of things that are not mentioned in the statement of reasons, which can be found in the accounts. One of the sections I've always been browsing is the number of unfilled home-care practices, because I'm an economist, but I've been blessed with a strong human vein. So I am not only looking at GDP data, which, in an epidemiological emergency, is moving in the short term even because of the number of increased deaths, and this is not good, but it is not a welfare turnaround for Hungary, but I am always trying to look at a human development index. One of the very important factors of this is the nature of access to healthcare and the fact that I have a family doctor. What we see is that in 2010, Mr Secretary of State, if this was not the case, there were 176 unfilled practices in Hungary. During the period under consideration by this closing account, we can talk about 399 GP practices at the start, and 468 unfilled GP practices later. Since then, the data has deteriorated further, but I'd leave it up to the health politicians, and I'm not. However, the difference is how many Hungarian citizens are unable to receive the highest level of care. I do not dispute that a substitute specialist or a tandem who provides other districts would not want to provide this care at the best and highest level, but the effectiveness of this matter is certainly lower than that of these people in the affected regions. Once again, the various aspects of the pension system have been mentioned by my fake right-wing fellow Member, and the Minister has also mentioned something called the pension premium, which fits in with the one-off budget of the government, which, at the same time, does not result in a pension increase. It is also worth knowing that there is no increase in salary. The thoughts that would move towards settling the level of Hungarian pensions would be at least this close to us. It is quite amazing to examine how many people receive an allowance of less than HUF 100,000 in Hungary, and that the number of people who have to solve a month of less than HUF 150,000 in the case is of a million magnitude. I understand that this is unimaginable to you, and for a Member of Parliament, this is a difficult dimension to grasp, but the continuing poverty experienced by our retired countrymen is more than dramatic. What we see is that you are still not open to our differentiated proposal for a pension increase, the point of which is that in the case of small pensioners, we can make a higher percentage increase and, where appropriate, not raise pensions of half a million by such a high percentage. The current system is completely unfair, synchronized with your neoliberal cruelty. But we want to change that, and we want you to make a difference. The other, in the quiet, sly way, carried through a continuous increase in retirement age. If the Secretary of State examines the statistical data, he will see that the life expectancy of the Hungarian male age group, which is typical of one decade, will be below the time when they will receive a pension with the increase in the retirement age that is now in force in January. This is a terrible message, and the Government of Hungary declares that these men are typically working until they die. In my opinion, a government can't say that, even if demographic indicators are terribly poor, and I can see that it's creaking because of the pension system, and you can't see the solution that can move this in a positive direction. In fact, I told you several times, I recently held a press conference about it, that I would in no way break down the current family support system, or even expand it and make it fairer. But no matter how much money went into family support or family policy, it is now clear that, unfortunately, demographic indicators have remained horrific. Even fertility rates have not been able to climb above 1.55, while the number of women of childbearing age is unfortunately steadily decreasing. So this is a failing area for the Government of Hungary, and perhaps because it unfairly distributes family support resources, it often favours those who are not in need, and very often does not favour those who might need it. Another figure for the pension system: in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, the amount was below 110 thousand forints, which would reach an average pensioner. This is an unsustainable state, and it must be touched, and I do not believe that this can remain so. We also see that when we talk about family support, and I think we should talk about it, because, once again, we want to expand them, to make them more just, and in no way to break them down, I have revealed this many times, my good colleagues too, this can be traced, no one wants to break down family support; but the chemical cruelty that can be achieved here, has created a system of support that can be claimed with a ministerial salary of ten million dollars. On what grounds? Do you need it? He's not in need. However, the person who would wear, say, a CSOK, but doesn't make enough money, will often be driven away by the intermediary bank, because it doesn't prove to be creditworthy. [[9.50]] So he is not driven by the government, not by the law, but by the intermediary bank, who, by the way, was partly justified and partly unnecessarily brought into this system by the Government of Hungary with this faulty law. On the other hand, I would like to see the amount of tax relief that the collective of Hungarian families cannot make use of. We see, in fact, that one third is stuck in this system, simply because the parents concerned do not make enough money to make use of it. To say something that I support from the government's decisions, for example, I liked the introduction of a family contribution allowance. I think it's a positive direction, but I don't think it's enough, because even so, people who make little money still can't use the full amount of support. And we want to support those who work the most, have children, bring home low wages. Don't make any distinctions between children and children. That child can't help it if his parent is a teacher or nurse. Unfortunately, these people can earn very, very little in Hungary now. So the family tax benefit that comes with the child should be the maximum amount for them as well. So we're going to get you to change that and put this family tax relief there. The family allowance amounts to a recurring debate, a budget of 300 billion. I understand that Hungary's government has already inflated half of its value, and by not doubling it, it has saved more than 3000 billion forints in ten years, which could have been spent for other purposes. However, I say that in our better-looking workshops, a family card structure has been developed abroad, which would double the amount of the family allowance, and this card could be used to buy basic food and child-rearing products, and we believe that these would be guaranteed to benefit the child's interests. But I am particularly interested in the opinion of my next colleague, Mr Nacsa Lőrinc, who is a Christian Democrat, how you look forward to a demographic change, when child rearing in Europe is being taxed here the hardest in terms of products. Explain to my fellow Member how 27 percent VAT can be on diapers, bottles and children's clothing. You're talking about family support, I'll say it again as a fake right, because you're not acting like a right-winger, because this huge budget of a few ten billion dollars, which would require a reduction in the VAT on child-rearing articles, hasn't been used in this area for ten years. So, from here on out, what you're hoping for from the demographic shift is credible, is that what you're looking for? You bring in forms of family support and you immediately understand what I'm talking about, which sound good. It's gonna make you feel like a sight bakery to put in the window, sounds great, costs you a very small source, and few people can use it. Minister Varga has just said here how good it is that mothers with four children do not have to expect a payment obligation. I think it's a good thing, too. Only you fooled your own boss, Viktor Orbán, who articulated the original promise so that mothers with three children would no longer have to pay personal income tax. But then the more competent people figured, wow, that would cost a lot of money, narrow it down. [[Péter Benő Banai intervenes.]] That's how it really happened, Mr. Secretary, it could cost five or six times as much; they narrowed it down, and now it's only 30. This applies to our fellow countryman, of whom 15,000 are not working at all, since he is in full-time with many children and fortunately at home and contributes to the survival of the nation by raising children, which is a wonderful thing. But they've narrowed down the number of users to basically pennies for you. Let's see what we're talking about. Double the family allowance on a family card, Mr. Secretary, we can agree that would be about 300 billion forints. Multi-children's mortgage lending in 2019 cost HUF 5.6 billion; not 300 billion, 5.6 billion. Car purchase support is HUF 8 billion; not 300 billion, 8 billion. Student loan subsidies: this volume did not reach half a billion forints, even though the successful family policy was advertised here in Parliament, it did not reach half a billion forints, so the six hundredth is a part of it, as if you touched the family allowance, and it was less than a hundred percent of it than if the tax on child-rearing articles were reduced. So this is how these proposals should be compared, how many people can use it and how much help it is. Again, we're in a demographic disaster situation. You have failed to improve the indicators, you have failed to improve the fertility rate above 1.55, the number of women of childbearing age is falling, the emigration has unfortunately not stopped, you have tried to solve the labour shortage with organised imports of labour, i.e. hundreds of thousands of foreign migrant workers, instead of trying to get inactive people to move away from the possibilities. All in all, therefore, I do not want to push the principle of family policy away. I am in favour of supporting childbearing as much as possible at a higher level. I am also in favour of increasing this amount of support, in proportion to the number of children, if appropriate, but in the same way we should support the childless person who would like to have a child at some point, because he must reach this point, and your neoliberal cruelty here shows that they support only the ideal family structure you have imagined, but that one child, or that child of his, in a unique way and alone, who, say, wants to have a family, or that child without children, is no longer supported, even though it would be necessary. A lot of things could not be talked about in the absence of time, such as the effects of conscious forint weakening, the statistical lies behind real claims. All in all, I wish you to face these facts, numbers, dare to engage in an honest discussion, and finally let go of the Bolshevik style with which you are beautifully trying to paint what is at least nuanced in a production report style. As you have seen in my speech, there are points that we support, so we have plenty to discuss constructively, but in order to do so, your neoliberal cruelty must be released, and all members of all Hungarian social groups must finally be focused, so we must develop a policy of support. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-10-20-10	Thank you very much. Now, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Madam Secretary! Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! We've heard all kinds of things from my better fellow Member here, but what's the closing bill about? What's this bill we're discussing? It is about the government's use of budgetary resources in accordance with the Finance Act and Hungarian legislation in the previous year. There is an independent organisation, the State Audit Office. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] to comment on this and to make findings. The findings clearly state that the Hungarian Government has implemented the budget in full compliance with the legislation, while respecting the Parliament's decision on the budget law. That is what the closing act is about, although it has not been possible for my fellow opposition Member to talk about it. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Pay more attention!]] I'd just like to say that I'm a big fan and reader of the Commentary magazine, and you may not have had any negative feelings about the page because of your change of direction. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I am not the fake right-winger!]] My fellow Member also said that no one on the opposition side intends to cut family support. It's a bloody lie, Your Honour. The Socialists and the Democratic Coalition have indicated on several occasions how they would cut home creation programmes. Ferenc Gyurcsány called the family tax relief system a perverted redistribution. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, if you came to power, you would cut a large part of your family support. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Support this.]] But let's not talk about that now. We'll talk about this later. Z. Dániel Kárpát again talks about a production report. The production reports, Congressman, are facts. He spoke about facts, Minister, and my fellow Member Lajos Szűcs also spoke about facts. The facts and reality you always report on the production with a noble simplicity, even though the numbers, the economic results that we have heard from the Minister here, are the figures for 2020. The fact is that the year 2020 has been an extremely difficult year, but it shows very well that it is very well photographed and we can very well examine the difference between you and our policy. It can be very well examined whether our economic policy has been successful so far. Despite the fact that the year 2020 was a very difficult year, it is possible to look at how the whole country has performed, was the result and success of economic policy before 2019, and what would have happened if you had been in power in the middle of such a crisis. We can compare it to the period 2008-2009, we can draw the balance exactly. [[10.00]] In the period preceding the pandemic, in 2019 and in the first two months of 2020, until the first wave of the pandemic exploded, an economic record period could be considered in all respects when the investment records fell. It has been a low figure of 3.4 per cent, which has never been seen since the regime change, which in your time was 12 per cent, and, ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian economy has been able to expand to a record of 4.9 per cent at European level, with an average growth of 1.5 per cent to 2 per cent of the European Union. In 2019 Hungarian exports increased by 5.8 percent and imports increased by 7.5 percent. I think that the 2020 discharge law and the year 2020 cannot be examined on their own. We need to look into what happened before, and we need to look into what happened afterwards. The doctor does not determine the patient's condition solely from a single blood test, but the patient's medical history should be looked at and follow-up should also be looked at. I think it is extremely important that we get a full picture of what our year was like in 2020. In 2019 Hungarian exports increased by 5.8 percent and imports increased by 7.5 percent. In addition to the high import content of exports, increased consumption and investment played a role in the former growth, including the positive performance of industry and investments resulting in overcapacity. The external trade balance continued to show a surplus in 2019. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The rapid development up to March 2020 has been achieved in a healthy and balanced structure as well as in debt-free. The government debt fell from above 80% in 2010 to 65.5 per cent by the end of 2019, and the composition of the outstanding debt is much more favourable as it has been able to significantly increase the share of public debt and reduce the ratio of foreign currency debt and foreign debt. In line with this, the foreign exchange ratio fell from 53 per cent at the end of 2011 to 21 per cent, while the foreigner ratio fell from 65 per cent to 34 per cent. This has contributed to a reduction in the country's foreign currency exposure and external vulnerability. We can recall that the Gyurcsány-Bajnai pair, on the other hand, tried to finance the gigantic sovereign debt they created by taking on a huge amount of IMF loans of thousands of billion forints, perhaps one of the worst conditions in the world. This loan was then repaid by the national government well before the deadline in 2013. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, also spoke about the IMF loan. What did the government led by Gyurcsány then spend the IMF loan with László Varju's economic activity and undersecretary of state? To finance public spending and to save 600 billion forints. Klára Dobrev recently said on television that the banks were saved, not the people. This artifact is absolutely correct, we agree with Klára Dobrev, this is a rare moment. You managed to save the banks, and you ignored the people. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: That's not what he said at all.]] These are his words, honourable Member. They spent 600 billion forints on a bank rescue package at the time, because your bank buddies were the most important in that period. The 15 percentage points debt reduction achieved by early 2020 is one of the most significant achievements of EU countries, while many Western and Southern European countries were only able to grow economic growth during that period by further increasing public debt. The year 2019 was therefore characterised by economic growth, record low unemployment rates, record investment rates, significant real wage growth, declining public debt and further reducing the country's vulnerability and foreign exposure. However, in March 2020, the corona virus pandemic brought about this rapid and favourable economic growth, and restrictive measures had to be introduced to slow down the spread of the epidemic, which had a serious impact on the economy in Hungary, Europe and the world. At the same time, the explosion of the pandemic and the subsequent global recession hit Hungary in a much healthier, stronger and more resilient situation compared to the economic crisis in 2008-2009. There was a budget reserve, and Hungarian households had savings, and most importantly, by eliminating foreign currency loans, people were not exposed to foreign banks as debt slaves, as in your day. Let's see what a left-wing government would have done during the Crown Virus crisis if they had been in power. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's fiction!]] This is not a world of fiction, honourable Member, but a real experience, because we have seen crisis management from the left before. During a crisis, the first thing on the left is always the means of austerity. Of course, this restriction does not apply to everyone, only Hungarian families, Hungarian workers, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and Hungarian pensioners. However, left-wing austerity policy never applies to foreign banks, never to global capital, never to multinationals and left-wing oligarchs, Red Barons. However, the public sector workers would be deprived of a month's salary, as they had done before. They would take away a monthly pension from Hungarian pensioners, as they did before. The Hungarian families would take away the family tax relief, the third year child, the ged extra, and they would make childbearing equal to the commitment of poverty, as they had done before. Based on the crisis, they would increase labour taxes, further increase the lowest tax rate on personal income tax, and raise corporate tax, as they have done before, and as they have now described in their programmes. Instead of preserving and protecting jobs on the basis of the crisis, they would lead back to aid policy by extending unemployment benefits, as they had done before. Family home creation programmes, preferential housing loans, would be immediately abolished and families would be forced into foreign exchange-credit debt slavery, as they had done before. Hundreds of schools would be shut down and thousands of teachers would be on the street, as they had done before. A thousand kilometers of railway lines would be cut off, public assets sold out, state companies of national strategic importance, utilities and airports would be sold to foreign profit-maximising large capital at a price, as they had done before. László Varju said here in Parliament yesterday that the low-cost privatisation of the airport was a very successful privatisation. [[László Varju: Why are you lying, I didn't say that!]] He said it was a successful privatisation. [[László Varju: Mr President, tell him not to lie.]] But to you, honourable Member, not to the Hungarian people.
u2021-10-20-12	Congressman, please, you will have the opportunity to speak and feel free to react. Please allow us to respect each other's position. Thank you.
u2021-10-20-13	On top of that, they would take on a gigantic IMF loan of several thousand billion forints, to maximize the country's foreign currency exposure and external vulnerability, as they had done before. In short, this would have been the left-wing response to the crisis caused by the Crown Virus in 2020. These examples are not fictions, the left has taken all the austerity steps. In 2019, when we discussed the 2020 budget, for which we are now on the final report, we warned you, although you did not listen to the good word, the sober word. You, personally Tamás Mellár, László Varju, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Tamás Harangozó submitted budget amendments to the 2020 budget in which a multiple of the National Defence Fund and the Fund for extraordinary government measures would have been spent. If we accept those budget amendments then we will have zero forints in reserve in March 2020 for the outbreak of the coronal virus epidemic and the pandemic. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, if it had been up to you, there would have been no reserve available to start purchasing protective equipment, for example, to start building an epidemic hospital in Kiskunhalas, so that the various measures in the field of border protection and health care could be taken. If it had been up to you, there would have been a penny without reserve in the country, since we had not yet touched the National Defence Fund in March, we did not touch the reserve for extraordinary government measures, so the National Defence Fund, which was raised in black and white by Parliament, was at the disposal of the Ministry of Finance, so that the government could spend it as wisely as possible in order to protect the safety and health of Hungarian people. That is why I am glad that we did not listen to your austerity and overspending policy in the interests of the left. It is very right that we have not adopted the amendments which would have endangered the security of the country and the total amount placed in the National Security Fund. It is very important that, in the course of crisis management, the Fidesz-KDNP government considered it a priority to protect jobs, to retain family support and home creation tools and to expand, to continue sectoral wage increases, to continue tax reductions, to preserve the value of pensions and to rebuild the 13th month pension. While you have dealt with the crisis with austerity, we have constantly expanded the pension system, the family support system, constantly reduced taxes and kept jobs during the crisis. During the first wave of the epidemic, especially in April, because of the invisible enemy, many factories, industrial facilities, service sectors and businesses had to cease their activities, and tourism in essence ceased. [[10.10]] Although 2020 II. In the fourth quarter of the year, the epidemic has brought back the activity of the economy to an unprecedented extent, as set out in Annex III. a rapid correction was made from the quarter of 2008 and recovery was made in accordance with Annex IV to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. It continued in the quarter, despite the re-introduction of measures limiting the spread of the disease. Industrial production in IV. The volume of production increased in the three months of the quarter compared to the previous year, so that the volume of production increased in the fourth quarter of the year. In the quarter, it was already 2.1 percent higher than the previous year. In 2020 Hungarian GDP decreased by 4.7 percent, while the economies of the EU Member States fell to a much larger extent, on average by 5.9 percent. In this way, Hungary's economic performance exceeded the EU average in 2020. When planning the 2020 budget, no one had ever suspected that the world would be hit by a pandemic and a crisis, and the government was quite rightly counting on a 4% increase in GDP. In order to counterbalance the negative economic impact of the epidemic, the government launched the economic protection action plan in the spring of 2020, which reported unprecedented economic protection measures of around 30% of 2020 GDP. The economic protection action plan included tax reductions, wage subsidies, subsidies to promote credit repayments, improvements and the extension of state guarantee schemes. The objective of the economic protection action plan was to help sectors in difficulty, to protect jobs, to strengthen the situation of families and to support recovery. In the framework of the economic protection action plan, significant resources have flown to the economy, which have helped businesses, households and workers alike. Despite the crisis, the effects of the government's economic protection measures have been felt. Real earnings increased by 6.2 percent in 2020, household consumption expenditure fell by only 1.6 percent, which can be seen as positive in a European comparison. It is also beneficial that, despite the negative effects of the crisis, the investment rate, which has risen to record levels in recent years, has reached an extremely high level of 27 per cent in 2020. Investments were also supported by the fact that 28 thousand apartments were built in 2020 as the strongest performance of the last 11 years, which represents a 34% increase in annual comparison. Public investment has also increased, and the economic security fund created by crisis management has been insured with some HUF 4031 billion, of which nearly HUF 943 billion from intra-budget transfers and payments. In particular, these resources have been provided to support investments in support of economic growth in 2021 and 2022. I deeply condemn the fact that Dániel Z. Carpathian is a 17,9 percent II. This year, he talks about economic growth in the quarter, and it was fortunately so that they had just found a good number. Well, this record-level economic growth, and what we will see again this year, is not luck and no coincidence, honourable Member, this is the result of the right economic policy of the Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses and the government. This was not just the case, and I ask you not to look down on the Hungarian people's work in this respect, because they brought this together - the Hungarian workers, the Hungarian entrepreneurs and the companies here - brought it together, thanks to the proper economic policy of the government, that we can experience such economic growth during this period. And when Professor Mellar says that all this is nothing, this economic growth is barely over the last year, the fact is, honourable Member, that many Western European countries have not yet reached their pre-popular economic level, there are large countries, large Western European countries such as France or the Benelux States or the Nordic States or southern states, which have not yet reached the level where they were before the epidemic. Not only have we now reached this level, but we have also exceeded our economic level before the epidemic. The other defense fund, the Anti-CDC Fund, in which source insurance of HUF 945 billion was achieved. This fund guaranteed that health protection should not be a financial obstacle. The Fund for Disease Aid from the European Union has also been established for health protection. How much money do you think has come from the European Union to the European Union fund for combating the epidemic? As no aid was received last year, unfortunately no payment was made from this fund. This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen; when there is a big problem, we can really rely on ourselves, and we are happy and happy that a strong Hungarian economy has been hit by the crisis, a healthy Hungarian economy has been hit by the crisis, and that the government has been able to implement both health and economic protection through the transfer of adequate funds. The 2020 budget provided a HUF 918 billion higher amount for healthcare than we spent HUF 918 billion more on health in 2020 than we did in 2019. This includes additional expenditure related to health wage increases, a one-off allowance of HUF 500 000 per person, expenditure on combined specialised care, subsidies for medicines and additional resources in connection with an emergency. The 2020 budget provided HUF 348.7 billion more funding for education than the 2019 budget. This involved universities, grants for investment to colleges, foundation grants, support for human services for public education, and the provision of free textbooks and support for Erzsébet children's and youth camps. Pension expenditure increased by HUF 142.5 billion in 2020, and this does not include the retirement of the 13th month pension that will take effect this year, as well as the record high pension premium, which will be paid to all pensioners in a few weeks' time for HUF 80,000. Despite the crisis, the tax reduction policy continued in 2020. Left-wing MEPs have never seen a person in the crisis not raising taxes, but reducing taxes; they go from place to reflex to tax increases. Ferenc Gyurcsány always raises taxes, corporate tax, personal income tax, excise duty and all kinds of taxes that come to their minds during the break of the government meeting are all raised. On the other hand, we continued to reduce taxes in 2020. According to the agreement between the competition sphere and the government in 2016, the employer's public burden on labour was continuously reduced by 11.5 percentage points between 2016 and July 2020. In July 2020, the government further reduced the rate of social contribution tax by another 2 percentage points, at the end of the first wave and at the beginning of the second wave, in July 2020, further reduced the rate of social contribution tax in order to protect jobs, which is now only 15.5 percent. Let us not forget that this figure was 27 per cent in 2016 and that under the left-wing Gyurcsány government, employers had to pay 32 per cent for each employee. Even László Varju, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, can see that the tax burden of 32 is much higher than the tax burden of 15.5 percent, which we are experiencing at the moment. In the case of corporate tax, the most significant change in recent years was that on 1 January 2017, the corporate tax rate was reduced to 9 per cent, so companies operating in Hungary could pay the most favourable rates in the European Union. By significantly simplifying the small business tax and reducing the tax rate, the tax system has created an even more favourable tax environment for small and medium-sized enterprises capable of growth from 2017. From 1 January 2021, the small company tax also decreased further to 11 per cent. A reduced VAT rate of 5 per cent has been introduced from 2020 on the sale of residential property built in so-called rust zones, which does not exceed 150 sq m of useful floor space; and a 5% tax rate has been set for food and drink traffic sold to or by home delivery during the epidemic in order to mitigate the negative effects of the epidemic on hosts. The tourism development contribution was not paid as from 1 March 2020. In particular, it is worth pointing out that last year, despite the crisis, the amount of family support has not decreased, and that the unique family protection action plan and family support system across Europe has been further expanded. Accordingly, after 2019, we can say in 2020 that we have managed to achieve more support than ever for families with children and for those with children. In 2020, compared to 2010, when HUF 960 billion was spent on family support, the amount of support for families increased by more than three times. At the beginning of next year, families raising children can get their personal income tax paid in 2021 back up to the average wage level. I think that this is also a historic step, a unique step, a courageous step that will further improve the situation of families raising children, because we want to make it worthwhile not only in a spiritual, spiritual, moral sense, but also in a material sense. [[10.20]] In comparison: during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, family formation and childbearing were almost equal to the commitment of poverty. There were simply no family support tools that are now natural for all families raising children in Hungary. Young people were not given any help to start their own lives, to create homes, to start a family, to have children, but to introduce tuition fees, they took away the third year child, there was no child extra, and the family tax relief was only HUF 4,000 for the third child. Overall, Hungary's economic policy was largely negatively influenced by the pandemic in 2020 after the 2019 record year, but its economic policy, based on the performance, stability and dynamic growth of recent years, enabled the country to quickly overcome the crisis and return to growth. Hungary is today one of the few countries in the European Union that has already achieved its economic performance before the epidemic. Only eight other EU Member States out of 27 were able to do this. This proves that Hungary has responded adequately and in line with current challenges to the economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. According to the calculations, we have every reason to expect positive expectations, as there is a record high economic growth of between 7 and 7.5 percent in 2021. The labour market has also been able to set a new record in 2021, as there have never been as many people in Hungary since the change of regime as there is now when the number of people employed exceeded 4.7 million and the number of unemployed has never been as low as it is now. By comparison: During the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány, there were 915 thousand fewer people working in Hungary. It is necessary to go further along this path, to continue economic policy based on tax cuts, real wage increases, economic growth, debt reduction, employment and stability. A whole new chapter will soon be opened in the life of the Hungarian people, when the minimum wage can rise to HUF 200,000, which may be higher than the average Hungarian wage in Ferenc Gyurcsány's time, and the 13th month's pension will be fully restored, our senior countrymen will receive a record pension premium, the sja-freeness of young people under the age of 25 will be achieved, and families raising children, as I have already said, will be able to get their paid back. But we have plenty to lose. These results must be protected and these results may be lost. The policy of austerity and tax increases can return very easily by the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány. We can see in the left-wing agenda that the tax increase, the reduction of family support, the reduction of home-building programmes and aid-based policy would go back to the front, and we do not want that, so we must protect the progress that has been made so far, and we must continue to pursue successful economic policy. The KDNP fraction will therefore support the 2020 accounts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-20-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-10-20-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Listening to Lőrinc Nacsa's keynote speech, we can be sure that he will not be invited to present the left-wing program. I've heard so many vegetables in a very short time. But my fellow Member also said that we should stick to the facts in the accounts, and I fully agree with you, Mr President. When we are discussing closing accounts, what we really need to look at is how the government has implemented the budget adopted by Parliament. This is the purpose of the occupation today, with or instead of all kinds of flash-forwards. For the year 2020 the answer is very simple, honourable Member: it does not; because the implementation figures submitted are not at all similar to those adopted by the Parliament in the summer of 2019. Fidesz MEPs voted in favour of the central budget for 2020 in the summer of 19 which the government planned with a 4 per cent economic growth, a 1 per cent deficit in the budget, a further 67% reduction in the public debt-to-GDP ratio by the end of the year, and 2.8 per cent inflation, while the figures ahead show the following. The economy would not have grown, but it had decreased by 4.7 percent, and the government deficit was more than 8 percent in excess of the original plan, and at the end of the year the Hungarian government debt-to-GDP ratio was above 77 percent; the impact of the unbroken debt reduction of the last eight years disappeared in one year, and, I add, was also above 80 percent. Annual inflation increased by 0.5 percent, thus 3.3; and it is important to the people that the Hungarian currency has lost much of its value. In 2020, for 1 euro, HUF 26-27 was more than HUF 351 in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, we know that at this point, the government claims that in 2020 there was a special year in the world with Covid, restrictive measures, cuts, increasing poverty and economic downturns, and that there was therefore a need to deviate from the budget adopted. Then let's get this straight so there's no misunderstanding. We do not have a problem with the fact that, in a sudden crisis year, the government deviates from previously adopted plans. This can normally be done if the amendments are made by a government in the interests of the people and serve them in order to alleviate the crisis in order to strengthen health, education and extend the social network, and possibly involve the Hungarian Parliament in this. The Orbán government could have done the same. But Fidesz isn't like that. They insisted on their budget based on an unjust and anti-future redistribution. We proposed a transfer of more than HUF 1000 billion to increase pensions, social spending, health and education budgets, but they said no to our proposals to help people. However, the Fidesz and the Orbán government have shown their social insensitiveness during this period as well. They have a narrow economic elite, which some of their power relies on Mészáros, Tiborcz, Garancsi, and it could be a long line, and the taxpayers' money was transferred more or more in their interest. Let us remember what happened in 2020! There was a devastating epidemic and the world was transformed. Europe and even governments around the world have taken all health, social and economic measures to save the lives of as many people as possible until the vaccine is developed; do not let companies go bankrupt and reduce mass unemployment. And what did the Fidesz government do? He introduced a special legal order, changed the budget to suit his wishes, and screwed up health control and disease management. In the first wave, strict measures were introduced, with the result that the economy almost shut down. Hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs, and hundreds of thousands of people lost their income. Fires, company failures, salary cuts and the consequences of the slowdown of the international economy had not yet arrived. At the end of the first wave, there was a sharp shift in politics, and since then the economy has almost an exclusive priority. Based on the possibility of vaccination, the Fidesz government considers defence to be solely a civil responsibility and has done nothing more. He did not perform mass testing, nor rigorous contact research, nor did he give incentives, for example, with 100 percent sick pay or 80% wage support, as other governments did to prevent the spread of the virus. As a result, more than 30,000 of our countrymen have been victims of this murderous virus, three times as many as in neighbouring Austria. Overall, the pandemic has also reduced the performance of the economy by 4.7 percent, but it is even more serious that it has expanded and increased the social tension points that were present without the pandemic. Social inequalities have continued to increase, social mobility has been completely reduced, increasing poverty and, in particular, the worsening extreme poverty has hit a number of citizens much better. The Fidesz government has demonstrated its social insensitiveness during the crisis, and it has in fact just demonstrated its lack of interest in families living in poverty for years or in crisis situations. The minimum pension, social assistance, unemployment benefit, family allowance, the child has not changed by one forint, nor have families in need or pensioners received any additions. Public negligence must have been felt by tens of thousands of people when they lost their jobs, their wages, and often their housing. The government did nothing for people and families in crisis situations, while the budget for 2020 was called the family budget. However, the tasks related to government communication and consultation were twice as much as planned, while there was no need to pay a pension premium for which HUF 20 billion was foreseen. You could just say that basically they spent money on propaganda for pensioners. [[10.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, This wasn't supposed to happen. The Fidesz government had everything they needed for a successful and successful crisis management, but they didn't take it. In the spring of 2020, the government established the Anti-CDC Fund with a communication password for the largest crisis management of all time, with HUF 633 billion and HUF 1346 billion for the Economic Protection Fund. The nearly HUF 2000 billion would indeed have been a huge source of public finances, but most of this was not a real surplus, but a budgetary transfer. According to official communication at the end of the year, he spent more than HUF 5400 billion on protecting the economy, but the facts indicate otherwise. The government's actions during the emergency period and transfers of budget appropriations show that, even during this period, it has contributed more resources to the objectives that cannot be linked to the epidemic, such as cutting-edge sport, stadium building and maintenance, government prestige investments, the provision of support to churches in accordance with the Prime Minister's priority than the real action against the epidemic. And that is your shame, ladies and gentlemen, although, if I look around, I do not know who I am saying this to; there is not a single fidesz in this Chamber to forgive, Mr Secretary of State, but I think you are neither a Member nor you are, whatever. Ladies and gentlemen, As far as the numbers in the accounts before us are concerned, the essence of Fidesz's antihuman and power-hungry government can be accurately read. More and more tax revenues are falling in proportion to education, social territory, and more are going to government waterheads, propaganda and prestige investments. Education, health and social security for welfare functions in 2019 accounted for 56.2 percent of public finances, which decreased to 54.4 percent in 2020, which has been a trend for many years. Within public finances, spending on educational activities and services amounted to 10.2 percent of expenditure, after 10.8 in 2019 or 11.6 percent in the 18th. In the field of health, public expenditure on the provision of benefits and the functioning of the institutions has increased over many years, as a result of the Covid epidemic and the increase in medical wages: in 2020, it represented 10.9 per cent after 9.1 per year. However, it is a fact that this means only reaching the 2018 value, which was already 10.8 percent at the time. The amounts spent on social security and welfare functions accounted for only 23,8 percent of the expenditure, which is a significant fall from 2019, at that time it was 27.5 percent. 28,5 percent in 2018. The largest share of the function group was the amount spent on retirement benefits by 14 percent, which also decreased significantly compared to 2019 and was 16.6% at the time. Overall, the economic area represented 20.7 percent of expenditure after 18,5 in 2019, which is constantly rising in line with the trend of previous years. The 18 was significantly increased from 17.4 percent. In this type of expenditure, the proportion of the amounts allocated to the transport and telecommunications activities and services group is the most significant: 9.1 percent. Expenditure on environmental protection reached only 1.6 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, In a crisis caused by an epidemic, a normal government wants to defeat the common enemy, the virus, and therefore supports local authorities in their defense. Compared to this, Fidesz did not grant any support, it drew money straight from the municipalities and provided support to almost only government-led municipalities. In 2020, therefore, the budget, in particular due to individual government decisions, made a clear distinction between the support of pro-government and opposition-led settlements established after the 2019 municipal elections. As long as the pro-government has received multiple grants, whether they are operating grants, development or other investments, it is almost impossible to find a city with opposition leadership among hundreds of items, not to mention large investments and propaganda expenditures. Ladies and gentlemen, Let no one in the government say that there was no money to increase the job search time or the amount. No one is to say that there was no money for 100 percent sick money or even for the provision of laptops or tablets to students who were forced into online education, when there was money for the following: Hausmann Plan, the renovation of the Buda Castle, the moving of ministries to the Castle, and the world-famous Castle Headquarters HUF 120 billion. With HUF 131 billion in cash for the Tihanyi Foundation, providing Mathias Corvinus Collegium, for the project Liget Budapest, HUF 30 billion for government propaganda, posters, advertisements HUF 48 billion, HUF 81 billion for Budapest-Belgrád railway, HUF 71.5 billion for Eximbank Zrt., which finances the investments of the pro-government oligarchs. The development of unique sports facilities, the development of unique sports facilities... in the year when 30,000 of our countrymen died due to a coronal virus epidemic, and on the brink of collapse, or God knows, the Hungarian health system may have been in the middle of it, because it has been hermetically closed, and even representatives have not been allowed to see what the real state is in hospitals; of course, there are reports of it, and they will be published once, to develop sports facilities, HUF 73.4 billion. I look at my fellow Member, Nacsa, if I remember correctly, in the closing account by the end of the same year, but perhaps by the middle of the year the hospitals were building debts of HUF 30 billion, and for 73 billion, sports facilities were built in the year of the crisis! Well, tell me, is that a sane thing to do, Congressman? ! This was all more important to you than the health of people, the education of our children, the decent retirement of the elderly or the support of the fallen. And yes, when we asked them to give money to the pensioners, when they were in trouble, they were here, so I listed hundreds of billions of forints for all kinds of madness: 120 billion for moving to the castle. And not one or two years from now, but you should have held hands and helped when you were really in trouble, and, by the way, maybe people were not just financially, but mentally panicked, they should have been able to count on their government. You can also see that the churches have not been saved by the state. Instead of the planned 73 billion, 229 billion had access to religious activity, i.e. three times the planned amount. In 2020, more than ever, 621 billion forints were strapped by the government in the context of sport, and this does not even include Tao subsidies, which instead of the state budget, are being used by sports organisations. The sum of this is also a record, HUF 176 billion, or HUF 797 billion in public money in a single year. Not to restart the economy, not to people's health, not to health, not to sports, this is the year of crisis! Ladies and gentlemen, What is to be read from a budget in the middle of an epidemic? It means that even at the time of the pandemic, the EU average money was not available for health care. In 2020, health expenditures increased due to the coronal virus epidemic and increased protection, more wages were paid and no savings were made in the procurement of assets. Only about 300 billion were spent on unnecessary ventilators, and tens of billions were spent on Chinese vaccines still in storage. However, the expenditure on Hungarian health is still below the EU average in proportion to GDP. Last year, 5.9 percent of GDP went to this goal after 4 percent in 2019, but we are still very far from the EU average for the last year of peace: in 2019 it was 7.1 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, it turned out that, according to Eurostat, Viktor Orbán has the most expensive government in Europe. At the beginning of March, Eurostat updated the Member States' budget figures for the 19th year, which shows that Hungary has the most expensive government. [[10.40]] On average, the EU 27 spends 5.8 per cent of GDP on bureaucracy, officially speaking, on general community services, which is 8.2 per cent at the same time. Finland spent a similar high figure, 7.9 percent, while Austria considered 5.7 as a laboratory, and in the V4 countries which increasingly devolved from us, the state only spends 4-5 percent of gross domestic product on itself. There is no law enforcement or defence in community services. In the latter, we were slightly below the EU average by 1 percent of GDP, but the 2 percent spent on law enforcement did not deviate from the average in 2020. They're working badly, but at least this Orbán government is expensive. Face toaster! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll continue the line. While the epidemic resulted in a series of human tragedies, and due to the failed economic crisis management, hundreds of thousands were exposed without backup and care, the Government of Viktor Orbán did not pity our tax forints for propaganda. The National Communications Office under Antal Rogán spent nearly 26 billion in the second quarter of 2020, 18 billion in the third quarter and 17.8 billion in the last quarter of 20. In the last quarter of 2020, more than half of the total spending was spent, nearly HUF 10 billion for the distribution of government panels. In the document we see another three billion-dollar items: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs led by Péter Szijjártó spent 1.8 billion on communication, 1.9 billion on advertising sovereign debt, and 1 billion forints on the communication of the hunting exhibition during the crisis. Due to the economic downturn caused by the Covid epidemic, the planned budget deficit increased by HUF 5000 billion, which also raised public debt to 77.2 percent. In 2020, a significant amount of funds were raised in the foreign market, amounting to HUF 2300 billion, and international foreign exchange bonds were issued worth EUR 6 billion, i.e. more than HUF 2100 billion, including the issuance of Hungary's first international green bond. In addition, so-called samurai bonds denominated in Japanese yen were issued in the amount of 62.7 billion yen, i.e. HUF 180 billion. A former Minister for Economic Affairs, whom the Prime Minister has already called his right-hand man, said earlier that debt in foreign currency has harmful and extraordinary disadvantages. So what do you think of that now? Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, we can see from the 2020 final report that government propaganda, prestige investments, the Budapest-Belgrád railway, the MCC Foundation, was not spared public money from the Chinese loan. This was done at the peak of the Covid epidemic, instead of supporting the loss of their jobs, either by extending the job search support or by creating free testing opportunities. Instead, support for social expenditure has decreased proportionately, with significantly fewer functions than pensions or education in its proportions. At the same time, despite the fact that the budget has collected more taxes from the Hungarian population and businesses, education and the social sphere are not only underfunded, but it is also slowly becoming more and more difficult to maintain everyday operation, it operates from such a scarce source, while the increase in medical wages did not mean an enormous increase in resources in health care, but only the value of 2018. If, finally, we wanted to sum up what I said, perhaps a little more dry, but I think it was important that the figures were said once, so that the facts could be debated, we can perfectly see that every proposal we made in the time of the crisis, as an opposition individually, the Hungarian Socialist Party, other opposition groups and together, would have been covered for each of them. There would have been funding for 100 per cent of the sick money for the covids; there would have been cover for the 80 per cent pay supplement; there would have been cover for the increase in the unemployment allowance and the extension of the duration of a period where, by the way, no more than three months, but now beyond the year, people would not find a new job for themselves; there would have been coverage for wage increases in the health and education areas. There would have been money, but you spent it on sports, supporting oligarchs, moving to Castle, building railroads, and so on. No wonder Minister of Finance Mihály Varga in his expo, I can't even show a percentage, but let's just say that in most of his expo he didn't talk about the 2020 accounts, but the 21st, the 22nd might have discussed the nice new future in 2222 and he told us and comforted us that everything would be fine and good now. I'm not surprised at that. Of course, they can say that it was a crisis, and they can say that it was not only the Hungarian government that we were in a difficult situation. That's true, too. But what decision you have made, what restrictions you have made, or just how important it is, has not been taken by the people, and it is your responsibility on the one hand. On the other hand, I think that all pro-government Members and members of the government should immediately forget to point back to the difficult fate of the crisis again. In August 2020, on a yacht called Lady MRD, you can go on foaming, helicoptering, walking with luxury jets, nannying... Dear fellow Members, The government that showed this to society in the year of the crisis said that you may be ruined, you may be unemployed, but I am moving to the Castle, I am on the yacht called Lady MRD, the billionaire stuffed by the Hungarian government, I don't know what they said. Do I spend 60 million a day on a chartered yacht and relax the tiresome work of 300 billion-dollar ventilation? Is that what they said to people? Well, then, don't say what a difficult time this has been. In people's pockets, the knife opens when you talk about the government being in a difficult situation, while you see that its members and its leaders, the oligarch billionaires all around them, are raging public money in front of the people! Thank you so much for listening. Of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not vote in favour of this closing statement.
u2021-10-20-16	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-10-20-17	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I think you will not be surprised that if we continue in a similar tone, perhaps not even the Secretary of State. I mean, everything you've done over the last year, you're here to account for it. The facts here show that everything they spent money on could have done a lot more for the country. Let's look at the structure in which this is worth reviewing. First, I would like to talk about the appropriations that were planned and, compared to the significantly different budgetary processes, and then why your economic policy is harmful to Hungary, thirdly, let us look at the 2020 processes and public finances in particular, if we are talking about closing accounts, the specific expenditures and the style in which it takes place. Perhaps it is worth taking a little international look at how this happened compared to other countries. Before I begin, I do not want to miss a few thoughts and a little response to what either the Minister or the President of the State Audit Office have said. The failure to comply with its statutory obligation to reduce the sovereign debt indicator can also be waived in this situation. Here, the President of the State Audit Office has long explained why this can be done. In itself, we are fundamentally in agreement. However, not by what this was spent on, and, as you have just heard from my fellow Member, ignoring that this was not in the interests of the people, that this was ignored by the Fiscal Council and the State Audit Office and, by the way, put its seal on it, I think it is unacceptable. [[10.50]] This is well demonstrated by the conduct of the President of the State Audit Office, and he explains in advance, because he knows precisely that what he did in this framework was not right. Contrary to Minister, I can say that if he also referred to the fact that he was representatives of the constituency, that I, as an MEP in Újpest, saw the way in which he had been taken from the municipality, in which way he was prevented from operating. We are talking about more than HUF 4 billion in Újpest, angelland, and this is how much damage they have done to the two districts, while they know that in other countries they have not been taken away from the municipalities, but have been helped. Thirdly, I will also try to respond to the thoughts of Mr.Lőrinc Nacs, taking into account Mr. President's warnings. I think it was a level of flooding that I think we can safely ignore. You have to treat Fake as news when you keep telling lies [[Nacsa Lawrence laughs.]] And from here on out, I don't think it's interesting, and it's not important to respond to, you don't have to deal with it. However, I would like to express my intention, as is the case here with my right-wing colleague, Daniel Z. Carpathian, my opposition colleague, to agree that when he says that this accounts have been taken down to the level of a production report, there is a great deal of truth in this, and while ignoring what kind of debate has actually been developed between the governing parties and their institutions regarding the budget and the measures to be taken. I am thinking, first of all, about the debate that the President of the National Bank of Hungary and the Minister of Finance have held over the past period. Of course, we can have different perceptions of what they think is right when the President of the Hungarian National Bank criticizes fiscal decisions, but I would add that while he criticizes, while carrying out a monetary printing called a balance sheet expansion of more than HUF 4,000 billion, he has been handed over to the banks, and by the way, he has financed expenditure on the budget which is, in large part, otherwise meaningless and now proven to be useless in terms of closing accounts, from the country's point of view, and from the point of view of the people and the Hungarian people. Let us now look at a few more things, in view of the fact that, according to Fidesz's multi-annual practice, the country's central budget is typically already voted in Parliament in the middle of the previous year. The main reason for this is that we regularly discuss this with Mr State Secretary, so that foresight and the rest can take place. Here, all the arguments they had previously made, even if they had made changes to this budget, have been spectacularly ruined. I would like to discuss this in detail. The government has launched a large-scale, propaganda-stricken economic defense program. Let us add that all that happened here was that, since the number of corners of the budget had not changed, the main number, the total amount, had not changed, an internal redeployment had been carried out, trying to deal with the existing situation. In itself, I have to say that the Orbán government's actions have been hasty, unstructured, and its consequences have been achieved in the country, not only by businesses, and not only by job redundancies, but also by the death of more than 30,000 of our countrymen, because neither economic policy nor health policy decisions have been adequate in this respect. There will be no EU sanctions for socio-economic processes due to a budget deficit of more than 3% in the middle of the pandemic. No one can be condemned for this alone, I think it is right in this respect. However, the awareness that you have observed by the end of 2020 and, by the way, in the last months, you have made a spending that has essentially caught up with and even exceeded the European average, I think it is certainly remarkable and I would like to mention this in particular, which is about your spending in December. For recent years, let us also mention in part the positive developments that were reflected in the draft budget for 2020 because of the favourable international conditions that had already taken place in the preparation of this. The Hungarian economy was helped by the low international interest rates, then the raw material prices did not run away, the country had a high share of EU funds, German large investments were created, so in this respect, I think it was positive in any case in the external circumstances. Therefore, it is indeed a very big question of how it was possible to manage so badly in the meantime. So let's go into the details and look at some of the facts that I referred to earlier that we need to discuss. With regard to growth and budgetary developments which differ significantly from appropriations, the Hungarian macroeconomic data typically differed sharply from the projected and projected processes in 2020. Only by highlighting growth and the general government deficit, GDP decreased by 4.7 percent in 2020 rather than by 4 percent, and the cash flow deficit increased by 13 times instead of the projected HUF 359 billion, reaching HUF 4716 billion. That's not surprising. About three quarters of the year before the Covid crisis, the number of budgets adopted in the summer of 2019 was swept away. In this case, like the rest of the world, the budget adopted at the end of 2019 would not have been much more justified. The fact that there is a significant difference is therefore understandable. However, it is no longer the fact that, although the 2020 budget was formally amended in the summer, by establishing the Anti-CDC Fund and the Economic Fund, the overall budget was not changed, so the modified budget did not actually reflect any real government expectations that the government could, in essence, make a completely arbitrary decision. It is worth mentioning that, while the Ministry of Finance indicated a gradual decline and a general government deficit as early as March 2020, the MNB spoke of growth even in the summer of 2020. What I'm referring to is that the point of the conflict is that you have not reached agreement, you have dragged the government back and forth, and 10 million people have had their share. Secondly, already before 2020, the Hungarian economy was on a pro-cyclical, balancing path. According to the closing bill, Hungary had strong fundamentals and sound public finances thanks to a consistent economic policy over the last few years, so the epidemic hit a resilient, balanced economy last March. Now, that's what a word is not true, Mr. Secretary of State. Although the budget deficit has been achieved for years below the Maastricht 3 percent threshold, the government debt has been on a declining path, the balance of payments has been in a steady state, whereas the Hungarian economy has indeed increased to an outstanding extent between 2017 and 2019, but what they have done is not right in this respect. [[11.00]] Because inflation gradually accelerated during this period, Europe was one of the fastest before the epidemic and reached almost 5 percent in January 2020. Indeed, the general government deficit remained below 3 per cent, but otherwise it was committed in an international context where Romania was typically the second highest in the European Union, while they were working with suffractive budgets in the European Union and there was a need to start crisis management. In the meantime, that's what you did. The real interest rate was extremely negative, the forint was constantly, feltly weakened, I could say that it was deliberately weakened, but this is not the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Although public debt decreased by 2009, around the rate of nationalised private pension funds, while the so-called implicit government debt was created. As before, you do not speak of the dynamic and internal balance of EU transfers, while you have lived from it to the end. In the 2020 processes, the decline in the Hungarian economy was lower than the European average and weak and moderate in the region. However, the general government deficit-to-GDP ratio was much higher than the European average, which is the second highest in the region after Romania. So the effectiveness of spending was not good, that is what we are all talking about here. The general government deficit is not only its size but also its structure is problematic. The fact that 40 percent of the annual cash flow deficit occurred in December shows that this could not have played a role in the braking of the 2020 downturn. Despite the public funds, not the workers affected by the crisis, the families, and not them, for example, the three-month period of the job search support did not increase, the orphans alone were not helped. A significant part of the aid was investment aid for ownership groups loyal to the state and the government, regardless of their economic rationality. This is not a crisis management, Honourable Government, Honourable Secretary of State. A very significant amount of money went out to support sport, churches, Hungarians living outside the border, while their role as a generator of growth was minimal. Therefore, it is safe to say that the functional expenditure of public finances continues to support a state-oriented structure in which the structure of functional expenditure relative to GDP has changed negatively in recent years, reflecting a state-oriented and non-knowledge-based economic development concept. Despite the crisis, the share of spending on social security and welfare functions has decreased, and education has continued to fall behind, while supporting the minor areas mentioned above has increased. There has been a significant increase in public investment. In the accounts, only so that everyone can understand the figures of the European Member States on pages 233 and 234. The former shows the distribution of public expenditure and the latter's share of GDP. Within the consolidated functional expenditure of public finances, I say this in a cash flow perspective, the proportion of expenditure on public operational functions has not changed substantially compared to 2019. Law enforcement and public security share decreased, and welfare functions decreased from 56 percent to 54 percent. The share of education has also decreased among the functions listed here. Social security and welfare services decreased from 27.5 percent to 23.8 percent. The share of housing has decreased from 3.1 percent to 2.9 percent. However, they have grown, and in this sense, it is understandable that spending on health care accounts for a lot of things from 8.9 percent to 10.9 percent. The share of economic functions in public finances increased from 18,5 per cent to 20.7 per cent. This is the result of the increase from 5.1 percent to 7.7 percent in the other category. Moreover, an increase of 2 percentage points is explained by the increase in public development expenditure. If you translate that, Mr. Secretary, here's the cost of moving to the Castle. You have spent on this, and if you look at it factually, and if you look at it numerically, you will find that you wanted to manage or manage crisis management by financing public investment, but that does not mean that people's social situation, health situation, access to health services have improved, and this has had serious consequences, and I have already mentioned this. However, the role of crisis management in an uncertain market environment is significantly questionable. Finally, if we look at it in an international comparison, the tax and contribution revenues of the Hungarian government sector in proportion to GDP remained substantially unchanged compared to 2019. Despite improvements in recent years, the current rate is still only the same as in 2011, which can be seen in this respect. Only Croatian and Slovenian data were higher than Hungarian data in the region in 2020, i.e. this is the massive centralisation indicated. The share of social benefits relative to GDP increased by 0.8 percentage points in 2020 and only the Latvian and Romanian rates were lower in the Hungarian region. However, the gross fixed capital accumulation of the government sector in proportion to GDP is the second highest in the whole European Union and its utilisation in crisis situations, in such social conditions, is highly questionable. There is no EU data for a number of expenditures in 2020; on the basis of the data for 2019 Hungary's share of public policy in the European Union is the third, the second, the highest proportion of money spent on leisure activities. At the same time, the smallest amounts are spent on health and environmental protection in the region. For education and social protection, however, more than the average of the European Union. To sum up, I have to say that the budget that you are now obliged to account for in this form, in the particular situation created by the economic crisis, the social crisis resulting from it, their account and the way the spending has been spent, is unacceptable from this point of view, and, as a consequence, neither the budget nor its amendment, and so the report on it has remained unacceptable, Mr Secretary of State, because the funds have not been used for the benefit of the people. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-20-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2021-10-20-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I will start with what my fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, mentioned earlier, that we were able to listen to Mr Mihály Varga's exposé as a departure here in the morning, and if someone had joined this story a little later and did not know that the budget closure in 2020 was concerned, he would have thought that this was a presentation at a campaign event, because the Minister of Finance said such campaign-like things, and in two-thirds of his 40-minute lecture he talked about such things. [[11.10]] He talked a lot about the progress made between 2014 and 2019, then about the plans for 2021 and 2022, and he spoke very, very little about the year 2020. But what he said about preventive and expected trends, there were many, many problems there, too. Because if we take seriously what Minister said, that 4.7 million people are working in Hungary today, and if we compare this with the 2010 figure, then we get a 25% increase in the number of people, which is very impressive, but if we increase the growth rate of GDP compared to 2010, we will still get such a 25 percent increase. Now, if we compare the two, we can see that productivity in Hungary has not increased at all during these ten years. Is this really good? But, in fact, it is not, I would like to reassure you, because employment has not increased to this extent. If we were realistic, it would be much less than that, because if we look at the total hours worked, for example, there was no employment growth at all in 2020 but a decrease, which was a fall of 8-9 per cent. Then, if it were normal to count where foreign workers are classified, we would also get different numbers. So productivity isn't as gloomy as it stood out in this performance. The other thing is that Minister Varga spoke very positively about how high the investment rate in Hungary is, that it is 27 percent. Yes, that is certainly true, but this is the main symptom of an extensive economic growth, and if we add that a very significant part of the investment is public investment, then it is obvious that it is an artificially pumped economy. And unfortunately, it was not in the direction of investment in human capital and not in the direction of high-value production, but rather in the construction sector, the construction industry, which makes this extensive growth clear. Minister, he also said about the tax reduction, how good it is, how low our corporate tax is. My fellow Member Nacsa mentioned this, by the way. Yes, this clearly shows that Hungary is a backward country trying to maintain its competitiveness by reducing taxes and keeping the country in a colonial line, as it calls for the foreign capital that has low value added production, which does not use the most advanced technology, which is polluting, and we are trying to provide an appropriate economic background. Well, as far as closing hours are concerned: my fellow opposition Members have already said a lot of things, so I can save a lot of time in this regard by not repeating them, and I am trying to say a few words about things that may be important, and it will be worth mentioning them again. The first thing that is, of course, a recurring problem is that in 2020 the budget was not properly put together and hit. But obviously there's an excuse for the government, because there's been an economic crisis, and it's certainly upset the whole story. At the expense of that, many things can be written, but still, I think not everything. So there is a whole new thread in this story, a whole new phenomenon, which is a new phenomenon, that the Orbán government has consistently tried to implement and implement a rigorous fiscal policy after 2010, and this has undoubtedly been a very positive element compared to the period before 2010. So there were few positive things to say about the Fidesz government, but it certainly was. However, this was broken in 2020 and in 2020-21 the Orbán government did switch to fiscal alcoholism and does not consider the issue of the general government deficit at all and does not address it as a central issue. Here, in itself, the extraordinary situation itself and the crisis do not explain this whole story. Let me quote you on Viktor Orbán's interview in April 2020 when it was clear that the European Union did not stick to the 3% limit, so Brussels has let this one up. After that, Viktor Orbán said, and I quote him now that he is now living without a neck in this situation with the possibility of being indebted because the budget deficit is a jargon or term in a bullwood language, but in Hungarian it means that he is in debt, who I think is now indebted to him unduly or too much, in a few months' time, when we are past the first great waves of crisis, he will find himself hanged, and the creditors and speculators will be pulling him on a wire. He said that at the time, and compared to that, the December 2020 story that my colleague Varju spoke about when the money was shoveled out or thrown out of a helicopter to a huge extent, because we should remember that the cash flow deficit in 2020 was 11,3 percent. There has been no history of such a thing! And the debt-to-GDP ratio rose to 80.1 percent, or 15 percentage points in one year! Such was not, moreover, in the time of the Gyurcsány government, which has often been quoted and mentioned by the members of the government, which you have often mentioned. So they needed a longer period of time to create debt growth of this magnitude. But in a few months, the Orbán government was able to complete this. In other words, there was a huge change here, a change: the European Union turned off the lights, and the Orbán government took advantage of it to do what it wanted. The head of the SAO interprets this as not an exemption clause, but an authorisation clause, and this empowering provision was used by the government and very quickly spent money and led the country back on the path of debt. By the way, this is demonstrated and demonstrated by the fact that this is not just an additional expenditure due to the crisis, because I quote once again the success of the government side, an economic growth of 17.7 per cent was achieved in the second quarter of 2021. In this situation, in the third quarter, because this concerns the second quarter, what justified the government's huge borrowings, and the debt/GDP ratio, which is still on a declining path, has risen again above 80 per cent, and is likely to be over 80 per cent at the end of the year? [[11.20]] Márton Nagy, the Prime Minister's advisor, said that in the third quarter, the cash flow deficit is likely to be 15 percent. Fifteen percent! This is incredibly high, so it clearly shows that a fundamental government philosophical shift has started here, i.e. the reins have been thrown into the horses, and obviously there is a consideration now on the government side that if these significant expenditures can turn the public mood around and in 2020 We can win, then we can swallow the bitter pills with society, and there will be a great restoration, a great recovery, because the balance must be restored. And if not, it is a pure gain, because then we will place the opposition on a forced course in which it will not be able to implement its own economic policy, but will be forced to try, above all, to strike a balance. My fellow Members have talked a lot about what this huge amount of extra money was spent on, and I really don't want to repeat it here, but it was not for family allowances, not for job protection, not for unemployment benefit or old-age pension increases, it wasn't for social benefits, it wasn't for the municipalities, it was for the municipalities, it was for 225 billion, but it was for churches, sports events or sports investments, it was for Butcher's hotels, it was for stamp museums, it was for Corvinus Investment Ltd., it was for the purchase of ventilators, it was for Mathias Corvinus Collegium, so they spent these extra money on such and similar things, and unfortunately, the most important economic development programmes were missed. The structure of the budget has already been discussed, and my colleagues have spoken about it. The same is true here of the fact that the structure of the budget has not changed, the same trends continue as in the previous period, so the beneficiary sectors are the operating functions of the State, where there was a small but also an increase in 2020 and thus increased in proportion to 2019. Further growth in economic functions could also be observed, although small here too. There is only one cuckoo egg: the share of the money spent on health care, its share is now not reduced, but increased, but obviously this can be interpreted in the context of the Covid epidemic. And the losers still have education and welfare functions, including, in particular, social security, whose share and share have continued to decline. From all of this, it is possible to conclude that such a drastic 15 percentage points increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio over a year is a phenomenon, something that will certainly determine the functioning of the Hungarian economy for a long time, since we are once again among the countries with high debt-to-GDP ratios. The other very important element of this year 2020 is that, unfortunately, the Hungarian economy is not in fact crisis-resistant and is no stronger than it was in 2008 or 2009. It is true that the decline was only 4.7 percent, which is smaller than, say, during the 2008-2009 crisis, and it is also true from the other side that it is somewhere in the middle of the European Union average, but at the same time it should be added that this has all happened with a huge amount of public expenditure being spent by the government to prevent such a strong setback, which alone would not have been a problem. The problem is that these expenditures were primarily and primarily designed to preserve or preserve a particular economic structure, a particular economic structure, that is to say that these huge amounts of money and the crisis itself, because all economic crises are also an opportunity, the possibility of serious restructuring and restructuring taking place in the economy, the Orbán government did not use at all, it burned the funds, the European Union funds and budgetary resources that could otherwise have been used to make real changes in Hungary; it was also possible to start modernising; it was possible to invest money in the high-tech industries; it was possible to start implementing the achievements of the fourth industrial revolution; it was possible for small businesses that were destroyed, in tourism, catering and other areas, to start new businesses, in line with global economic trends, to become connected to a new division of labour. Well, nothing of these has been achieved, nothing has happened, because in 2020 the main engine of the whole economic growth or economic downturn was the construction and construction industry, and the traditional sectors whose export activity and export production are very low, and we are still forced to produce the vast majority and most of exports by companies with a majority of foreign ownership, which is obviously a significant vulnerability. So this crisis period, which would also have provided an opportunity, was not used by the government for what it was supposed to be, but rather for it to try to provide its own NER system in some way to provide additional resources so that they could get over this crisis well. And he did not care at all whether the long-term prospects of the country, Hungary, the Hungarian economy and its exit from the backward situation could or will not be achieved at all. I think that this is a sinful omission in this regard, and it seems very much that the same story will continue in 2021, that is, there is no real perspective before the Hungarian economy, the assembly plant and the semi-colonial fate will remain. In this context, the Dialogue cannot support and accept this proposal, so we do not support this budget discharge. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a representative of nationality, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Mr Speaker, Mr President of the Commission.
u2021-10-20-21	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrter Herr Präsident des Staatlichen Rechnungshofs! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich der Umsetzung des Gesetzes Nr. LXXI über den Zentralhaushalt Ungarns für Jahr 2020 mit Nr. 17188, force field. [[11.30]] Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/17188. LXXI of 2019 on Hungary's central budget for 2020 on the bill for the implementation of the law! Allow me to quote the beginning of one of my first speeches to Parliament on 14 October 2014. On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I welcome you on the occasion that, for the first time in the Hungarian Parliament, I can express the opinion of our committee as the rapporteur invited by the Committee on Nationalities in the general debate on a bill. We consider it important for the minority committee to be natural in the Hungarian Parliament as soon as possible that representatives of Hungarian ethnicities speak in the mother tongue of their nationality, but I will now do the rest of my contribution in Hungarian for the sake of clarity. Since then, it has become a customary right in Parliament to start speaking in the language of the nationality of the minority advocate, to translate his speech, and to finish his speech in the language of his nationality. Then, seven years ago, I went on to say, "The 2012 CCIV on Hungary's central budget for 2013. We are in a difficult and easy situation at the same time in the course of the opinion of the discharge. On the one hand, in a difficult situation, because this comment was supposed to take place here in Parliament almost 20 years ago for the first time, so that almost two decades of failure should be eliminated as soon as possible in all aspects. On the other hand, the easy situation is caused by the fact that, unfortunately, we indigenous ethnicities in Hungary had little to do with the establishment of the 2013 Finance Act, so that we can give an honest opinion on its implementation without any responsibility. I would like to start with the support of civil society organisations and minority organisations, as they are the guardians and cradles of ethnic culture, ethnic traditions, ethnic identity. Unfortunately, there are not many positives in this area. The operating support of national minority NGOs was HUF 110 million per year in 2013, which has not increased since 2002 and was also HUF 105 million in 2001. Inflation was close to 60 per cent during this period, so this aid is worth at least that much less today. Recovering the real value of grants should be at least the responsibility of the 2015 budget at the level of 2002. Only a fraction of the amount of funding allocated to support the programme of minority civil society organisations is covered. Applications to the Human Resources Support Manager for 2013-14 show that only about a quarter of the legitimate subsidies requested for both operating grants and cultural programmes could be assessed. The funding for ethnic student camps is even more scarce. As a concrete example, only the German application was nearly HUF 51 million, 1.7 times the total amount of HUF 30 million for 13 nationalities. Finally, HUF 7.5 million could be allocated to the German applications, i.e. only 15% of the requested amount. This unworthy situation should also be substantially improved in the planning of the 2015 budget. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary will make concrete proposals. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The quote from my speech seven years ago is over. Allow me then to list some of the decisive results of the last seven years, which include an increase of HUF 2 billion in the HUF 2 billion grant provided for in the Central Budget Act of 2022 adopted in spring. We have increased the operating support of national minority authorities to nearly double; we have established an investment and renovation framework of approximately HUF 3 billion in 2022 for the renovation of the buildings and buildings of national minority authorities and their reserved ethnic institutions. Secondly, we have quadrupled their operating support and two-and-a-half-fold the task-based subsidies in local minority self-governments. Thirdly, 55 local minority self-governments have taken over the maintenance rights of 75 ethnic public education institutions in the last seven years as part of the implementation of national cultural and educational autonomy. At these institutions, we first took over trust rights in 2017 and then took over property ownership in 2020. For these institutions, we have already created a HUF 2 billion investment, renovation and tendering framework in 2022, and a HUF 350 million operating grant supplement will also be available in 2022. Within the framework of the national minority educator programme, we have raised, extended and differentiated the minority pedagogy allowance four times, which means that this year, in 2021, some 4 thousand ethnic teachers will receive or receive about HUF 3.5 billion more ethnical allowances than in 2017. Similarly, on 1 September 2018, we introduced the National Education Student Scholarship Scheme, which is expected to result in a contract with 87 students for 2018-19, 217 students for 2019-20, 436 students for 2020-21, and more than 500 students for national education, teachers and teachers, based on the 2021-22 proposal, which is now in progress on Friday. From 2019 we have provided special and targeted support to training universities and colleges in order to significantly increase the number of students in national education and the quality of training, but there is still a lot of work to be done in this area. Last but not least, ethnic identity and culture are cradles of ethnic cultural and traditional associations. Therefore, I am particularly proud, we are proud that we have been able to increase the operational support of national minority NGOs from HUF 110 million to HUF 500 million, i.e. four and a half times higher, and we have also been able to increase the support of ethnic cultural programmes from HUF 110 million to HUF 700 million, i.e. more than six times. We have been able to increase the funding from HUF 30 million to HUF 400 million, i.e. more than 13 times the amount of funding for the national language student camps. Overall, it is objectively possible to say that we have been able to increase the support of Hungarian indigenous nationalities by less than HUF 4 billion in 2014 to more than HUF 22 billion, i.e. nearly six times the amount of HUF 2022. If we add that, between 2000 and 2014, in the 14 years preceding the parliamentary representation, there was almost no substantial increase in support, then, I think, there is nothing more to talk about. [[11.40]] It is fair to say that the national representation of the Parliament in 2014 has been the beginning of a new era for the 13 indigenous Hungarian nationalities. At this point, as I have done many times, I have to stop and thank the Hungarian government, the factions of government, without reservation, for the positive decisions that the 13 indigenous Hungarian ethnicities have received grants and opportunities that have not been experienced in Hungary in the last hundred years. Thank you very much, God keep your good habits for the future. I also thank all the parliamentary factions and all the independent representatives of the previous Parliament and the present Parliament for their almost always supporting the proposals of nationality. Personally, I consider it the greatest result of the parliamentary participation of the last seven years that, as minorities in Hungary, we have been able to achieve in the Hungarian Parliament that all the legislative amendments and initiatives submitted by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities have been adopted essentially unanimously by all the factions and independent representatives of the Hungarian Parliament. They did not bid on it, they did not attack it, they did not submit an amendment, in Hungarian: the issues of nationality were excluded from the parliamentary battles, often from filth, and were always adopted unanimously as a rare national consensus. Thank you. In this case, I would like to point out that although there is no doubt that indigenous ethnicities in Hungary have been budget beneficiaries for the last seven years, this is out of the question, but we must always look at where we started and what situation we are in. I'm gonna let that go. I hope that I will have the opportunity to do so in the autumn next to the report of the budget law of 2021. Instead, I would like to thank Minister of State Dr. Péter Benő Banai for his very fair and cooperative work over the last seven years, in which, despite the fact that we are looking at the story from a different perspective and that is why there are differences of views between us, but he has always shown a perfectly correct and compromiseable attitude. So thank you very much, and I would ask you to convey to all your colleagues the thanks of the committee on nationalities. However, I would like to point out here that, in addition to increasing the size of the aid, we have also been able to achieve with legal guarantees that the distribution of national funds, grants and tendering frameworks is carried out under the legal supervision of the ministries responsible for nationalities, but the 13 indigenous nationalities themselves are decisively responsible. In addition to the objective numbers for increasing minority support, it is also very important that Hungarian politicians and the Hungarian parliament have become partners in solving the goals and problems of indigenous nationalities in Hungary. In recent years, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has submitted 14 independent legislative amendments, dozens of related legislative amendments, and has been part of the political life of Hungary. For the results achieved, I thank all 13 national minority self-governments for their cooperation and for the effective work of the spokespersons, colleagues and experts of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the result-oriented, but always ready to cooperate and to agree. On the basis of this, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is set up under Article T/17188 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. LXXI of 2019 on Hungary's central budget for 2020 It agrees with and supports the adoption of the bill on the implementation of the law. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2021-10-20-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2021-10-20-23	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to point out to the pro-government Member following me, and also to the Secretary of State, as a question, what they think of the euro exchange rate, the conscious weakening spiral that has a serious impact on both the budget and closing accounts. I'll tell you why. When we discussed the closing account last year, we already charged you that you were planning for a HUF 311 exchange rate, which is what you predicted. This became a HUF 325 exchange rate. So it is clear that the difference in the exchange rate between budgeting and its implementation is yelling, which affects a lot of budget lines. In the period since then, the weakening of the forint continued to spin. The price of the euro exchange rate of 360 HUF does not seem surprising at all, but some analysts predict the entry into the 380 band. And we also see that both the central bank and the government's delayed and desperate steps are unfortunately not going to succeed. Moreover, this not only leads to the continuous slippery depreciation of our national assets, but also to the fact that, if we look at our GDP data in US dollars, we see that there was a period when Hungarian GDP was less than a few years ago, taking into account the weak exchange rate than at the time, which is a serious competitive disadvantage. So the point of our question is clear: does the government plan to pursue a conscious depreciation policy, to provide any counter-opinion against it, or does it continue to choose the path of kindness to multi-companies, large exporting companies? I must add that this goes to the pockets and wallets of the Hungarian people, and for every product purchased in the store, Hungarians pay extra costs so that you can put our nation's currency, the forint, under a slippery discount. Thank you.
u2021-10-20-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we now have the written speaker announced in advance. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group.
u2021-10-20-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, I am particularly pleased that you are here in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to deal with one area. Our country, as almost most countries in the world, has been affected by a coronal virus epidemic in recent years, in 2020, and I would now like to address the health budget lines. As in previous years, the MSZP has been critical of the 2020 budget due to its soundness and weight loss. Of course, the central element of the criticism was that the government did not intend to provide sufficient resources for any sub-area of health. This took the form of a specific failure to raise wages. Although the long-term wage development programme was continued by the government in 2020, this did not represent a substantial increase in many cases for health professionals, since their wages did not even reach the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage even in addition to the increase. To this end, the MSZP proposed a large, comprehensive wage increase based on the proposals of the MOK on the increase in medical wages. In 2020, the government announced that doctors' wages would be increased on the basis of the MOK proposal, and this increase would be significant. However, this wage increase had a serious cost, which was not agreed before. It has been linked to the introduction of a health service relationship, which has led to full legal uncertainty for health workers for three to four months, in particular in terms of second job, termination, transferability, days off and severance; this, of course, in the middle of the pandemic. This peaked in 2021 when more than 5,000 healthcare workers left the care system overnight due to the introduction of the legal relationship. It is important to point out that the salary of health professionals has not been properly arranged, that their salary is far below the national average wage, and that, as a result of the above-mentioned wage increase, it is the doctor's, which causes a huge wage tension in the sector as well. [[11.50]] The lack of health professionals has now become one of the most significant health-related conditions. Our institutional system. Under-financing of the health care system after 2010 continued to remain stable in 2020. In combination with an inefficient distribution mechanism, underfunding results in Hungary's healthcare system being lagging behind even compared to those countries in many areas of early detection of diseases, the fight against cancers, which spend a similar amount of money on health as our country in proportion to GDP. The financing problems have been further increased by the above mentioned wage increases. Here, let me just say that in my speech before yesterday's agenda, I was talking exactly about health care, waiting lists, and how much trouble it caused, let's say, the lack of screening in cancer patients. Yesterday Bence Rétvári dared to say, Mr Secretary of State, in his reply that all the patients, all the cancer patients, all the cancer-related surgeries, did not fail, despite the epidemic, and despite the fact that the situation was often critical in Hungary, this did not happen. I would recommend to the Secretary of State that you read today's news, that all media reports that about 5,000 patients, 15-20 percent of patients, have not entered the care system, because the screening programmes have not been carried out, and there will be very serious consequences, because if cancer patients do not get into the care system in time, they can no longer save their lives. The adoption of the budget too early was particularly noticeable in 2020, where health protection against the coronal virus epidemic was a key element. However, this was mistreated by the government at almost all levels, with the result that Hungary was at the forefront of the world in proportion to its population in relation to those who died because of the coronal virus. The thoughtfulness of the control of the epidemic is well illustrated by the fact that it is the Anti-CDC Fund, which is part of Article IV. This was named on the 6th of October, with a total of one page in the accounts, and 80 percent of the text is about how this fund was created. Do you understand? In the middle of the epidemic, there's a page about it. The chapter justification does not contain any guidance for its detailed use. This incorrect procedure also occurred in the financing of the coronal virus epidemic. The fact that the government was unable to adequately finance healthcare proves, on the one hand, the cumulative debt of hospitals and, on the other hand, this fact was acknowledged by the government itself. In reply to a written question, the EMMI states that most of the outstanding liabilities and debts derive from the fact that systemic funding did not cover costs related to the coronal virus that had not been experienced before. This response was provided by the government in spring 2021, recognising that funding to hospitals and the provision of resources to control the Crown Virus in 2020 had not been resolved. It was precisely because of these financing weaknesses that the closing statement also pointed out that a debt settlement programme of HUF 32 billion had to be implemented in December 2020 with the debt of hospitals again being HUF 41.6 billion by May 2021 and nearly HUF 30 billion based on the latest figures. This has been the case despite the fact that the closure report itself draws attention to the fact that, from March 2020, average funding has been used to determine hospitals' budgets, but this has not been taken into account for payments under the target appropriations, as well as for operating costs advance, waiting list reductions, extra funding, high-value drug financing and special-funded special-purpose care appropriations. The above-mentioned response and the increase in hospital debt clearly indicate that the method of financing introduced was completely unsuccessful. The errors in funding not only came into the 2020 budget, but also the annual problem with debt settlement at the end of the year. The ten-billion-dollar debt arrangement shows that the real costs of benefits in hospitals are not covered by the current funding and that hospitals are unable to manage the costs even if they are seeking economical farming. Funding problems with other economic solutions, such as the method of raising wages, result in hospital funding increasingly divorcing from performance-based remuneration and quality requirements. This means that hospitals' budgets are less and less dependent on the quality of the service provided and the number of people they provide, and there is a risk that they will not provide the most and best services they can afford. All I would say about the wage increase is that if the government doesn't take seriously what the nurses' union and the community are constantly saying, that the doctor's salary arrangement has happened, although I would add that what is threatened by it, let me give you one example. From a hospital in Budapest, we received news from doctors that doctors, workers, and films and films were broadcast to them were unable to determine whether the circumstances were real or only made, it was a film with actors, where they showed the circumstances under which they could catch doctors for accepting gratitude money, how they were taken in handcuffs, and what the consequences were. This is a very bad time for us when this happens in Hungary. I think it was the right path, initiated by the profession and politics and the public, that the gratuity money should be eliminated, but intimidation will never lead to anything. We need to talk a little bit about remodeling the GPs, about basic care. According to the declaration of closure, the development of primary care is one of the main health problems of this government cycle, not only for the government but also for the population. The resources added to strengthen the GP system will be paid several times in the specialized care area if patients can be treated in GP instead of inpatient care that is more expensive. The aim is to strengthen basic care by developing the tasks of basic and specialised care precisely, by creating the corresponding operating conditions along with the optimisation of patient road management. In addition to strengthening primary care and taking into account patients' interests, funding for primary care has been increased several times in recent years. The interests of closing accounts described above are strongly nuanced by two circumstances. One is that although the new Basic Supply Act was adopted in 2015, its implementing regulations and rules are set out in 2021. ANNEX II The profession had to wait until the 9th of the month. The Government therefore postponed the strengthening of the basic supply for six years after it had otherwise established the necessary legal conditions. What have you been waiting for for for six years? No one can say that to this day. On the other hand, the new legislation that applies to them has disrupted the functioning of the general practitioner. In exchange for increased funding, doctors had to set up practice communities in exchange for uncontested rules. The loosest form of the community of practitioners, with few exceptions, has been accepted by all of the general practitioners, but they are looking for the most relaxed form of consortium with even greater funding. They are therefore looking for less cooperation, with the least resources available, and the highest level of cooperation, according to the regulation, this goes against the principle of practice communities. And the government's justification that the community of practice solves the case of unfilled practices is simply a lie. You wanted to solve it so that the news doesn't come down every week that the number of empty practices has risen again by tens and twentys and thirtys, because the press, as well as us, and the residents have constantly seen the number of GP districts, the number of areas of pediatric medicine that are not filled, where there is no GP. In addition, if we look at the cords of the general practitioners, we can tell about a rather deplorable situation from week to week, month to month, year to year. [[12.00]] Just because the government wanted to create the practice communities doesn't mean that there'll be any more general practitioners in the country, doesn't mean there won't be any more pediatricians in the country. This fundamental problem has not been solved, and we also see that the kind of practice community that the government has created, three types, clearly has not brought about the success that the government expected of it. Here again, I have to mention the problem that I raised on Monday to Mr Rétvári State Secretary, the experimental introduction of the on-call system in Hajdú-Bihar County. It's been three months, and there's been some pretty chaotic reports from GPs. We also know that the government has not paid for the work of the last three months, and we also see that the shortage of professionals has not been resolved. There are two paramedics on duty one night, there are two paramedics who don't have a driver's license, so they don't have a chance to see a patient. The doctors have reported terrible things. I also asked Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, and to this day they have not answered why the county of Hajdú-Bihar, what they see after the last three months, and they will think about it, because they have communicated that if they succeed in carrying out this experimental on-call system, they will extend it to the whole country. I would warn you against what we've experienced in Hajdú-Bihar County in the last three months. I very much ask the Secretary of State to answer these questions. The other is that several of my opposition fellow Members have said the terrible things about health that we have experienced during the epidemic. I very much hope, despite the fact that several opposition politicians have reported in recent years either on the purchase of respirators or on vaccinations, on protective equipment, in all cases either refused the prosecution's office or the police did not investigate in the absence of a criminal offence. I hope that sooner or later, there will be consequences, because these brutal sums must be responsible for something that wasn't spent during the epidemic for the purposes that they should have. Thank you so much for listening. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-10-20-26	Good afternoon. We will continue our work, and we will continue our work by listening to the Congresswoman of DK, Mrs Anett Bősz. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In the debate on the bill before us, I would like to devote the first thought to what we said to the opposition colleagues when the budget to be closed was planned and we discussed, namely, that it is not good that Parliament has been adopting budget laws for years now without seeing the closing accounts for the previous year. This has been exponentially true since the coronal virus epidemic affected our lives in amazing depths and dimensions, shaped the world economy, the economic environment that we can see, and our national economy that we could not have imagined before. It would have been good to count on that, and I think that we should also talk about it in the closing statement debate. We also need to talk about the fact that the central subsystem closed last year with a HUF 5548.6 billion deficit in the cash flow perspective, which is well beyond what the specialist portfolio had previously calculated. Only in December, December 2020, there was a deficit of 2250 billion in budget, a record record of history, and it also shows that the unprecedented spending at the end of the year did not go without a trace. Minister, at yesterday's conference, he was talking about it, and I am quoting Mihály Varga, and high inflation is going to hurt for a long time, and the Minister also spoke at this conference about a slower reduction in public debt than expected. This is a turning point, Mr State Secretary, because, at the beginning of the coronal virus epidemic, we have said to the opposition colleagues that it is extremely important to face up to the actual situation of the economy, the Hungarian economy as well as the European Economic Community, and to start from here in dealing with the crisis. I welcome these sentences by Minister because I perceive them as steps in this direction. Members of the Committee on Budgets will certainly remember that in these months, Mr President, I have just described here with the extra deficit of more than HUF 2000 billion, for example, in December he invited experts to the Committee on Budgets, who was former Minister of Industry and Trade, former President of the Central Bank, current leading economic analyst. A wide range of ideas could have been presented, or could have been, fellow Members in the pro-government benches, if Lajos Szűcs, vice-president of the committee had not informed the chairman of the committee or his members that the pro-government representatives were not interested in the specialists who wanted to participate in the disease management and the development of the economic package. I would also like to say from here, although I am most sorry to say that Vice-President Lajos Szűcs is no longer in the room, he said that the opposition colleagues did not take part in the disease management, this would have been the opportunity for the members of the Committee on Budgets, the wallet and the current professional group to find a solution together. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that almost one in every third of our countrymen now live in a settlement run by the mayor of the opposition. These mayors took their share of the epidemic treatment in an amazing way, not regardless of the fact that in many cases the central budget did not help, but even hit the settlements with funds, and they were therefore under heavy pressure. This is where I turn to the second thought. Here, too, I would like to talk about what was said in the Minister's exposé, because Minister said that the financing of local authorities is carried out in a task-based financing system, the transfer of the car tax and other withdrawals represent only 1 percent of the funding framework, just 40 billion forints. However, it doesn't matter what micro-image we find behind the beautifully sounding macro-image, and we do find a micro-image that the cities with Fidesz-led county rights received about HUF 1.4 billion as a Christmas gift as an epidemic compensation, and that in many cases the independent or opposition-led cities were waiting in vain for the government's help. I must say, beyond the fact that we are going through discretionary decisions until the 2020 budget closes, which not only destroy and destroy the principle of subsidiarity and local democratic principles, but indeed the decision of the local electorate in an extraordinary way. I think, of course, that these words are not primarily addressed to the Secretary of State here, because, with Mr State Secretary, we mostly discuss figures, but rather to my fellow Members sitting in the benches of Fidesz and KDNP, that they have not only violated the rules of budget and farming, the rule of law framework, the democratic institutional system, and a lot of things that should not be included in a framework in the Republic. According to Minister for Local Government Budget, drawing only 1 percent of the local government budget is, in fact, as if nothing had happened. I have to say, if we pay attention to, say, our parents, who advise us that if we put aside every tenth of our salary, if we have a very big problem in life, we can save ourselves from the crisis. This is certainly true, and it takes an extremely poor financial situation to miss the tenth HUF that our parents offer to save. According to Minister, the municipalities should have given up only one hundred forints, and I would have the right to ask the poetic question of what kind of city manager can't survive a 1 percent budget reduction, then why did they undertake the task of becoming the leader of up to 500,000 or 10,000 people for five years. But that's not true in this way. Not only did the municipalities lose every hundred forints, but, with a significant involvement in the originally defined task-based financing system, at times, one of the municipalities benefited the government-led municipalities, while many people were waiting in vain for help, who came out of the democratic benches as city leaders. [[12.10]] So this is the practice, honourable Members, that is what I believe Minister has not mentioned in his expozee. And I must also say that, in addition to the fact that this has happened, very little has been said here within Parliament's walls, that, despite the significant budgetary disadvantages that these city leaders have had, a wave of solidarity has started in the most serious months of the coronal virus epidemic, which, by the way, I note that we have been able to move beyond the offers of small entrepreneurs or even larger companies, and we have been able to show in the opposition settlements that we can deal well with an epidemic with, and that we can also pay attention to those who are in the most difficult situation. However, I would like to turn the question of local government withdrawal around, because if the withdrawal costs only HUF 40 billion, I do not understand why the government and opposition have such a big argument about whether the municipalities deserve this compensation. The Minister has also given a specific figure of 1 percent; I would also like to bring a specific number here, as this HUF 40 billion is just 1.6 per cent of the budget as a whole. In other words, if the settlement leaders had to give up every hundredth forint, then the central budget would only have to return every HUF 625 to these settlements, and we would already be on the spot. I think the government could say in this situation that peace is better, at least that's what I would say. In view of the plans of 23 October, I see a peace process being planned, so if peace is so important to the peace process, then I think it would be good for the budget to have peace, not to mention that the principles of local democratic principles and subsidiarity would not be violated here, for example. Speaking of the rule of law, this is also a type of peace, at least in a European sense. I also ask with respect, and I would like to ask Mr. State Secretary with this question: if everything was so well in this country, that if smaller settlements could benefit from such resources, that if the entrepreneurs who were able to benefit from the hundreds of billions of HUF rescue packages here, and by the way, we argued in order last summer, for example, that these large companies with already high revenue and high turnover could handle an entire year's revenue loss, why didn't we pay more attention to small and medium-sized companies? Why didn't we pay attention to businesses that are, say, under five employers, and which, unfortunately, according to the current register of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, are falling out? Thus, we find very good numbers in employment data, but at the same time this is not the real picture at all. I would like to return to the fact that I welcomed the real picture that Minister Mihály Varga took at a conference yesterday, and I would also welcome the fact that if we were to continue to deal with the crisis in the same way, we would start from the real numbers and at last not argue that if someone had lost their job, we would have to help him or not. I'm saying that temporarily, in any way, until he can fight to get his job back. Similarly, the employer should be assisted on the other side. Here, my opposition colleagues have spoken about this in previous speeches, that we travel more than 250 kilometers west, there was a man employed in the catering industry, who could receive up to 90 percent of his previous salary by having, by the way, a lock on the door of the restaurant that employs him just as he did here in the city centre or in any restaurant in Hungary at the moment when this happened. What I am saying, therefore, is that in this debate on closure, it is important to talk about the fact that, among the epidemiological measures, as regards the economic and social crisis and crisis management, in many cases, we find late, delayed and inadequate services, as regards public services and public goods, towards those in distress. We need to talk about the fact that the municipalities have been mixed up in a rather uneven way in a better or worse situation, and we also need to talk about the fact that when we put together the big picture, we have to pay attention to the fact that the building blocks of this are people, the municipalities they choose, the local communities that have shaken the alarm many times or asked for help from the Hungarian government, but somehow it has not arrived for a very large number of people. I trust that next year we can do this differently with a new democratic government, and I believe that this is what the speeches have been about in the last four hours. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-10-20-28	Thank you very much. Before I can give the floor to the representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpát, I must give priority to the application of the representative of the government under our house rules. Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth has applied for a statement. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to comment on this because it is the closing report, but it is the health care that has been mentioned by the MSZP Congresswoman. Once again, I would like to express our different aspects and views on the same issue that we have already had the opportunity to confront here, namely how we value the health situation, the wages of doctors, the wages of the workers. As a representative of the MSZP, you obviously know that five thousand doctors had been on the ground before 2010 because of the measures taken by the MSZP government at that time, many had to leave the country in order to find a job. They took money out of the pocket of health care, some institutions, let me say the National Institute of Accident Surgery, for example, but several other hospitals, with zero forints of funding, were attached to other hospitals. I repeat, Congresswoman, I have had the opportunity to tell you that it is very difficult to heal. Since 2010, there has been a different kind of government perception of health and people's health. We are talking about health care that wants to preserve people's health and that can help them as quickly as possible and as much as possible, and the respect for those who work in it. This is why we have also launched the pay-raise cycles for health care workers, which will now be the last step of the second multi-annual labour wage increase in January 2022. As you know, since 18 we've had a 72 percent increase compared to the wages they paid at the time, this is the last 21 percent increase compared to this year's salary, but they expect a 30 percent increase from the base of the 18th year. Indeed, the government was planning to raise a medical salary on an even larger scale on an historic scale. This just started this year, this year. Based on last year's decision, there will be a wage increase in three steps this year, next year and the following year. Part of the large staircase has already been completed, and the next step awaits in January 2022. Indeed, discussions have been launched to establish the wage balance, which is well representative of peace of work, between nurses and doctors, which should be taken into account in further planning and further wage increases for the workers. They were all thanked by the government, among other things, by the additional payment of HUF 500,000 last year under the pandemic. I'd ask you not to deny that, so consider it. As far as oncological surgery and oncological care are concerned, yes, Hungary kept its door open in health care for all patients who would have been in danger of losing their care would have caused lasting health damage. I hope you agree with me on this, that our medical colleagues, our working colleagues, have proven their maximum standing, have done the work that people expected of them. There are situations where people do not go to the doctor with complaints, and it is true that extra effort is needed to work this out. The Hungarian government is continuing to do so and will do so. And the flat rate was a lifesaver. Hospitals that had been successfully funded on the basis of the number of appendectomies and the number of planned surgeries, if this funding had to be continued in the middle of a Covid supply, when nearly half of the beds were used by covid patients for their care, this was not a suitable structure. This was indicated by the hospitals, and they welcomed and thanked this system. [[12.20]] So you have a very different view of the people in the health care community that they're telling you about. We believe that this was an important tool in our hands, that this source, this money, even if fewer of the patients came to them, we could give it and provide it. The handcuffs and the intimidation. Help us not to commit violations of the law in health care, which means we have to go in handcuffs. They told me yesterday at the OKAY conference, maybe you know, you've heard about the boundaries and laws that those who were led in handcuffs had to break. No one wants to be intimidated, we want a decent job. The Hungarian Medical Chamber is the loudest representative of the fact that it expects decent work from all its members, both morally and ethically, without parasolvency. And the pilot is piloted by the need to try it, to look at its strengths, its weaknesses, to look at the interests of the workers there, and then to make a decision. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-10-20-30	Thank you very much. We will return to the hearing of the opinion of the Members who have asked for the normal word. Congressman Z. Carpathian, here you go.
u2021-10-20-31	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to the sitting State Secretarys for their substantial participation in the debate. It's a rare thing in the Bolshevik state of the house, designed by Fidesz. I definitely welcome you, even if we disagree on a lot of things, obviously. But obviously I will keep the platform for health professionals, and I do not wish to go up there, although I also have subjective ideas about the length of waiting lists, the demographic disaster, which results in the natural flow of underpaid, typically professional, nurses from health care. Of course, I welcome all wage increases, but anyone who claims today that there is no human resources problem in health is not telling the truth. Fortunately, the secretary of state did not say that, so obviously we can agree that the problem exists, but we see and face some pretty harsh things in Hungarian health care. But I promised that I would respond to my colleague Nacha, and although the curtain has already been lifted, it is still here, and I will take advantage of it. The thing is, you said something about you shutting down foreign exchange loans. This, which has stopped the withdrawal of foreign exchange loans, encourages many of us to speak, because here we see that Hungary's Government is very, very combative and has a military voice here in Hungary, but there is no more serene government in Europe when it comes to the service of banks and multinationals. As fake right-wingers, you give up all kinds of national interests and serve the international networks that you seem to be fighting in the media space in an amazing vassal way. I am not far from thinking that you have made a deal with, say, some of the German car manufacturers, where you have agreed to say yes, warlike and loud things, but in return we will give the entire Hungarian labour market in a cheap and flexible way. I can see that coming from you, but I hope someday you'll disprove me that it didn't. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not how it happened!]] However, in order to get to the point, we need to examine the Hungarian government's position on banks, and here I will have concrete questions for the Secretary of State. How is it, my dear Secretary of State, with all due respect, that there is an epidemiological defense fund... we are talking about during the closure debate, who, how much, how effective he spent, I commend you for spending 42 billion on stamp collections, and you tell me that the acquisition of a respirator for 300 billion was a smart decision in this form, so we are having a number-based debate. How is it that in this epidemiological defense fund the parties, municipalities, have deducted taxes from them, apparently the banks have paid, but they can write down the total amount of their tax due in four to five years? So there's only one in Hungary that doesn't pay. The municipality pays, pays the opposition party, even the government party, pays everyone, the banks alone don't pay. How, though, could there be another sacred cow who, on the basis of any aspects of competitiveness, is not to be touched? I would add that last year, we were even discussing a thousand billion-dollar MNB loan framework, which, if used with a four-percent marzz, then again, commercial banks are not doing so badly. So the thing is, you are constantly being nice to the banks and signing a EBRD pact, it is on their website, in a speechable way in English, where you have undertaken not to cause a single HUF of damage to these banks when settling the situation of the victims. So I'd like you to clarify your position, there's something the banking system is asking you to do, and you're not doing it for them. So if you can say that in the last ten years, say, three, Mr. Secretary of State, if you can say five, I'll sit here even more calmly. But the fact is that even the financial transaction fee and, my fellow Member, Nacsa, if you were to press a button, please respond to this, I would be quite moved by it, so the financial transaction fee was not called a tax, because then it would have been a debate with Brussels, but a tax. The banks concerned have also explicitly acknowledged in press releases and letters to customers that this has been passed on to consumers. This affects an annual amount of over HUF 200 billion. After they have acknowledged that this whole thing, even though it was thrown at them, has been beaten down by consumers, I ask you, my fellow Member Nacsa, what you have done. Did they ask for custody, or did they tell them that there might be something to do? Or if they don't want to interfere in their work, are they just interested or did anything? The fact is that this 200 billion-dollar burden, along with the banking sector special tax, has been transferred to all Hungarian consumers, including you, who are sitting here. All those in the expert box paid a few forints because the banks did not pay for this burden, but transferred it to customers. The fact is that we see that they are now being niced to them in a thousand billion-dollar scale, and if we add these together, we understand how the government has reached the so-called currency-credit settlement. I still didn't get an answer from you that if someone took on a foreign currency loan at HUF 155-160, it would turn into a market exchange rate of HUF 256 in the storm. Some Fidesz State Secretarys have tried to say at the beginning that the Curia and the Constitutional Court have appointed the framework for us to move within. Then we asked them to present those frameworks, say, in the form of a legal unit decision or anything else that would have designated this. They couldn't show me that. Obviously, it wasn't the Curia's decision. Let us imagine, however, that, let us say, the Curia is ordering Viktor Orbán to switch at this rate. There is no such thing, so no one gives such orders to Viktor Orbán. The fact is that you have chosen a market-changing forintation for the benefit of the banks, rather than forinting at the rate we proposed at the time of admission. The difference is well over a thousand billion forints. We would have returned this well over a thousand billion to customers with a new foreign exchange-credit clearing law. You fraudulently credited the banks for this, so they basically left part of the prey to the perpetrator, and here you can write big quotes to these sentences, of course. But it doesn't change the point that you let the people's money be taken and credited to the banks' accounts. Let us not now talk about the 18,000 evictions you have sent or assisted, because you have heard this from me many times, but the fact is that Europe does not have such a cruel government that would have allowed it to happen to its own citizens. I am not very familiar with the opposition party, whose representatives would not have come with us during the legal assistance provided at evictions, in their attempts to prevent them; we have somehow not met you. So the warlike, militant tone that may have been thought to suit you in Parliament, that wasn't an act in the field at all. The fact is that they may have thought that the problems of these people have been eliminated, but, my fellow Member, the reality is that the expensive cheating foreign currency loans have become expensive, strangely converted forint loans, and these people have to carry their problems on their backs. A lot of people were forced abroad to pay their debts from the higher wages there. I know you guys don't really meet these people, but imagine the stress of someone, say, taking part in an eight-year-old procedure that might end up being evicted with a family. These people get high blood pressure at first, a lot of people have diabetes, and then their lives can go through the stress that, of course, we can't really imagine in a comfy parliament what it's like to be shaking about where they can take their kids to sleep the next day or what kind of relatives they can sleep with. But this is still happening in Hungary, you cannot say that you have removed any problems in this regard. You can say that in 2001 the spirit was released from the bottle, you can talk about Járai's responsibility, talk about how unilateral treaty amendments went through. Let us, of course, also talk about the oversight failures that led to an unjustified increase and accumulation of credit before 2010. [[12.30]] We will agree on a great deal of things, but not only is the failure of governments after 2010, but their amazing crime cannot be washed away, it cannot be disposed of. This is your party now, your responsibility. You made a deal with the banks. Their false national right-wing governance has become the cruelest government in Europe in this regard. They assisted in evicting a lot of people. Even when they saw the trouble, they didn't give me a hand. The Chamber of Executives negotiated as a market kofa about setting quarterly quotas, how many people can be evicted on a quarterly basis in Hungary, this market bargaining was conducted, and in human lives and the fate of families, the quota dispute that Hungary's Government has been through is measured. They've made him a runaway, destroyed these people. For the lucky ones, they paid off a way out of here, and I'm not even gonna say it was really bad. I say that all Hungarians would have been entitled to the exchange rate at the time of admission. When we look at your relationship with the banks, we can't just walk away from two things. One is that Europe does not have such a self-serving government against banks, financial institutions, and the other is that there is no such cruel government in Europe to assist in evicting tens of thousands of its own citizens. Shame on you for that. At the same time, we have a well-prepared Secretary of State, who I think we can expect substantive and professional answers in terms of the figures that have been said. I do not want to be incorrect, Mr Secretary of State, to my qualifications, and if you take it as an accusation, you do not have to respond to my accusations, but I would very much like you to respond to my factual and numerical questions, because this could lead us closer to starting to patch back up the minimum social safety net in Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-10-20-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, dear Members, we now have a two-minute turn, because many want to express their views in this way. First, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP. Here.
u2021-10-20-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary is gone, but Congressman Retvári is here. The salary increase for health professionals was required by the government in four steps, but on the basis of today's news, the professional representative said that the government did not say that they did not know that the basic salary would be based on the 2018 wage. So, the announced percentage increase, which the government is constantly communicating, is not true. The other is that, in April, the Secretary of State insisted that screening programmes and cancer screening programmes be stopped because the health system is so overloaded. Although politics and the profession also warned the Secretary-General, the EMMI itself, that this would have very serious consequences if the screening programmes were stopped, because exactly what has appeared today is that 15-20 percent of cancer patients do not appear in the system, because they do not know what serious consequences they will have in the next period. We're talking about 5,000 patients who are now ill, but they don't know it yet, because they haven't seen a doctor in the past few years. About how the government finances health care, of course, we have very sharp debates. I am not a health politician, I am on the consumer's side, and I think that all ten million Hungarians living in Hungary are on the consumer's side, whether they are health workers or not. Unfortunately, under Covid, I had the pleasure of seeing what health care was like, and believe me, Mr. Secretary of State, the doctor suffered in the same way, the worker suffered as the patient suffered from the rash, non-professional decisions you made at the time, asked the doctors, asked the patients, and asked the nurses. We just want to keep in mind that this could be done better, and if the budget was closing, we left-wing politicians wouldn't have distributed during the epidemic the resources that many opposition politicians have said before me. Congressman Nacsa is wagging his head, thank God he's not a left-wing politician. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Finally, we agree on something!]]
u2021-10-20-34	Now, for the first time, may I ask Secretary of State Rétvári whether, as a Member, he wishes to respond in two minutes or in any minute on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The second one!]] He won. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your generosity. It is very important that we put this right, Madam honourable Member, because today the left is devoting an entire day's false news campaign to the issue of wage increases for nurses. Let's be clear about what happened, and with a very simple mathematical operation, the addition, you can find out what the false news is on the left today. Indeed, we have agreed with the workers that in this cycle we will increase the wages of nurses and workers by 72 percent in a total of four steps. So the goal is to have a 72 percent increase in this cycle. The first step was an 8 percent increase in 2019, followed by a 14 percent, a 20 percent and the last 30 percent increase. You can see this 30 percent increase in two ways, on the one hand, that this is a 30 percent increase compared to the 2018 wage, but as there was an 8 percent increase, a 14 percent increase and a 20 percent increase, the pay of nurses is now much higher than it was in 2018. Compared to this, the current increase is 21 percent, but if I look at the original agreement when it's concluded, it's a 30 percent increase. So if you add up the 8 percent, 14 percent, 20 percent and 30 percent wage increase, then you get the overall 72 percent wage increase. If, on the other hand, you are looking at only one year, not four years, and you are looking at how much the pay of nurses will increase next year compared to this year, you will see a 21 percent figure, honourable Member. So you can also compare this to the 18, when this agreement was originally concluded, then it's 30 percent, it could be related to this year, that's 21 percent. The big difference, honourable Member, is that when you said you were dealing with a crisis, you took a month's salary from the nurses. They didn't compare, and it wasn't on the plus numbers that there was an 8 per cent, 14 per cent, 20 per cent, or 30 per cent increase in wages, and the difference is that you were there when a visit fee was introduced to provide additional resources for the wages of health workers, while the wages of health workers were reduced. I don't think they've done this in other countries anywhere in the world, to collect visits from people for hire, and then to pay workers less for wages. You did that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Therefore, do not argue that, thank God, in Hungary next year, the cover of the over 700 billion forints that we are going to spend as a surplus for health purposes is not only to pay for doctors, which means a 2-2.5-fold increase in wages, but, in the case of nurses, a 30-percent increase compared to the 18-year wage, and a 21-percent increase compared to this year's wage. This is exactly the amount that we agreed with the workers in 18, as the result of the 8, 14, 20 and 30 percent increase is the 72 percent that we agreed with the workers' representatives to make the wage increase noticeable. And with which you classified defence, honourable Member, the WHO has given the words of appreciation to the Hungarian defence. There was an international, perhaps Japanese, Nikkei statement of how each country defended itself. Hungary is also on the podium. The Hungarian left does not share the opinion of the WHO or this international Japanese comparison, because you are drafting a political opinion and they are drawing up a professional opinion. They measure every country in the world with equal standards, you always classify your own country lower than what is real. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Not our own government, not the country!]] Because for some reason, you always trust your own people in your own country, but try to make them look negative. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-36	Before we go any further, I would just like to say to the Members asking the question that, under our house rules, as the Secretary of State did not apply as a representative, but as a secretary of state, the Secretary of State has applied, so he can speak on behalf of the Government for 15 minutes. It's not a call, don't get me wrong [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Invitation to Waltz!]] It's simply a puritanization of the house rules. Now, we will continue the two-minute round, and Congressman Zoltán Varga, the representative of DK, can speak. Here.
u2021-10-20-37	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I'm so sorry that Madam Secretary is gone, because I'd have to deal with her, too. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You just got here!]] And not just for me, but for the 5,000 cancer patients who have been undiagnosed lately. Secretary of State, you said that we are here to give a political opinion. Allow me to convey a professional opinion to you now, and this is nothing more than the Health Economics Society, at the conference of which the study mentioned by my colleague has been carried out. They said it, and obviously it's a serious, well-founded study. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Obviously!]] , it has been studied that in patients with lung, colon and rectum and breast cancer, the chances of survival, at all, have developed during the covidos period. [[12.40]] And that's where this number came out that about 5,000 patients were left unattended. There it was also noted that there may be a number of patients who are simply not in the focus of the health government, so we do not know how big this number really is. But then I'll give you numbers, which is also said here. We are talking about 1,300 patients with lung cancer, 2,700 patients with colon and rectal cancer and 1,400 patients with breast cancer. Some of these, we know very well, have not only remained unsatisfactioned, but, in recent times, due to precisely the lack of supply, are likely to have deteriorated in health to such an extent that it can kill you. My question would be that, and obviously this is a hypothetical question because, on the one hand, Mrs. Secretary of State is gone, on the other hand, because they are not going to answer anything, and they are going to run away from everything: when are they going to look these people in the eye? For those of you who lied to their faces, otherwise. And every time I look at you, I think of Rodolfo, who told me only to watch my hands, I cheat. We're watching your hands, we're seeing them cheat, and the problem is they're not just cheating, they're lying. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-38	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc next, KDNP, two minutes.
u2021-10-20-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am glad that Dániel Z. Carpathian does not run away from the answer now, as he did in the lead speakerial round, when he quickly fled to the group office when I answered him. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Wow! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Let's go for a run! We'll see how long you last. Can we do a lap on Margaret Island? The president's ringing the bell.]] Countless untruths... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You just asked me to answer, press the button, and the congressman won't let me talk. The honourable Member made many false statements in the speech, but how good it is that today is 20 October, because exactly a year ago we voted here in Parliament to extend the credit moratorium. And imagine how Daniel Z. Carpathian voted. Well, neither Péter Jakab, Ferenc Gyurcsány, nor László Varju, Zoltán Varga, nor Ildikó Bangóné Borbély voted for the extension of the credit moratorium, just as Dániel Z. Kárpát did not vote for the extension of the loan moratorium before the end of the repayment. We would be able to list a number of legislative proposals that we have taken for foreign exchange credentials that Dániel Z. Karpát and the entire Jobbik did not vote for together on the left. At that time, we were amazed and staring at the fact that Jobbik votes with the Democratic Coalition, today this is part of the daily routine, nothing has changed. But when did we disagree with the banks? The Member asked us to list a few questions when we did not shape the government's policy at the request of the banks. For example, regarding the extension of the credit moratorium; for example, the extension of the credit moratorium to overdrafts or credit card interest rates, such as the institution of forinting. From the past period, we can list a number of steps where we have had discussions with either the Banking Association or any of the banks, and we do have to conduct this debate, but we insist on one aspect in this debate: the interests of the Hungarian people. Was it you and your allies who turned the IMF loan into what? 600 billion-dollar bank rescue package. And by saying that László Varju couldn't deny them in one word, he is now ashamed of the era where he gave his name and his vote on what you did and how you tried to save the banks alone, I think it has told me everything about today's debate on the left. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-20-40	Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik, two minutes!
u2021-10-20-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think the budget would go that far towards health care, but I think that this is important for everyone, and a lot of numbers have been said. Among other things, Madam Secretary of State said and, interestingly, she returned in an unusual way, that five thousand doctors had to leave the country before 2010 or, say, the profession or institution of which had ceased. I have missed the voice of Secretary of State in the last two months, when nine doctors, nine specialists and trauma surgeons in Zalaegerszeg hospital have resigned, and then they have tried to find a solution by helping out the Zalaegerszeg hospital at the University of Medicine of Pécs. He was able to direct only one specialist, and after a month, seven of the nine specialists were taken back, and two were not even employed in the county, with no trauma care at the hospital in Keszthely, because the only specialist working there had resigned. Then why didn't the secretary of state raise her voice when these two doctors, who worked in the trauma department thirty years ago, three decades ago, weren't employed in the county? ! Do you know what they did to them? He's been chased into the private sector. Here in Budapest, they work at a private clinic. Where is it that you're on the side of health workers when they're called up to the Home Office for interrogation rather than audition? ! And the Home Office is the Ministry of the Interior! decide how to get a job in the county. Where was the Secretary of State or the Directorate-General when the C.T. of Lipai Hospital had been dead for over two months? National Rescue Service is transporting inpatients from Ajka to Veszprém for a computer tomography test, and you claim that health care is in order. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But I'll continue with the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-42	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament is coming. Here.
u2021-10-20-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I wanted to ask for a two-minute interview with Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, but now that he is gone, the normal comment remains. I would like to respond to that, and I would ask the Secretary of State that you believe what you have said. Either I don't know what to assume, because there are two things: either they're deliberately not telling the truth, or they have no idea what's going on in real life. These two things can be the only thing here, and I find it very shocking when you are talking about the salary increase for nurses and health professionals, Mr. Secretary of State; when nurses, after their former civil servant status has become a health service recompense and they get paid, and they get this ominous wage increase, which you said you said was 20 percent this year, if I remember correctly, the wage increase, and they look at this increase as a result of an average reduction of 53 thousand gross forints. I don't know what you're talking about when that happens. I don't know what you're talking about! And I don't know at all how health professionals at the summit of the Covid epidemic can cut their wages. How do you think you're gonna cut it by a gross HUF 50,000? It's not about 500 thousand or 800 thousand, it's about 200 to 300 thousand forints, and they're cutting their wages by 53 thousand forints. I think this is deeply outrageous, and regularly, not only in health care, but also in other areas, when an Orbán-steering increase comes, it means that when they receive their wages, they realize that the allowances have been abolished, the overnight allowance has been reduced, the overtime allowance is reduced, the money allocated to the SZÉP card or reduced. By the time they get to the end, it turns out that the pay increase meant that you were cutting your wages. It is very nice that communication, to be told everywhere, has been 25 percent wage development in the public administration sector, there has been so much wage development in the health care sector, only after those workers look at it, they realize that they have nothing more to pay, but rather less. I do not know whether this is a deliberate fraud on your part, or that you are not aware of what is happening in Hungarian health care, and I would ask you to be more, but more responsible, on this subject. Don't try to fool people. Obviously, someone who doesn't work in healthcare doesn't know what's going on, and they believe the communication tricks to you, and they won't know what's real in Hungary. The only problem is, you do it in every field. They're trying to trick the entire Hungarian society with communication tricks, and they think people are stupid. And then what? There will be poverty, degradation, degradation. That should change. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-44	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai if he wishes to reflect. As far as I know, yes. [[Peter Benő Banai nodds.]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-20-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let me first thank you for all the contributions and comments that we have heard today regarding the implementation of the 2020 budget. I think that a lot of important and factual statements have been made, and I think that the first statement from the opposition benches was that we could hear a production report, both in the Minister's exposé and in the two introductory words of the Court of Auditors and in the pro-government benches. This has been used by several people, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian has used it several times. Allow me therefore to reflect on this point first. [[12.50]] The Budget Act sets out the macroeconomic projections that the government expects for the following year, building on them how the budget is prepared, and then, in the context of the accounts, we report how the real economic processes and budgetary processes have actually evolved. When we are able to report positive figures in international comparison, this can be classified as a production report, but the facts are stubborn. Moreover, we are talking about facts that are not only included in the draft discharge law before you, but also, if someone looks at, say, the website of the European Union Statistical Office, they will see the factual figures that the Hungarian economy has been negatively affected by the coronal virus epidemic, but the performance of the economy has fallen less than the average of the European Union. If you look at international statistics, you will see that the level of unemployment in Hungary was the lowest among the Member States of the European Union. If you look at international statistics, you will see that the number of people employed is high, has stabilised at more than 4.6 million people, and these figures also show that real wages have increased last year. Why is that relevant? Because the figures also show that the economic downturn in 2020 was higher at global level than the previous downturn in 2009. So what we are talking about here is that last year, at global economic level, there was, again, a bigger crisis than the 2009 situation. From this point of view, I think it is talkative that, while the performance of the Hungarian economy has fallen more than the EU average, the country has suffered this crisis, we have now come out much better, we are coming out of this crisis. To what do we owe this? That's what my second thought is about. Mr Tamás Mellár, professor said that the Hungarian economy is not crisis-resistant, it is not stronger than it was in 2009. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Nonsense.]] I was completely surprised to hear from Professor, and I am very sorry that you did not look at the facts. If, let's say, I only look at economic growth, the Hungarian economy grew by 1 percent in 2008 in the year before the crisis, by 4.6 percent in 2019. The number of people employed was about 3.8 million in 2019, and now, as I mentioned, it was over 4.6 million in 2019. Our external financing capabilities were strongly negative back then, and now it was positive. Household debt was multiples of current debt and, moreover, the household layer was indebted in foreign currency. So I think that, looking at all kinds of numbers, there was a huge difference between the two years, and this is important because in my opinion, the relatively more positive figures of the 2020 accounts are also due to the fact that, yes, in the years before the crisis, the Hungarian economy was able to grow so much stronger that it was more impact-resistant during the current outbreak of the Crown Virus than it was during the 2009 crisis. As regards the evolution of deficit and debt, no one was able to prepare for this coronal virus epidemic, as is the case. When the Honourable Parliament adopted the draft budget law for 2020, we counted on a 1 percent deficit, a declining debt ratio, with 4 percent economic expansion. I would add that if the 2020 budget had been adopted by the Parliament in the last days of December, it would not have been possible to know, since no one knew what kind of epidemic would start and what the consequences would be. With regard to deficit and debt developments, I see that the debt increase is the same as the average debt increase in the European Union, which is around 15 percentage points. I have to argue with Professor Mellar here, too, and he said, in some way, that, in terms of deficit and debt, there have been processes that have not even been under the Gyurcsány government, which has been cited many times. If we look at international statistics again: between 2002-2010 there was not a single year when Hungarian debt-to-GDP ratio did not increase; I repeat: there was not a single year before the crisis. However, after 2011, there was not a single year when the Hungarian debt ratio would not have decreased by the end of 2019, when it reached 65.5 percent. For this reason, I cannot interpret the words that say in an international context that it was the same deficit and debt loss that the Hungarian economic history experienced in the years before 2010. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, at the debt, foreign exchange bond issue, said that the same is happening as in the taking up of the IMF loan. No, it's not the same thing. Before the 2009 crisis, the financing of the Hungarian government debt was very expensive. It was during the period when we were able to sell sovereign debt at interest rates above 10 per cent, and thanks to the state of the Hungarian economy before the crisis, when the crisis struck, we could not finance the Hungarian state, the Hungarian state was unable to finance itself, so it needed the IMF loan. On the other hand, the debt financing seen last year was carried out on a market basis, without external economic policy constraints, and the cost of financing public debt today is much lower than before. Not only has the cost been reduced, but the financing structure has also changed, we have talked a lot about how the foreign exchange rate has decreased to about 20 percent compared to more than 50 percent. I therefore believe that it is not possible to compare in this respect the process of deficit and debt in terms of macroeconomic figures in 2020 with the 2008-09 process. Neither do we, I think, more than the fact that, after the crisis, credit rating agencies have rated the debt of each country, one institution, about 200 times. Of these 200, ten changes were in a positive direction. Between the ten is the step of Moody, who in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic in 2020 provided a positive outlook for Hungarian sovereign debt. I repeat: once again, if we look at how the situation of the Hungarian economy and government measures have been assessed and, as a result, the increase in public debt by market investors, by the credit rating agencies with whom we had many disputes, then again, in an international comparison, the economic policy that the government has conducted has been accepted and even supported. This is also due to the fact that the green bond issue or other sovereign financing mentioned in the comments could have been achieved with a significant additional demand. Let me then respond, as a next thought, to the measures taken by the government in the year 2020, in addition to macroeconomic figures. Again, there were some rather serious findings, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpád said that neoliberal cruelty marked the measures, the government did nothing for the families. László Varju, Chairman of the Budget Committee, said that spending money was not for the benefit of the people. Well, then allow me to say specifics here again. Several people have mentioned that we should have spent more money on employment support. Undoubtedly, the economic policy of this government was different from that of many Western European countries, and it was different from what you suggested from the opposition benches. You said that even without work, much of the wages should be provided as support by the government. The government, on the other hand, said that work must be provided primarily, that income should be paid in addition to work, as it also helps to keep the individual and, secondly, contributes substantially to economic growth. Several people mentioned what the rate of wage support was in Western Europe, for example in Austria. I would like to draw the attention of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to the fact that consumption of households in Austria has also decreased by more than 8 percent; I repeat: more than 8 percent to the west of the Lajta. [[13.00]] The EU average was around 7.5 percent, and we had a 2 percent decline. Why? Because we were able to maintain the level of employment and provide work for people. Of course, some have lost their jobs. This virus, this epidemic, has put certain sectors in an almost impossible position. In the tourism sector, it was necessary to shut down overnight, shut down accommodation facilities, hotels and other institutions. Of course, in these areas, the government also provided wage support to keep jobs, and we contributed to the salaries of hundreds of thousands of people. However, the main direction was to do so by investing in helping businesses through this difficult period and reducing taxes. I do not understand the comments that were made about the fact that the state did not help people, because, I repeat, it turns out that it directly helped to keep hundreds of thousands of people in the workplace, and that we have achieved a very high level of international investment. Public investment expenditure reached 6.4 percent of GDP, and private investment at European level in top 3, I recall, was the second place in 2020. The comments that this meant only a small amount of resources, for example, I would like to draw attention to the fact that János Kóka's former Minister's company received the same support as everyone else who met the normative conditions. As regards helping people, it was very specific here when Mr Tamás Harangozó said anti-human policy and then mentioned the areas of health and education. My apologies, it is peculiar because if you, from opposition benches, compare the current situation with the previous crisis, like Professor Mellar, for example, this anti-human action gets a very specific tone. Mr Bell, I repeat, you mentioned health and education in relation to anti-human policy. We know very well that in health care, in education, as in other public sector employees, the wages of employees fell during the previous crisis in 2008-2009. On the other hand, in 2020, as Deputy Minister Rétvári said, the wages of nurses and nurses increased by 14 percent from 1 January, by 20 percent from November. Education. Crisis or no crisis, teachers' wages rose by 10 percent last year. Retirements. Congressman Bell said that we asked you to give money to pensioners when there was trouble. Well, I don't know if the congressman said that a long time ago to the then governmental actors. What I can tell you is that, despite the crisis, pensions have preserved their real value. We know that, thanks to the performance of the economy in the years before 2020, it is possible to pay an open pension premium, and I can tell you once again that, based on the data we have so far, every person receiving pension and pension benefits will receive an unprecedented pension premium of HUF 80,000 in November this year, and we hope that pension premium will also be paid in 2022. So what the government was able to do in 2020 is to preserve the real value of pensions. It is especially special to me that when Mr Harangozó mentioned pensioners, he then said that there is not only a material but also a spiritual aspect of supporting pensioners, and immediately afterwards he criticized the resources allocated to the churches. I do not know, let us say, what is the opinion of Mayor Péter Márki-Zay, who has been supported by him, Mr. Prime Minister-designate. However, let me say that, if the Member has mentioned the spiritual aspect, on the one hand, that, with the support of investments, we can provide jobs for all those who are involved in the investment, whether it be a church or an investment in sports or other infrastructure. But in addition to that, let us allow the success of the International Eucharistic Congress, in view of the hundreds of thousands involved, to be said by a government, backed by the support of the Christian Democratic People's Party, to support the Christian people who pay taxes, and I think that it is worth seeing in church support how many jobs it has created, preserved, and what kind of spiritual aspect it has. I repeat, this was highlighted by Congressman Tamás Harangozó. As regards the specific measures, for municipalities, a number of people have said that in 2020, municipalities were burdened with excessive burdens. Congresswoman Anett Bősz said that, in addition to the transfer of the car tax, the municipalities were also subject to other burdens. There is no doubt that the burden of the 2020 crisis could not be passed on to the corona virus. Everyone had to be a part of it. I would like to express my thanks to everyone who participated in this, including the parties, because the support of the parties has also provided one of the cover for the protection against the epidemic, even if it was symbolic, in comparison with the total expenditure. Local governments also had to take part in the defence. What I can tell you is that the majority of the burden was borne by the government both in terms of health protection and in terms of expenditure of an economic nature. Of course, local authorities also suffered the fall in business tax revenues, but overall, we were able to maintain the stability of local authorities last year. We have data from the local authorities' own accounts. On this basis, I can tell you that the amount of the local government account in the commercial bank account increased in 2020 compared to the end of 2019. It did not decrease, but increased by tens of billions of forints. In addition, I repeat, of course, all municipalities are affected by the action against the coronal virus epidemic. But I must also say that the government has also provided assistance in one area by keeping the funding system set by the Parliament by 2020. And yes, there were individual subsidies here, I have to say that we see among the individual grants the individual government help of the city of Miskolc, the city of Eger, or the city of Pécs, for example, so I cannot agree with the statement that only mayors and cities with pro-government support would have received government help. As far as functional expenditure is concerned, on the other hand, it has been said that the operation of the State was expensive in 2020 and that the scope of the State's operating expenditure has increased. I would like to highlight three things here. On the one hand, the closing accounts show the issuance of all institutions of a state nature, such as the Parliament's expenditures or the expenditure of bodies independent of the government. Several items have increased, and the salaries of its representatives have also increased, for everyone, because average wages, viral situations have increased, for example, the salaries of honourable Members of Parliament have also increased. The second thing is that in these public operational expenditures there is also the area of financial expenditure and services, and here we see a significant increase. Why? For example, the State-owned Eximbank launched a number of loan schemes in response to the virus situation, of which thousands of companies benefited from a loan with a favourable interest rate, and this programme was linked to a public capital increase. So I'm gonna need you to look into the state's operating expenses and see the details. And the third thing is strictly about the operation of the government. [[13.10]] What I can tell you here is that in 2020, in response to the virus situation, the government's operating expenditure, other than personnel expenditure, was reduced by the government, so the first step was the government's own private savings. The resources thus saved have been transferred to health control purposes against the epidemic and to economic protection purposes. Several people have mentioned the state's expenditure, sometimes incorrectly, so allow me to repeat: not only nominally, as Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa rightly recalled, but also increased expenditure on education, health and social security and welfare expenditure in proportion to GDP. It is therefore incorrect to conclude that in 2020 the government would have saved any resources in those areas of education, health or social security. Allow me to respond to a few specific cases. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát responded to the suggestion made by Mr Nacsa Lőrinc about the banks. I would add that in 2020, the banks had to contribute to the control of the epidemic. You are right, Mr President, that there was a one-off extra payment that could be written off of the subsequent tax liability, but I think it is much more important than this item that, with the instrument of the credit moratorium, hundreds of thousands of families and many businesses were able to help by the government and the central bank, and indeed the burden had to be borne by the banking system. So I would ask you to note that this is a loss of tens of billions of forints. Why? Because the banks had to pay the payments and expenses, if a depositor requested the funds, the payment was made by the bank, as appropriate, but on the other hand, there was no income from the repayment of the loans granted. So this process meant a loss of tens of billions of HUF in the banking system. Thank God, not only the Hungarian economy, but the Hungarian banking system has just been so stable, so stable, in contrast to the situation in 2009, that it was able to solve this from its own capital, from its own resources. As regards the comments on the Hungarian National Bank and the professional loan of the Hungarian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, which Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát and Mr László Varju spoke about, let me say on the one hand that it is an independent institution, it is perfectly natural that there are policy issues in which we disagree, but I think that in 2020 there was maximum cooperation and partnership between the two organisations. For the crisis caused by the coronal virus, the two institutions together moved a sum of about 30% of GDP. One part of this was the moratorium, and it is due to this significant series of measures at international level that we are able to report today that the performance of the Hungarian economy exceeded the pre-crisis level, with a total of nine to ten countries in Europe who can say that about themselves. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank didn't give a source to commercial banks, it was the NHP Go! Through a programme for businesses, the commercial banking sector, of course, was an intermediate organisation. The Hungarian National Bank, like the European Central Bank or other banks, was involved in sovereign debt financing, so I think that the cooperation between the two main economic policy organisations, the central bank and the government, was necessary in order to be able to report results to you now. Finally, let me say that there are specific items on which Members have drawn attention. I think the answers can be read from the thousands of pages of documents. I agree that there is still a task ahead of us; of course, it is possible to wonder what it was like to do differently last year, where more resources could have been provided, where less could have been provided, but let me draw attention to the main message of the closing account. The main message is that the government has used the option provided by the Fundamental Law to mobilise all resources to help businesses and families in the spirit of so-called countercyclical economic policy. He did this with tax cuts and extra expenses. Thanks to these, we were able to maintain a high level of employment, maintain that wages are increasing at national level, and therefore we have good hope that the growth path that marked the Hungarian economy until 2019 will also be realised from 2021 to the coming years. It is therefore due to the 2020 measures that we can expect a significant economic expansion this year, and I trust that this increase will be able to continue with all the problems, difficulties and challenges ahead of us in the coming years. With these thoughts, I thank you for your attention, and I also recommend the adoption of the legislative closing act later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-20-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate will follow on the bill amending legislation on health, health insurance and pharmaceutical matters as well as related legislation for legal harmonisation and other purposes until closure. The government referral is T/17278. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Horváth, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources. Madam Secretary, please.
u2021-10-20-47	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Honourable Members, With the legislative package, we would like to carry out a number of legislative harmonisation tasks, a few points of law, and a mandate for the creation of regulations. Let me be the first to highlight one of the important and perhaps final stages of the long process relating to the provisions of the new EU medical regulation, which entered into force on 25 May 2017, which provides for a full application of in vitro, extra-body diagnostic and medical devices as from 26 May 2022. The EU Regulation is directly in force and does not require transposition, but it is necessary to comply with procedural rules, such as concepts, procedures and even references, which are not regulated by the Regulation in the Member States. As regards medical devices, which are not used in vitro but on human or non-human devices themselves, we have already done so as from 26 May 2021, in the current package we intend to take this for in vitro medical devices, i.e. non-body devices or for body fluids testing. It is perhaps important to know that a transitional period will be established on the basis of the Directive, and that by 27 May 2024 the instruments already certified can be placed on the market so that they can provide continuous care properly. The other area I would like to highlight is the close community of practice, which was mentioned earlier in the debate. We want to give power to the government to regulate and regulate the activities, cooperation and coordination of cooperation of the Praxis communities. The other area, which is also strongly linked to basic care and prevention, is the granting of the necessary authorisation for the establishment of a regulation on nutrition rules for diet food establishments and for the certification of mass caterers. In the legislative package there is an important support for the process now under emergency regulation and initiated by residents. The fact that residents have the right to obtain, after the examination which forms part of their vocational training, the activity they provide evidence of their competence through a partial examination is authorised to do so on their own. The bill has been adopted and included in the legislation adopted by the Hungarian Chamber of Pharmacy, which takes into account patient safety considerations, which aims to ensure that patients are served safely with medicinal products and are protected from approaches that have now been observed in the operation of parcel services, as we know in other places. [[13.20]] Finally, let me mention that this bill also includes a proposal for amendments to the social law. Under the current provision, as is well known, institutions providing temporary accommodation for elderly, disabled, addicted or psychiatric patients have their current operational arrangements until 31 December 2022. After that date, they should be transformed into permanent housing institutions or subsidised housing forms. Despite the fact that the law provided a long period of preparation, social institution supporters providing temporary care have in recent years indicated several obstacles and risks to our wallets, which we have considered to make the decision to abolish the rule imposing a transformation obligation. If the proposal is adopted, institutions providing temporary benefits may continue to operate unchanged after that date. I ask this House to support T/17278. Bill No. 1. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-20-48	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. It's the lead speaker's round. First, we can listen to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Imre Pesti. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Madam Secretary of State has pretty much summarized what T/17278 is all about. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council on behalf of the European Economic and Social Committee. This can be seen as a salad law, since it concerns a number of questions. I would like to start by talking about the social issue, the fact that in December 2016 there was a regulation requiring that institutions providing care for certain institutions, in particular elderly, disabled, addicted or psychiatric patients, should be transformed by 31 December 2022. The continuous analysis and monitoring revealed that five years had passed, and the transformation of these institutions did not take place at the same pace as it should have been, and a lot of feedback has even been received from the government that there is much more difficulty and danger of transformation than the expected result. Therefore, the government has decided to repeal this particular law from 1 January 2023. I would like to note that this is a wisdom on the part of the government. A kind of regulation was born with stakeholders, but in the implementation of the regulation it turned out that there was much more negative than positive. He had the courage to tell the government that we would no longer carry this out, or that the law on this matter would be revoked. Madam State Secretary spoke about the new medical regulation. Indeed, this is an EU regulation that we need to adopt automatically. But there are some procedural rules that need to be complied with. That's what this law is really about. The 1997 CLIV. The amendment of the law is the following, the essence of which is exciting. In particular, the part with a higher education degree relates partly to health professionals and partly to doctors and residents. The point is that whether it is a professional, auxiliary staff, doctors or residents, they take examinations during the course of the training, they gain certain competences while they are on the move, and with these competences they are able to participate in the healing process independently and responsibly. Professionals with a higher education degree may also work on their own. This serves the kind of trend to enable professionals, doctors, nurses or highly qualified people with a higher education degree to perform more and more independent tasks. This is, by the way, a normal agenda in the Western world, and it also works effectively, cost-effectively and effectively in health care. It is also the 1997 CLIV, which provides regular catering. There is a kind of change in law. The point is that service providers that provide catering services and also have serious dietary dietary dietary obligations should acknowledge that if they cannot comply with this, the possibility must be provided that if the family is involved in this, because the provider cannot provide it, then the family must have every opportunity to provide this kind of additional service. The issue of safe distribution of medicines has also been discussed by the Secretary of State. Indeed, there are more and more problems with drug expediation with the mailing service. Pharmacy is not like Tesco business, I go in, I buy the goods, and then I come out here, because I'm giving out a product that needs to be brought to the attention of the customer's patient to take, use, and side effects, which is why it's extremely important to be provided by a professional. Obviously, this kind of security cannot be created through a parcel delivery service, or only extremely incompletely, so a strong limitation of this can be supported. The practice community has already come up. I would add that this is not a whole new issue, since there was already a kind of project in relation to the practice communities between 2001 and 2003. It had positive results. It is obvious that we are talking about a completely different health situation, and a project evaluation takes many, many years. One thing we know for sure is that the practice community, if required by doctors, can provide an additional service that can, on the one hand, increase the definition of locally defined care if there are appropriate doctors in the practice and, on the other hand, reduce outpatient care and hospital care, and the patient will be provided with the closest care to his home if it really is permanent care. I can say, too, by joining the Secretary of State, that I strongly recommend the adoption of the salad law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-20-50	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Rig, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here.
u2021-10-20-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The first main moment of the salad law before us, which surprises many of us, is that Zsolt Semjén was Deputy Prime Minister. I think that the submission of a health salad law, especially, which deals with several points and discusses the multiple relationships of health care, would have been subject to EMMI. It is also important to highlight this because there are a lot of legislation on which we do not have to argue much. For example, there is domestic legislation that also complies with EU legislation, the adequacy of in vitro devices in 2022. However, I think that there are a lot of things left out that we should mention when it comes to medical aids. Today, in Hungary, I think that every shop dealing with the distribution of medical aid is faced with the problem of the state financing of prescription medical aids, whether it is crutches, wheelchairs, toilets, which the state supports through NEAK, has not changed for several years, but the trader pays multiples for this. If the wholesale price of a bathroom is HUF 15,000, the state will only fund HUF 10 000, and if the patient goes there and submit the recipe, the trader will lose HUF 5 000. Many traders and such shops have already contacted the state by regulating the change in funding at a legal level, otherwise these stores will close down and they will not be able to serve the patients, and a lot of service providers choose not to give out these aids so that they do not have any loss. [[13.30]] The practice community. It would now fully regulate the responsibilities and responsibilities of the practice communities and how they will function. I think that most of these, at least the salad law, should not have been regulated at regulation level, because we are going to vote for a blank cheque, or we are going to abstain, or we are not going to vote for it, because the content is the important thing to fill out the legislation, and unfortunately, these contents are the ministerial regulations that politicians and opposition representatives do not see, but only after the ministerial decree has been issued. And let's learn from our mistakes. When this House voted in favour of health status, it was then faced with ministerial regulations that led to the pitfalls for health workers that 5,000 health workers had left this system. Let's not give ourselves another setback like this. So please, Madam Secretary of State, do not regulate at ministerial level, or, if that is the idea, those starting points and cornerstones are already being said here in this House about the direction in which this ministerial level of regulation is going. For example, there is the establishment of competence levels for those with higher education qualifications, workers and workers. I understand that there are a lot of doctors missing from the system, and I understand that we are trying to replace GPs with paramedics, and that is not even a professional problem, because a well-trained paramedic can perform medical tasks at the emergency level. I ask myself that these levels of competence will be required for certain medical activities, whether they give these competences to higher education, college-bound, qualified health care workers, acquiescence these competences, or possibly even include a nurse with a higher education qualification, a OKJ exam, let's say, which has not been approved so far, can carry out catheterization of a male patient, or can start a transfusion, self-implanting and injecting veins. Here, unfortunately, we are all going to see that the replacement of doctors in the field of both general medical and other manual professions is very difficult, and they are trying to pass these competences on to medical workers with higher education, which, if we are trying to do a western European example, I would even say that it can be accepted, only that Western European example should be combined with other examples, let us say, here on the financing side, so that a paramedic, a medical worker with higher education, should have the same salary as, say, the resident or health worker in England who performs this function. After all, the Hungarian patient is worth as much as an English patient or a German patient or a Swiss patient, with the same technical procedures and the same levels of intervention the medical worker must have for the care of that patient. If we assign the wages of health professionals, whether it is secondary or higher education, we give them competence, because if we give them competence, we give them wages, not just tasks, but also wages, then that is acceptable, so we take a great burden off the medical community, which, I say again, still has a great hiatus. However, the most problematic thing is, in my opinion, and what we have talked very little about, even at a justification level, is the safe supply of medicines. After all, for a sentence here, the legislator has tried to regulate this whole system, and they refer to the pharmaceutical chamber to ensure that it is safe to issue pharmaceuticals, which can be agreed with. But, please, we haven't listed a lot of other institutions where we can get these drugs, non-prescription drugs, not just in the pharmacy, so if we go to a drugstore, we can buy dietary supplements, we can buy painkillers, we can buy antipyretics, and we can buy other drugs. But if we go to a gas station, we'll find painkillers and antipyretics in various packages. So if we insist that only a pharmacist can give out drugs, then I'm not entirely sure if, say, a drugstore store is a pharmacist, or, say, a gas station is always on call with a pharmacist or a pharmacy assistant who can release these products. I have only one idea: there was a market gap here, there was a market gap, a pharmacy network realized that a lot of people order all kinds of things on the Internet, order color television, order a cooler, but now they're ordering medicine, and, in many cases, even when we introduced the e-recept, we helped, because we reduced the contact between the patient and the doctor, we didn't have to go to the doctor, we just had to pick up the phone, doctor, write down my usual medication, and then Valika, my neighbor or daughter, will replace the contact between the patient and the pharmacist, not even with prescription medicines. So if we refer to the fact that the safety of the medicinal product is compromised if the patient and the pharmacist or the pharmacy assistant does not meet, it is already damaged by prescription medications, as I think that 50 percent of the patients do not see patients, only relatives or neighbors, because according to the farm number, if they show their identity card, they can replace even prescription drugs. There's nothing here but an economic rift, a very good gap found by one of the pharmacy companies, and he took advantage of it, and maybe someone doesn't like it. In case we didn't forbid it because there's a complete ban now, but we'd wait a few weeks, a few months, and we'd try to regulate it, I think it'd be good for everyone, and all the other pharmacy would wake up, oops, there's such a market gap, let us do it, and let us do it. I mean, the infection numbers are rising again. Or do we want patients to show up at the pharmacy again? After all, the relationship between a patient and a pharmacist was discussed, even in the presentation and in the justification of the pharmaceutical chamber. Do you want the patient to go to the pharmacy and make contact with a patient? Or the patient doesn't meet the pharmacist, but the neighbor will get it for him. Then again, you're violating the patient's rights as a justification for the pharmaceutical chamber. As far as medicines are concerned, I think that I am putting forward an amendment to withdraw this and try to rethink this, because the justification itself does not hold up, I repeat once again. After all, if the secretary of state goes out of Parliament and goes into the nearest DM, she can buy painkillers and antipyretics. And once again, most of this online order doesn't apply to those newly tested drugs, but it's always found in the home pharmacy, but it's been running out of medicines for use, let's say Algopyrin, Rubophen, Nurofen, that if the child doesn't have any Panadol syrup, it goes out to these, which has been tested for several years, and whether the patient or the child isn't allergic. Regardless of whether the patient goes to the pharmacy and asks the pharmacist for a non-prescription medicine, he is not yet aware that he is sensitive to the medicine, it will be revealed when he takes it at home, and once again this is not only in case of an online order, but when he appears in person. The other thing is very, very much lacking in it, and what has been missing from all the salad laws so far and allow me, Madam Secretary, to draw your attention once more to this fact, that health workers have been saying this career model for several years. It's nothing else, it's just a projection of how the health worker, when he gets into the system, will complete the school, then what he can expect in five years, what his salary will be, what he can expect in ten years' time, what extra benefits this health worker will receive in five to ten years' time, what additional opportunities he will get from the system, such as, say, a bus driver, a railway worker, a policeman, since everyone has the opportunity to get benefits other than his wages: holiday, free travel, in medicine, for example, a little protection to get around waiting lists, or to get him into an institution where he is immediately available. I should have answered them in my opinion, but the most worrying, I think, is that we should try this at regulation level, and in my opinion it would be better that even if we tried to regulate them at regulation level, we should look into this regulation, what is the idea of the legislator, what is the direction in which he is going, what are the competences, where it is important to give a medical student or a vein insurance, because the level of competence can accommodate both of them. [[13.40]] Then the pay cut, which, unfortunately, was left out of the previous bill. The best comparison: both health workers perform the same job, one with a gross wage of HUF 1 million and the other with a gross salary of HUF 380 thousand. This is the paramedic and the paramedic. There's no difference between the two, there's only one difference five years ago that anesthesis, which means an induction anesthesia, couldn't be done by an ambulance officer. It is now possible for RSI competence to do so. However, the pay gap between the two classes is enormous: a paramedic is gross of HUF 1 million, a paramedic is gross of HUF 380,000. The responsibility is the same, the competence is the same, and the wages are tripled on one side. Does the Ministry have a solution to that? I mean, Madam Secretary, can you support us in taking safe medical care out of this bill and not trying to impose a ban, but a regulation?
u2021-10-20-52	Thank you very much. The next speaker was the lead speaker of KDNP, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to clarify this question to Lajos Rig, as a Member of Parliament, that the Hungarian government is submitting legislative proposals; the government is led by the Prime Minister and the general deputy is signing the bill. If you look at the presentation, it is there that Dr. Miklós Kásler is a rapporteur, Minister of Human Resources, because he also has the responsibility for professional development. That is why the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office is not sitting, let's say, on this bill, but the Secretary of State of the EMMI. So this is the legal process you've been trying to put into political space here. That's right, take it, Congressman. [[Lajos Rig: I accept. I don't accept all the rest.]] The EMMI has drawn up the law and presented it here to us before the National Assembly. I am pleased that, for example, the Member has acknowledged our efforts to raise wages in the last few years, and that we have the results. You will never hear from us on the one hand, because it would not be true, and on the other hand, because we do not think that we are satisfied with anyone's current level of pay, we are working to constantly raise and raise wages for everyone. For example, in the 2022 budget, which has already been adopted, HUF 2884 billion will be available for health purposes. This is 1700 billion forints more than the last socialist budget in 2010. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély always shakes his head because he cannot accept this truth... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I didn't move my head by chance.]] That's in my words. It is 1700 billion HUF higher than in 2010, in the budget submitted by the last Socialist Government, and 770 billion HUF higher than the funds provided this year. Compared to 2010, the government spends nearly two and a half times as much on health care. The highest rate of wage growth has been achieved in health care. I would like to add once again that wage development should continue to be continued, but, compared to 2010, the amount of resources spent on health wages will increase nearly fourfold next year. Next year there will be some HUF 745 billion more funding for healthcare workers than in 2010. I do not wish to go into the details that Madam Secretary of State has already listed, and I would like to say a few words here on the social institutions, since institutions providing temporary accommodation for elderly people, disabled people, addicts or psychiatric patients under the social law adopted earlier in 2016 have been authorised to operate until 31 December 2022, and after the transformation of the institutions concerned, they can continue to provide care within the framework of permanent housing arrangements or assisted housing. The transformation obligation did not apply to night shelters or temporary shelters for homeless persons. (Attila Móring József Takes over the notary seat. ) In the year 2020, I think that the Ministry has also wisely used the time of the pandemic to carry out a general survey among social institutions, how this transitional period takes place, where it is held, what stages have been completed, and how many institutions have managed to make the transition. In consultation with the maintenance staff involved, it was possible to see whether the plans were planned or the obstacles that arose, that it would create a disproportionate difficulty for social institutions' maintainers to fulfil the transformation obligation and that there was a high degree of uncertainty on several issues. And a significant part of the institutions involved has not been transformed to this day. So, of course, the current bill is correct in my view, and as my fellow Member Imre Pesti said, this was a brave and smart decision. At the same time, it is necessary, as a transitional rule, to determine, in my view, that, for the duration of the number of seats adopted prior to the transformation, the institutions for which the transformation obligation has already been or has already been completed, will be deemed to be admitted to the financing system by virtue of the power of the current law. Thus, those who are already transformed will not suffer any disadvantage, but will be able to continue to operate under the same conditions and adequate funding for their place of residence. Like the Fidesz fraction, the KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-10-20-54	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is the lead speaker of the MSZP, she can speak.
u2021-10-20-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I would like to begin with my colleague Nacsa by constantly referring to how much we spent in 2010 and how much we are spending now: then I would say to you that the price of petrol in 2010 was 296 forints, in January, and the exchange rate of the euro was 265 forints. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Let's see how much gas...]] We should also know how much inflation and the rest have been, and how much money is worth now if we recalculate back to 2010; just to nuance this image a little bit, as you say. The salad law before us; with which my fellow Member Nacsa finished, I would like to start with the 1993 III Act on Social Administration and Social Benefits. by amending the law. This will allow transitional institutions to operate not only until the end of 2022, as several maintainers have indicated, however, that the fulfilment of the transformation obligation by 2023 would cause disproportionate difficulties. When considering maintenance signals, the author amends the provision. In fact, it's about the government turning back on an earlier decision. It shall also explain this in detail. The reason for this provision was to make the use of profile cleaning and services more flexible by continuing to provide temporary care to beneficiaries in permanent housing arrangements, with a fixed-term agreement. With the repeal of the regulation, it is also necessary not to bring into force the provisions repealing the regulation of institutions providing temporary placement from 1 January 2023 in order not to put at a disadvantage the institutions for which the transformation is already under way when the obligation to convert is lifted. It is necessary to lay down as a transitional rule that, for the duration of the number of seats accepted prior to the transformation, they are deemed to be adopted by law. In essence, the measure taken in 2016 would have eliminated the transitional institutions from 2023, with the exception of the temporary accommodation of night shelters and homeless persons, but now, at the end of 2021, they will withdraw from this. That leaves the current structure. Those who have already begun the transformation have made this provision that they are considered to be accepted into the financing system. So, essentially, the government recognises that they made a wrong decision in 2016 and thereby amend this part of the salad law. This also raises the question of why it has not been possible to prepare for the planned amendments in five years. I would like to mention once again what I said in the closing statement debate that the restructuring of the basic supply, as Mrs Secretary of State said, was the adoption of the basic supply law in 2015, but unfortunately, it was not until 2021 that the laws were defined at the regulation level; as a criticism, I said what the State Secretariat had done for six years. Basically, the fact that the practice communities are being created and which of the three versions will be chosen by the general practitioners, I have also discussed a great deal with my own general physician: it has caused very, very many problems to the general practitioners, and what I have said before will not solve the lack of a doctor, which will not end. [[13.50]] Communicating will eliminate the number of GP districts that are not empty. After that, the Fidesz government will be able to communicate: see a miracle, we solved all the problems, instead of 500, there are only 200 empty GP districts, but the basic problem, the fact that almost a million people don't have a home doctor, it won't solve it. Moreover, the fact that we see that most of the general practitioners have chosen the loosest practice community, and it will come to pass that those who have chosen the closest cooperation will have to choose a leader. One of the hardest things you know about this system is that those who have worked alone for, say, 20 to 30 years to go into a community like this, choosing leaders. These doctors have been faced with a rather difficult task, regardless of the fact that the profession has acknowledged that the establishment of the practice communities should be a necessary step, I just think what we always say as a criticism, that we should negotiate with the profession, and that if they have negotiated, we must achieve what the profession says. The MOK, when they sat down for the wage negotiations, and they kept communicating that the doctors' wage increases were made after consulting with the MOK, only after that it turned out that a lot of things became clear to the doctors that they didn't, and they didn't find out that, and they didn't get that, the nugget, the conductivity... and in addition, in the days, there was news that, let's say, a health worker couldn't rent his property if he didn't get permission from the directorate general. So, these tiny little details came back months later or six months later, and the medical staff found out that this is causing a lot of tension, and I'm telling you, that's exactly what health care doesn't need. One is many, if such a problem arises, let alone when it is still stacked. Exactly, when a man leaves health care, we say he can't go on because he can't, I think that the advice we give or recommend to opposition representatives, and we agree with the profession, we talk to doctors, we talk to nurses... and I always say that as a consumer, if you can say that, I feel it on my own skin, and citizens can feel it. I think that we have something to do in health care, and this law because we keep seeing rules being made, the laws being amended, and then 3-4-5 years later, it turns out that what they voted on needs to be changed again, so we can only vote for it with abstentions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-10-20-56	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK's lead speaker is coming.
u2021-10-20-57	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Dear Secretary of State, The truth is, I'm a little bit surprised right now. Allow me, for one paragraph, to talk about the provision for the conversion of institutions providing temporary accommodation. I was surprised that, in fact, if I interpret it correctly, my fellow opposition Members made it very clear that this provision was unthinkable, that it was not agreed with the professionals, but that you admit it, well, frankly, it is a rare genre for you. And obviously with the current bill or salad law, all you're doing right now is trying to save the living. However, let me also talk about an issue that I have not heard many words about in this House in the context of the current debate, and this is nothing more than the provision on nationalisation of fertility clinics. If the government decides to buy the offered fertility centre, then it will be valid on 31 December 2020. [[He's using his hand to quote.]] It pays the market price established by an independent expert. It is memorable, you know very well that this has shocked not only the institutions and the parties, because in Hungary the government has virtually forbidden the operation of private fertility clinics. The majority of Parliament's pro-government in the summer then voted in favour of the bill with record speed, which, although it would only enter into force from 1 July 2022, will have its effect much earlier. I think that's pretty much what everyone knows, because from 30 September this year, no new intervention can be initiated at the clinics involved. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And why the move was actually necessary would actually be good to know, because it hasn't been completely clear since then. Gergely Gulyás, Head of the Prime Minister's Office and Katalin Novák, Minister of Family Affairs, argued that the decision would make it more transparent to finance clinics, and that Minister Gulyás accused the institutions of using state resources, which, let's face it, was a baroque exaggeration, since none of these working private clinics used or received state aid. Then, in recent months, it has been remarkably quiet, so it is not yet known that there will be any loophole for the institutions concerned to continue their activities, even if only in the state system. Since the government's nationalisation in 2019, there have already been three institutions in the country, which is a private body for flask treatment. There are, of course, other institutions besides them, but they are only inseminations. However, for the sake of historical loyalty, it is appropriate to mention that according to experts, in Hungary, the treatment, but also the necessary medicines, are free of charge, which, of course, is not only a great advantage, but also a help to couples wishing to use it. However, despite all of this, I would like to draw attention to a very interesting process, where private institutions have to pay a greater amount for care, which we know, and yet hundreds of people decide every year that they do not want to enter the public system. There are obviously several reasons for this, including the fact that public institutions have a long waiting list. It may also be that care in public institutions is not something that hits the level that is important for these couples; or even that in private clinics there are several treatments available in parallel. And we know very well that private care is chosen by those who have already exhausted the five free attempts financed by Hungarian public health care. However, one thing is certain according to the experts, and it is that the person who chooses private care in Hungary cannot then be persuaded to return to public care. It is no coincidence that more and more of the potential clients of the private clinics today decide that they do not want to know this very well from uncertain conditions in Hungary, and then I will also talk about it, but rather they will look abroad for a place where not only the legal framework is more predictable, not only the quality of these services, but also these legal frameworks are more affordable for them. And as you know, we have received many such signals, that applications from Hungary have multiplied in fertility clinics in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, since the government banned the operation of private institutions in Hungary by the law adopted this summer. Otherwise, the foreign centers, as a good farmer, as a good entrepreneur, are preparing for this attack, more and more places are expanding not only the Hungarian speaking staff, but also the marketing budget, and the vector of their marketing campaign is often directed towards Hungarian users. And according to the doctors, Hungarian couples do not cross the border just because of the unattainable procedures at home. Many do not want them or their embryos, their unborn children, to have anything to do with the Hungarian state supply system. And, as I have just said, I think it is absolutely necessary that, in addition to the concrete comments that have been made to the bill in the debate above, we should also talk about the overall assessment of the health situation, because it should be said that it is almost only thanks to health care workers' standing and that for many of the time now, thanks and thanks are due to what has been done in the past period, that the already overloaded and eviscerated healthcare system has not completely and spectacularly collapsed in Hungary, as a result of the coronal virus epidemic. [[14.00]] We know that very well, because you know this very well, there are a lot of things that could be mentioned here: lack of doctors, shortage of professionals, emigration, closed classes, underfunded hospitals, patients who are terrified that they will become even sicker in the hospital. We know very well how that belief spreads, and we have not been able to deny that anyone who goes to the hospital may not be coming out of there. This is the Hungarian health care today, which, I must add, is the most centralized in the European Union. I would also like to point out that, while government spending on its own has increased sharply during crisis management, we now know the figures that even in the crisis, the EU average has not been reached. Here was the closing report in the previous presentation, let me say a few figures: the 2020 accounts show that last year the state spent a total of HUF 5215 billion on bureaucracy, justice, police, defence, which increased by a thousand billion in one year. Even before the crisis, Hungary had one of the most expensive governments and government administrations in the EU, since in 2019 an average of 5.8 percent of GDP was spent for this purpose in the EU, while in Hungary, your government already spent 9 percent on the same purposes, running the state. Last year, even this number increased significantly, and now the state spends 10.9 percent of gross domestic income on itself, i.e. 11 forints out of every 100 forints produced last year to maintain the state, going to this huge, wasteful waterhead. On the other hand, in 2020 and here is the point, which is very, very important for this bill, I believe that the Hungarian state has spent 2833 billion forints on health care, which is a historical record. In the previous year, the total health expenditure of public finances reached only HUF 1925 billion, i.e. over a year the sources of healing increased by HUF 900 billion. If you deduct the cost of the excessly purchased respirators and vaccines, the increase will be HUF 500 billion. However, it is a record here, a record there, and Hungarian health care spending on GDP still does not reach the EU average. Last year, 5.9 percent of GDP came to this goal after 4 percent in 2019, but we are still very far from the EU average for the last year of peace, which was 7.1 percent in 2009. The great winners of the pandemic 2020 were, of course, not health and education, but hold on, although you are very aware of this, churches and sport. And now I'd like to quote a few more very short figures from the portfolio, and that's very interesting, broken down by day. They spent HUF 793 million a day on sports purposes, HUF 422 million a day for church purposes, and healthcare received HUF 167 million a day as a supplement from the central budget. I believe that these figures speak for themselves, and they are about to show you what your relationship with Hungarian society is, what your relationship with Hungarian health care is, and everything else we hear from you is nothing more than cheap propaganda that we can wipe our eyes with. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-58	Thank you and with respect to my fellow Members. This time, Congressman Pesti Imre asked for a word from the Fidesz Group for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-59	Thank you for the floor. Congressman Varga once again urged me to speak. In it, I see the well poisoner of Hungarian health care: he regularly allows himself to make speeches that destroy trust in health care. We didn't make fake videos, we didn't create fantasies with complete people. What you're saying is outrageous. It is shocking to acknowledge the efforts of health workers under Covid, but it also indicates that patients flee from hospitals because they otherwise go there to die. To add, what do you think, Congressman, what kind of doctors work in the private sector? Doctors who work in public institutions will never understand if they don't pay attention, otherwise they work in state institutions; they're the same doctor. Do not imagine that a doctor who works in a public institution will be uncharacteristic and non-fairly caring for the patient and will act in the private sector. Definitely refuse! The recognition of Hungarian doctors is world-class. In cardiology, neurosurgery, transplantation, non-invasive cardiology, Hungarian health care is at the forefront of the world. Please note that everything you are allowed to do here is a gross destruction of the confidence in Hungarian health care! He's been doing what his party's been doing for months, years. I reject you on behalf of the Hungarian medical community! Thank you very much. (Dr. Csaba Gyure in the notary seat) It's replaced by Gergely Harvesto.)
u2021-10-20-60	Thank you. I am also speaking for two minutes to Congressman Zoltán Varga of DK. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-61	Thank you very much. Congressman! We're probably not watching a movie. I don't know if you've heard the previous debate, or if you've read any news. A professional gremlin has just published today his study that over the past two years, 5,000 cancer patients have remained undiagnosed. Five thousand! When you talk about me or us being the opposition, we'd be health well poisoners, I'm sorry, but that's a ridiculous attitude after you don't look these people in the eye. Many of these people are likely to die, and that doesn't happen, because you, the health government, are practically lying and trying to cover up with heroic health workers, hiding behind their shoulders, hiding behind their backs, instead of taking responsibility. But it's gonna come to that someday, because you know, you know, I guess you're gonna say, "The trees don't grow to the sky," or they're gonna fall out on their own, or they're gonna get cut out. That's what's waiting for you. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-62	Thank you. I will also address our fellow Member, Lajos Rig, from Jobbik, for two minutes. Here you go. [[Zoltán Varga turning to Lajos Rig, that's you!]]
u2021-10-20-63	Yeah? [[Zoltán Varga: Defiance.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Getting on so fast, that was surprising. Otherwise, I would only warn or draw your attention to the fact that we opposition representatives are trying to give examples from real life, and I would now take examples from my constituency and look into it, all of this is true. The hospital in Tapolca has been out of active infirmary for over a year, so emergency cases must be delivered to Ajka, which during the winter period, you know very well how much. No one-day surgical care for more than a year. The hospital in Keszthely hasn't had a trauma infirmary for a month, which means that the patients are being transported from the northern shore of Lake Balaton to Ajka. However, his lips have been out of service in the hospital for two weeks, so the injured on the north coast are taken to Ajka, where there is no CT, they put him in another ambulance, they take him to Veszprém, they conjure him up and take him back to Ajka. Do you think that's okay? So this isn't real life. But I have to say, there hasn't been a gynecological clinic in Tapolca for over a year, that if you want to check in to the ophthalmology today, you will have an appointment in June 2022, and this is the real world. The fact that there are supply systems that work is due to the fact that the region is such a medical facility. What's that all about? What you're not saying is there's no doctor, there's no nurse, or that doctor works in several places. That's something you forget to talk about. Or are there doctors who couldn't work because they weren't taken back to a county hospital because they gave their opinion and led them to private health care? Because it's the truth. But you don't tell me that. There's just one little problem. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That the ordinary people, the voters, the people who live there know all this, only you are trying to hide it or to grasp it in another dimension. Excuse me, Mr. President. [[14.10]]
u2021-10-20-64	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Ildikó Horváth:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-10-20-65	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I've made notes, I'm trying to respond to a few right now, and let me go in order. I would like to thank Imre Pesti for his confirmation that this is a decision and review of the previous plans taken after due consideration of the social institutions. I think it is very important that it has been mentioned here on several occasions why there is a need to change more details about this transitional regulation, which was a good, reassuring solution five years ago. In addition to the fact that there was an ongoing consultation with the social institutions, the social government gave this response carefully, based on expert opinions, a very important thing happened during the process: the pandemic took place and took place. This also highlighted areas that could not be seen in 2016. The social sector is still in the process of considering this. The question of partial examinations has already been raised in Mr Pesti's speech for graduates, and then later, Mr Rig raised the question of competence and the partial examinations. These partial examinations aim primarily at unsupervised work from one step to the next in the course of their own training. Indeed, it is most seriously worked out with residents, i.e. during medical training, so that in the five years that they spend as residents, as candidates for specialists, what are the partial examinations that can validate so that he can perform certain interventions without support, without a background of specialist experts, without presence, independently. This did not primarily aim for what the Member said, the competences between GPs and academics, I do not know, the shift, the expansion of the professional competences with which he is closer to or able to carry out a medical degree. I agree with you that we fully support this. If everyone is able to perform certain activities in an appropriate capacity in their own competence, let us give the patient the opportunity to be sure that he/she has the right to do so, has the experience to do so, and to ensure the income of the relative accordingly, in accordance with his/her responsibilities. Not even in that area, the paramedics and paramedics have a lot of other things that distinguish their scope of competence. In the case of midwives and midwives, these negotiations and discussions have started with regard to spontaneous birth management. The discussion on this is already under way, and with regard to emergency services, I think it is really important that this is discussed. You also raised it, and I agree with that, that the processes in the medical aid market should be closely followed. The stick was an example. We know about this process, there are discussions with the relevant organisations. We are no longer here, Mr Banai State Secretary, but we have been thinking, together with the Ministry of Finance, that what was done by the extreme price increase of container carriers, and that which, by the way, has been caused by the huge increase in prices produced abroad, even in the production of simple equipment, is very sudden, so that a better solution can be achieved with greater autonomy and financially, and a more significant reflection of the area of medical aid is now under way. I would like to set an example of how to prevent Mopeds from being sold to a significant extent by the state, while the patient, in whose name the state gave it, is still alive, only he is not using it, but the family is making money out of it. So, in dealing with these maladministrations, we are really willing to see you give us proposals to work with in this package. We would like to move quickly in this very sudden but significant problem area. This is indeed the issue of the stick and one or two simpler tools. The practice communities. I also agree that content is a very important thing. I must say, however, that I have at least three years of consultation with the various organisations of general practitioners, the people, the people provided, the municipalities, and other health actors in what and what kind of wording is useful to the people who live there, and what the practice communities can do most of their own. So we respectfully ask Parliament to support the mandate for the government to do this work. What I can promise you is that, as before, when it comes to improving basic supply, we work with them most closely to move in a direction that is feasible to them and to the health of the people they are responsible for. In this, the fact that they, as private actors, as private entrepreneurs in the health care sector, received the wage support from the state was a special solution. They also wanted us to move quickly, and they also agreed to develop detailed regulation later. That's why there are not so many variations, but the collegial community of practice and the close community of practice have been introduced because of this, who wants to join a little practice community, but is not yet sure exactly how he thinks he should be able to do it. In general, we see that this was very well received. We are working on the last discussion yesterday that the content that colleagues have developed in various pilot programs was methodologically tested and considered positive, such as this low-intensity psychological support service, how we can connect it to their work as soon as possible. And now we've got a very nice piece of professional material, and we're ready to introduce it to you. Safe medication, we think, is critical. We did, and I thank Parliament for the support that we received at the beginning of the pandemic in terms of the e-receptability, that if someone announces the Taj number, Aunt Mary has set an example, they will also give her the medicine to give to the patient. But in this secure supply of pharmaceuticals, which was highlighted by the professional bodies, it was not this, but primarily that the supply of medicinal products takes place in a closed chain in Hungary, it is precisely due to what box, where, where it goes on, at which temperature it is transported. So every step in the system as it is now guaranteed that when it arrives at the patient, it should be of good quality and what the patient is prescribed to the prescribers. There is also an online possibility, a remote possibility for pharmacies to release non-prescription medications to their patients, but this is linked to pharmacies. There is no legal right to practice such as it is currently in the Internet market and in the Internet pharmaceutical trade, we have regular signals from the European Union on most of the counterfeit medicines and other cases. In Hungary, phenomena such as those we have seen from other countries have started. So we believe it is right that, if it cannot be done quickly enough, it is reassuring for everyone to set up a regulation for a transitional period, at least, to make it clear to whom and how it is prohibited. The type of activity of pharmacies that deliver pharmaceuticals is strictly regulated, which is still more than 300-400 pharmacies operated today, will continue to be available. The gas station and the drugstore are examples. This ensures less than 0.1 per cent of your drug turnover. Indeed, what we call medicine is a wide scale, some people include products that are otherwise dietary supplements, including a number of vitamins, they are actually available in drugstores, grocery stores, everywhere else, not drugs. These regulations, which apply to medicinal products, will not apply. For non-prescription products that could have been legally sent by such mail order, there was a restriction on them, since none of the prescription medicines should have been sold on this route in accordance with the current legislation. So I have a different opinion. I believe that what the experts have indicated is that it is indeed necessary to act in the best interests of the patient, because practices have been launched that do not change economic indicators and movements, but make the patient's safety weaker. [[14.20]] The career model has been developed in several ways. The Medical Chamber was mentioned here several times. Indeed, he was involved in the service relationship, what he expects, for example, from the point of view of wage increases, how many years of work his income should be, and he was able to formulate certain other pillars, and even if we don't call it a career model, but a long-term thinking about what a young resident can expect when he starts working under the service, gave us a clue. I think it is very important that many or few doctors or just enough, this can always be the question of a serious debate about the fact that 420 residents entered the Hungarian training system in 2010 and 782 residents entered the Hungarian training system until September this year, and I consider this to be an extremely important and positive process. These young colleagues are 782 now, but there is still a round to join residency, so nearly a thousand people will enter a non-parasolvency healthcare system for the first time in 70 years, and there is a way that young colleagues clearly expect, a type of professional development that they have responded positively to. They said that they would enter this service, that they would start the work in the meantime, because they felt the respect of society in the wages they received, and that they felt the appreciation of the way society is now getting involved in their work. I ask you very much and ask your support to Parliament to strengthen their faith that, yes, it is worth giving their work for the Hungarian people, giving their troubles and their sleepless nights, and that, yes, it is worth being one of those who arrange this 100 million annual doctor-patient meeting in Hungary. Because the opposition politicians scolded several times, in several ways, and attacked badly in a Hungarian state-owned healthcare system or in a public-funded health system, there was a 100 million-year-old doctor-patient meeting in the last year of peace. We're gonna see how after the pandemic, it's gonna go back to normal, what our colleagues did. To do so, we need to create a supportive social climate, for which it can do a great deal if the comments do not sound as Mr Varga said. I don't want to quote, I don't want to repeat, you know what he said. It is worth considering that this was a confirmation for today's Hungarian health care workers, or an attack on one of those... [[Zoltán Varga: I didn't attack health workers, I attacked the health government. Dr. Imre Pesti: We're in Parliament! Lőrinc Nacsa: The Secretary of State speaks!]] I am willing to listen to Congressman at any time, and I very much hope that you do not want to eviscerate healthcare workers. I am grateful and proud of this work of my colleagues, and I think it is important for them to enjoy this social respect in addition to financial benefits. I would very much like to say, I think you said that you were talking about funding, and you classified purchases under the pandemic as unnecessary purchases of ventilators and vaccines. Congressman, explain this to our medical staff. Explain to those colleagues working in intensive care that they would be happier if the machines, the new machines we set during the pandemic, and the intensive capacity during the peace years, we were able to raise the average of 500 to 600 patients who were respirated to Covid, that only about 2 thousand patients were in hospitals, and otherwise for other reasons they were ventilated, so we had the right machinery park. There has never been a problem with oxygen, and there has not been any problem, which, by the way, torments Italian, English and other colleagues or at present Romanian colleagues. They weren't left without a plane, and they didn't have to tell any of their patients that I couldn't get them on the plane anymore, that's your choice. The Hungarian Government has done everything in its power not to put our colleagues in the healthcare sector in such a situation. And there has never been a problem with vaccines anywhere in the world that have been bought unnecessarily. They worked and worked throughout the world for the first semester to get a vaccine as soon as possible. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] It can already be seen that with vaccines from China, Russia, America and elsewhere, Hungary has been able to provide one of the most diversified vaccine portfolios. By vaccination with five vaccines, and the Hungarian people until 26 June, five million Hungarians, more than half of the population, were able to be vaccinated, with two huge results. And if the congressman doesn't know the numbers, let me tell you. On the one hand, we were able to break the third wave very quickly. According to experts' calculations, we saved the lives of over 9,000 people without having to suffer from an otherwise predictable number of epidemics. And there's another very significant consequence. I would like to draw your attention to how slowly the delta virus mutant has been able to spread and start in Hungary, along with the fact that the Hungarian people have lived their free social, social and workplace lives. The Hungarian students could camp in the summer, they were not subject to restrictions, as the English children were until the end of June. There was only one very serious reason for this: Hungary acted against the fourth wave in the same way as we did at the first wave, we took defensive measures early. In this case, this vaccine was used against the fourth wave. We have successfully protected the lives of the Hungarian people, and all those who have attacked either the Chinese or Russian vaccine or the purchase of vaccine in general must think very seriously, many experts have already indicated that lives can depress their souls. I'm very confident that you're working to save people's lives. They can help and help healthcare workers who have been mentioned as valuable to you, and it is important for them not to be eviscerated, but to help them not to go to a mass hospital. To do that, you need to pick up the vaccines, the Chinese, the Russian, the American, because they all have papers by now. Congressman, you may not believe the WHO's position and other authorities, and it is worth reading up on what international experts say. These are valuable, protective vaccines all of us. This is why the Hungarian government worked and managed to do it, got them, is available to everyone. Of course, as a health government, I thanked you for your comment. I think it is extremely important that DK representatives do not lie, it is a very important thing. We do our own thing. Let's avoid this kind of work, avoid the kind of concept you've described as lying all over the place, but I'm very confident that you won't. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-20-66	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on psychotropic substances published by Decree-Law No 25 of the year, published in Vienna on the announcement of the amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed on 21 February 1971, and the Act on the Publication of the Amendment to the United Drug Convention of 30 March 1961, published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965, and the XCV of 2005 on medicinal products for human use and other laws governing the pharmaceutical market. joint general debate on the draft law amending the law until its closure. Government referrals T/17274, T/17276. and T/17275. available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor once again to Mrs Ildikó Horváth, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Members, I'd like to have a very short expo. With regard to T/17274, the United Nations Committee on Drugs has decided to list seven new substances in the psychotropic convention. This is the list which is part of the Convention signed in Vienna in 1971. According to the Hungarian legislation in force, all the substances in question are considered controlled substances, of which four are psychotropic substances and three are new psychoactive substances. Next up is T/17276. The UN Committee on Drugs decided to include a substance, isotonitazene, on the first list of the drug convention. According to the Hungarian legislation in force, the substance now declared drug use by the UN Drugs Committee is already subject to drug abuse in Hungary as a result of a previous decision of the European Union. [[14.30]] It is the duty of States Parties to take the legislative measures necessary to bring into force and implement the provisions of the Conventions in their respective territories. These UN resolutions are international agreements, so it is essential that the Parliament recognizes its binding scope and can publish the text of the resolutions. Next up is 17275. By Delegated Directive 2021/802, the Commission included two new psychoactive substances in the Annex to Framework Decision 2004/757/JHA, thus declaring them to be subject to the same treatment as drugs in terms of criminality. The transposition of the Directive requires an extension of the range of psychotropic substances contained in the 2005 Act. That is why I ask this House to support T/17274, T/17275. and T/17276. Our legislative proposals. Thank you for listening. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2021-10-20-68	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Now the lead speakers will present the political position of the factions. First, I give the floor to Imre Pesti, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2021-10-20-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Two important conventions should be mentioned. On March 30, 1961, a single drug convention was concluded in New York, which was adopted by Hungary in 1965 and announced. There is another convention that was later born in Vienna in February 1971. This Convention was published in Hungary in 1979 by Decree-Law. This was about psychotropics. The three proposals are practically confined to these two conventions. The point of the convention was that they felt that psychotropic substances or drug-like substances or drugs raised very serious public health and social issues. Together, they decided in New York to prevent and combat abuse of these substances and their illicit trade. It has also been recognised that restrictions on these drugs are being organised under the auspices of the United Nations and are being constantly followed, and therefore the UN Drug Commission, which is also responsible for shaping drug policy and regulating drug policy, has been established. The 17274 presentation puts seven products on the list of psychotropic substances. I wouldn't say their names, especially their chemical names, because they would break my tongue, and I might not even be able to say it, but in any case, there are seven such substances. Proposal 17275 presents a list of three substances to be added to the list of psychoactive substances. The third bill, the 17276 bill, is also a single substance, the secretary of state tried it, and I also try it, it is called isotonitazene, which will be added to the drug list. What we need to know is that the UN Drug Commission meets once a year. By the way, when it was formed, 40 countries immediately joined it, and at the annual meeting, it was now on 14 April 2021, according to the regulations they brought, new substances were added to the list. It is interesting that 47 people voted and, out of the 47 voters, 47 or one abstention, supported these changes almost uniformly. One thing we all have to take note of, and that is why I ask Members to sit on either side to support it, because for children, especially young people, drugs and psychotropic substances are a huge threat to the family, to the smaller community, to a nation and, in fact, to society as a whole. The other thing that is important to see is that drug trafficking, drug trafficking, crime, crime, the underworld, is immediately linked to drugs, resulting in a divided society. A healthy, normal society must fight against the underworld, crime, and drugs through it. I strongly recommend that everyone support this bill. I have a little time left, so I would like to return, because it is regularly in the health debate, in the budgetary debate, and very often here in Parliament, there is a shortage of doctors, funding in health, and I think that its genesis is very little known to us. In 2004, before we entered the European Union, five countries were screened, the ten countries were screened, and then experts from the European Union said that the ten countries were expecting 25,000 doctors from Western Europe, 5 000 from Hungary. The second was that while Hungary stood at the level of economic development in 2004 at 56 per cent of the European Union, health wages and, of course, nurses' wages were between 15 and 30 per cent. So it was quite clear that our entry into the European Union would result in a very serious medical migration. By the way, we've got this medical movement in the West, but they're going to America and elsewhere. Of course, I would like to add quickly that I am still on the European Union's side, just to note that such cooperation or entry into the European Union has had negative consequences. Obviously, there was a very significant wage difference between doctors working in the European Union and Hungarian doctors, while 5,000 doctors emigrated. I don't know exactly. Three thousand doctors wandered the country. I am particularly pleased that this process has stopped and a reverse flow has started. While, and now I would just like to state the facts, after the 2002 election, 300 billion forints remained in the register, this 300 billion forint was given to the public services, the health professionals, and then ran out at the end of the year, and then they didn't give it away, they had to farm out, not to mention the serious management difficulties. In practice, institutions were closed between 2002 and 2010.
u2021-10-20-70	Congressman, I would kindly like to draw your attention to continuing your speech as a speaker on the subject. Thank you.
u2021-10-20-71	I think that's what the speech is about. I would like to point out that health care has a serious history of medical emigration. This has now ceased, and it must be welcomed, supported, and there are finally normal wages, which are competitive wages in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2021-10-20-72	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Lajos Rig, who will present the opinion of the Jobbik faction as lead speaker. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've been listening to Congressman Pesti's exposé. I totally agreed until 4 minutes 23, but then he started, and I re-evaluated it, and I totally agree until 6 minutes 00. So there really is no medical and health training in the Scandinavian states, including Sweden, and that is why they are waiting for qualified doctors and nurses from Western Europe, Eastern Europe. But back to the presentation, this goes back year after year in each speech, so there is no debate within Parliament that is generated either at committee level or here in Parliament. I think that each faction agrees with what professionals in either the United Nations or in other places where they deal with drugs and put a certain item on a non-list, they would not do in the Government of Hungary or in the Parliament of Hungary. The speakers before me, whether Madam Secretary or Congressman Pesti, have already told me their chemical compositions and chemical names for drugs, so I wouldn't go for it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Let's hear it! Let's hear it.]] But it may be that if drug users or people living with psychotropics were to report the chemical signs and chemical names of these substances, and only then could they obtain the drug, there would be a minimum reduction of 50 percent in the number of drug users in Hungary. However, if Parliament did not have a chemical sign, but a market name, the newspapers might reveal a great deal, we might be able to conclude which psychotropic substances are there. So all three proposals will be supported by the Jobbik faction, as they have been. Thank you very much. [[14.40]]
u2021-10-20-74	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-75	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Not for the first time, and I don't think it's the last time we're having a debate like this, perhaps in the same lead speaker's round before the National Assembly. This is the case according to the legislative order presented by the Secretary of State, because if we want to comply with our international obligations and new substances are banned in international organisations, I believe that the Hungarian Parliament has an obligation to make them clearly part of the Hungarian legal order. But we always go by the technical details of this bill that it's important, new material, someone trying to say it, someone less brave I'm now one of the latter, and I don't say the names of the materials, but we're always talking about another substance being banned. I think it is a very important and very serious issue that we are talking about here, and which we must take very seriously. Because all forms of drugs are among the most harmful things for both the individual, his family and the whole community and society. We, Christian Democrats, can only imagine zero tolerance against drugs, and we can only see this behaviour as acceptable, and we have supported and supported to a great extent all the restrictions and actions in the future that are directed against designer drugs, psychotropic and psychoactive substances. Hungary has also seen legislation on new psychoactive substances and the reduction of the domestic use of designer drugs in recent years. On 1 July 2013, the Criminal Code, which was then the most rapidly responding legislation of the European Union to its most recent problems, came into force. As a result, this tightening of the EU Member States was the first to enter into force in Hungary. This includes, among other things, strict criminal law rules on designer drugs with European standards, and since 1 January 2014, the law under which all acts involving new psychoactive substances can be sanctioned, as do drugs. Hungary is one of the few EU countries where the possession of new psychoactive substances is prohibited, and it also follows that the strictest regulation for possession in the European Union is in place in Hungary. From 1 January 2015, the list of new psychoactive substances will no longer be laid down in a government regulation, but in a ministerial regulation, which will allow for an even faster response. International drug control is carried out on the basis of three UN conventions, which was also spoken of by the Secretary of State and by my fellow Member, Imre Pesti. Hungary is a party to all three conventions, but given that the provisions of the three UN Conventions are not directly applicable, so every time the UN Committee on Narcotics lists another illicit substance, the Hungarian Parliament has to adopt a legislative amendment to include it in the Hungarian national legal order. At its 64th session in 2021, the United Nations Committee on Drugs decided to include one substance in the list of the drug convention and seven substances in the list of the psychotropic convention. Given the continuous emergence of new substances, new compounds on the black market, the drug market, the constant modification of these compounds by the various distributors, and these new substances may be extremely dangerous, so the rapid response, I think, is as important as possible. I have often suggested in-house, even in front of the Parliament's public, that we discuss the possibility that we might reverse this process and put everything on a ban list until someone allows it or in some way gets into the approved category. After all, this process has doubled over the last eight years, at government regulation and ministerial decree levels, but perhaps it would be possible to bring about an even faster process if it were basically and automatically placed on every ban list until it was found that the compound was somehow authorised by an authority whose task it was. I think that this rapid response is also seen in statistics, because while we have witnessed a growing number of drug offences by 2014, we have seen a stagnant or slightly declining picture since 2014. However, this is still a lot and we still have to fight, we are still facing a huge problem that affects our young people, affects our families, affects our communities. In this case, we may all have a common goal of combating drugs, protecting young people from one of the greatest threats to them today. I think that not only can we count on the cooperation of all parliamentary parties and Members in this area, but also, in general, this cooperation with most Members in this area, I thank you for that. In my opinion, it is extremely important that we act together against the use, possession and dissemination of drugs, drugs, psychotropic, psychoactive substances, and we obviously do our international obligations every year, so we do so now, so the KDNP fraction will also support all three legislative proposals. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-76	Thank you. I give the floor to Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Obviously, this has been said before me from the mouths of several key speakers, indeed, the bill fulfils an international obligation, and we obviously support it. We support it not only for this, but also because the fight against drugs is very important for the Democratic Coalition. However, with regard to the bill, we must talk about the Orbán government and it is very important to emphasise this word about its failing drug policy. Congressman Nacsa tried to shed light on the past, let me do the same from a different perspective. According to the national drug strategy announced by the Orbán government in 2013, Hungary will be drug free by 2020. It's 2021 now. It seems to me that it didn't work. In addition, experts in the field see the exact opposite, namely that it is becoming easier and cheaper to get access to drugs, that biograss is now among young people, and that the police are doing nothing to combat the spread of synthetic drugs. Obviously, it is safe to say that this objective of the course was unrealistic, and this has a very serious and sad consequence, and it is not that professionals can openly talk about problems such as poverty and homelessness, because then they would face official government topis, tops and communication. Obviously this is a kind of taboo, and there are serious consequences, including the fact that consumers do not dare to participate in harm reduction services, and do not receive adequate information about the dangers of drug abuse, for example. We DK politicians believe in harm reduction rather than punishment. On behalf of the Jogjournalist Foundation, an exploratory research has been carried out, I don't know, and I think you know this, which has charted the situation of harm reduction in Budapest. Otherwise, this research focused on harm reduction because the emergence and spread of new psychoactive substances around the world have brought new challenges to the drug industry and the paradigm shift has played an increasingly important role in this approach. I don't want to go into this for a long time, because you know it very well. The point of this is that they no longer require full exemption, but they try to reduce the risks of drug use. This includes a variety of services. It includes the provision of information, from party support to needle exchange and psychosocial intervention to individual or group consultation, family therapy and drop in function. This would also function as a kind of gateway, otherwise it will introduce the client, the patient in any form of addiction to social care, and you will be able to direct it further towards higher levels of benefits. One of the most important findings of the research was that experts in their work found that since power has made drug use a taboo, official government communication indicates that the problem does not exist in Budapest. The reason for this is the policy of the Orbán course, the fact that the national anti-drug strategy adopted in 2013 is precisely the unrealistic objective of Hungary being drug-free by 2020. We know very well that this was developed by the second Orbán government after withdrawing the strategy in force at the time in 2010, because they thought it was too liberal at the time, and then, despite the opposition of professionals, in three years he developed a completely new one, which focused on prevention instead of harm reduction. [[14.50]] With this, of course, we know very well that, at the same time, the cheap and powerful psychoactive substances known as the herbal and crystal were incredibly advanced, and, in a few years, classical drugs such as heroin and weed were forced out. It could be said very, very long that these infinitely cheap and very murderous psychoactive designers were among those living in extreme poverty most affected by this, and we also see that the government has no response or solution to this problem. There is no one, and we also know that the hands of professionals are tied, because they cannot speak openly about problems, because then we should talk about the extent of extreme poverty in Hungary, not only in the countryside, but also in the big cities. And, in spite of the silence and the role of the government, we see and the experts also find that in all social classes, otherwise, drug use is present.
u2021-10-20-78	Mr President, I would also like to warn you to continue your speech as a speaker on the subject. Thank you.
u2021-10-20-79	The difference is who uses what kind of drugs and how openly they do it. But I really do obey Mr President, and I wouldn't go on with this topic, but it would be very interesting, because then, for example, we would see what the role of the police in this, that the police really want nothing to do with the production and distribution of synthetic substances, and the suppression of them, while the use of these drugs has been increasing over the last five years. And if we look at the fact that nightclubs don't dare move towards harm reduction, for example, by letting in harm reduction services that I was talking about earlier, I have to say that this situation is tragic. And if you look at the state of the country, it's safe to say that the government's drug policy so far is a total failure. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-80	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Madam Secretary! Fellow Members! I didn't want to comment, but the idea of Lőrinc Nacsa is completely eligible, and I think that already exists in the world. So, if I remember correctly, it's the Canadian state that introduced the kind of system that created a negative list that everything is forbidden except what the authorities allow. This is a list of much fewer items than it currently exists either in Hungary or in any other country of the Union. This is fully eligible, and I believe that it could be applied at EU level, and that the Union would be able to reduce drug abuse, drug trafficking and consumption even within its borders. I recommend it for consideration here, either at government level or at EU level.
u2021-10-20-82	Thank you very much. I am also speaking to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-83	Thank you very much. Thank you for Lajos Rig's support, and I have also been watching the events in Canada on this, by the way. I think it will be worth talking about in the longer term when such a law comes up, but I wanted to respond to Mr Varga in a few things, because I think we need to look for common points of agreement in this very difficult situation. If the congressman were honest with himself, he would see, for example, how much the situation has deteriorated in the districts of Budapest led by the DK mayors in the last two years, since they started, I do not want to go from the needle exchange programme to any program, how much this situation has deteriorated in the capital, in the DK districts, Congressman. If you were honest with yourself and talked to your fellow parties in Budapest, you would realize that this is the case, and the fact is that this is precisely the subject that is not needed what the Member has said here, but that we need joint efforts. This is a problem that affects a large number of younger generations, which is a problem of the kind where we have to fight it together. On the one hand, there are international efforts, we see here in the current bill, through the various specialised bodies of the United Nations, the various specialised bodies of the European Union and the Hungarian government, such as the ministries, for example, the authorities, are fighting this. Looking down on the police's fight against drugs and scolding them with half a sentence, Congressman, it was so shocking to me, as our policemen see it in the most difficult circumstances, even in the most difficult districts, often also among criminals, and they continue this day-to-day struggle, even though in your time, honourable Member, there have been 420 thousand registered crimes a year, and now it's under 190,000. The number of registered crimes has been reduced by half and even by less than half, although in your time public security was not an absolute priority on the government's agenda. The fact is, I do not think that we should approach this issue in the way that the Member does. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I propose a completely different approach. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-84	Thank you. I will also speak for two minutes to Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK. Here you go, notary.
u2021-10-20-85	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, So, I have to tell you, if you'd be so kind as to come up with data, evidence, come up with some kind of research that proves that, well, the DK mayors are spreading drug use. Mr. Congressman, then there is no drug use anywhere else in the world except in Hungary and in the DK districts. That's why he's gonna get a Nobel Prize if you can prove that the mayor's party position depends on the use of drugs. I'm sorry, Congressman, but this is fun, even for you. As far as the police are concerned, speak, Congressman, I suggest that you talk to police officers who work in this area and ask them how helping their work is to spend time with unnecessary administration because of inadequate legislation in cases where this does not make any sense, because there will be no prosecution or prosecution that otherwise has no substantive consequences, rather than dealing with real criminals and distributors. I have to tell you that I heard from the head of Scotland Yard's narcotics division several years ago that for police officers, the type of criminal policy that manifests itself in the formal attempt to fight drugs, consumers, small consumers, instead of chasing distributors, traders, is as bad as possible. In this way, you are not fighting drug trafficking, you are improving statistics. This is true, of course, for their entire public safety policy. It's not crime that's been reduced, Mr. Congressman, the statistics have been improved, and I congratulate you on that. Ask people what they think about the public safety situation. They're gonna tell you, and they're not gonna say, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
u2021-10-20-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Once again, I respectfully draw the attention of my fellow Members to the title of this topic. This time also two minutes away, Congressman Zoltán Varga has the floor from DK. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm very careful with the title, I swear. Congressman Nacsa, the truth is, I always wonder, after a comment like this, whether you may have trouble understanding the text, or do you simply not hear well? Because what I see is that he's talking, and obviously he's saying something, but it's just not connected to reality. So when you talk about what's in the DK districts, let's not forget that the Orbán government, you, KDNP, Fidesz, promised to solve this problem 12 years ago. Obviously, we should realize that what you do, for example, under the name of drug policy, is a failure. I can't do this! You can't criminalize high school students just because you think they're sweeping everything under the rug, and if someone doesn't behave the way you want them to, they're simply putting them in a position to ruin their lives. It should be noted that this drug policy you're applying doesn't work, time has passed. That's not the way to deal with it. You don't have to criminalize people, you don't have to look at it as a police task; and on the other hand, if you think I hurt the police, you're wrong. You are responsible, not the police, for the situation. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-88	Thank you. The speaker, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, is the representative of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-89	Thank you, Mr. President. I promise I won't go beyond the two-minute window. I think it's a police job. I do not agree with Mr Varga that this is not a police task, and this is also a police task. And I can't agree with the fact that in this choir, Gergely Arató and Zoltán Varga are apologizing to consumers. Of course, look at the penal code, the distributors are in it, and the owners are in it. [[15.00]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that we strike down with all the rigour of the law on those who possess and distribute in this regard by the authorities. Dissemination in court is, of course, always an aggravating circumstance, and you know it. But by trying to absolve consumers and owners, I cannot identify, Mr honourable Member, because I do not think that this is the right posture on this issue. Look at the recent court judgments, the penalties imposed in the past period, and the distributors have always received multiples of the penalty as the owners have. Because obviously, there is a distribution network that often distributes drugs on the streets and in different locations by criminal means, but let us not absolve those who are otherwise consumers, and in this respect let us completely push this problem away from ourselves. Congressman, once again, I cannot agree with that. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-90	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask the national secretary of state how she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Ildikó Horváth:]] Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-10-20-91	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you for your comments, and thank you very much for the support of Jobbik, Fidesz and KDNP for the legislative proposals. We go on this path, Hungary always reacts to new psychotropic substances. You are absolutely right, Congressman, for newspapers you have to use market names: crystal, bull, and such are the words that the market recognizes. We'll work for it. Some don't even have that name yet. I would like to add two more thoughts. The domestic drug strategy has been mentioned. I have now looked at the drug strategy adopted by the European Council for the period 2021-25, which uses concepts such as health development, social stability, security, awareness, reduction of supply and effective action against criminals. I looked back at the Hungarian drug strategy available on Parliament.hu, which expired in 2020 with its objectives, and I saw that it coincides with the current substance adopted by the European Council. My position is that the Hungarian drug strategy, or what Hungary represents as a Member State, is a modern, modern and recognised protection against drugs by international professionals. And we understand it completely differently than that of Congressman Varga, who left the room, who said that harm reduction was necessary. This concept was used as a scam by the tobacco industry when a new type of tobacco began to be sold out by,, harm reduction, without proving that it was harm reduction, and just when a two-year-old child died in such harm reduction. I also think that a wolf in sheep's clothing is a drug strategy that puts harm reduction on his flag. We have to go against that. It is more acceptable in the public health community, what Congressman Nacsa has said is that everything is prohibited until it is authorised. In public health, it is said that everything that is dangerous must be treated with caution that it may cause trouble. And if the person who wants to sell it proves that he won't cause any trouble, then let's accept and go in this direction. I hope we can follow up on that in the drug case. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-20-92	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, A general debate on the bill on measures to modernise individual procedures and further strengthen the security of citizens will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/17283. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is, on the one hand, to make the administration smoother through the electronicisation and automation of individual procedures and, on the other hand, to strengthen the internal security of the country. The proposal responds to the challenges faced by the public administration in view of the epidemic situation, as the period of emergency has also highlighted the need for new electronic administration services to be used as widely as possible. It is therefore necessary to introduce new central electronic administration services to increase the scope of tasks that can be performed in the public administration without contact and which are also used for faster and simpler handling of customers. It is of particular importance that, by modernising administration, we provide an opportunity to use artificial intelligence so that the burden of both citizens and authorities can be reduced. In view of this, the government proposes to introduce new solutions based on artificial intelligence that can transform oral statements into a credible written declaration and communicate with the authorities through chatrobot, as is customary in the markets. Such a new service, with the support of artificial intelligence not yet mentioned in the law but to be defined in the implementing regulation, will be voice training, i.e. converting the electronic document into speech, recording, which means converting live speech into writing, as well as customer communication service, i.e. chatrobot. This will allow the client to submit a written request orally or to submit a written statement through chatrobot. In this context, the amendment of the Civil Procedure Act allows written declarations to be considered as a private document with full evidentiary effect. Under the provision, the document thus drawn up will also be authentic in the case of operators using the service. The draft shall contain the necessary legislative legs. At present, for each electronic signature, the role of the signatory is either not indicated or should be indicated in the signatory's organisational certificate. This has the drawback that if the same person wants to sign in different roles, he has to apply for different signature certificates. In addition, if the given signature does not contain the organisational function data, the person concerned's entitlement shall be demonstrated by other means. With the help of the role certificate in the bill, when applying the functionality of the electronic signature, the signature and authentication of the document will be linked to the document inextricably, the role of the signatory and the authentic data concerning its function. This option is open for the first time to persons with a public service mission. From 2 August 2021, fingerprints shall be a mandatory element of a permanent identification card. However, in the course of citizenship procedures, it may arise that the fingerprints have not yet been recorded for the data subject, but the identity card will not be issued on its own initiative. Since the citizen cannot suffer a legal disadvantage because of this, it is necessary to ensure that he can take an oath and take a vow without the identity card. By 31 December 2022, if the procedure for issuing an official permanent identity card is terminated by the authority, the new document shall be issued at the request of the naturalised citizen. It is also possible to indicate the place of origin on the permanent identity card at the request of the citizen from 2 August 2021. The purpose of the legislative amendment is to supplement the legislation already in place by adding to the new identity card a new identity card must contain the information of the place of origin indicated in the citizen's application. In order to further strengthen the protection and security of Hungary and of Hungarian citizens, the further priority of the bill is the fulfilment of legal harmonisation obligations. Hungary supports the entry and stay of digital nomads in Hungary. By digital nomads, we mean third-country workers who do not work full-time at the premises of their service provider or at their own premises and regularly use advanced electronic devices, computers and the Internet for professional purposes. In view of the fact that the entry and stay of digital nomads would mean more than 90 days of stay within 180 days, a residence permit is required. The White Card is a national residence permit with the right of a foreign national meeting the conditions laid down to stay in Hungary for a maximum period of one year. The authorisation may be renewed once for a maximum period of one year. The use of river passenger data can significantly contribute to the efficiency of risk analysis activities. The proposal is in line with the EU initiatives for the efficient processing of passenger data. The amendment does not create a new reporting obligation, but provides for the possibility of sending data to be provided through an electronic interface under the pre-information obligation currently in place under the Schengen Borders Code. [[15.10]] A surface on which river carriers may record the necessary data by electronic means is established, so that TIBEK can take them for purpose and use them for risk analysis under the necessary legal authorisation. This will make it more effective to prevent serious crime and strengthen the country's internal security. The extension of the statutory guarantees of increased police control contributes to the increased control only for the necessary time and geographical area, in line with the purpose of the order. With regard to the amendment of legislation on aliens, the current provisions contain restrictive measures which are detrimental to national security when, in some cases, they require violations of national security rather than endangering it. Therefore, the provisions of the legislation are amended in accordance with EU law, in order to express the threat of national security. Overall, the bill before you is intended to harmonise legislation, facilitate the administration of citizens and protect the country. Please support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-10-20-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I will give the floor to Mr Péter Agh, who will present the opinion of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In the case of the bill before us, we are once again dealing with a domestic salad law. The proposal opens up a total of 26 laws which I would not list now, but the amendments are grouped around a number of well-defined themes. There are a number of topics that require the opening of the same laws, so it is actually acceptable that we have these amendments in this form. Most of the proposals are technical or necessary to harmonise EU legislation, and most of the substantive amendments aim at simplifying or making different procedures more effective. What will affect most people will certainly be a broadening of the possibilities of electronic administration. New forms of administration will emerge that will make administration easier and safer for citizens at the same time. The latter aspect is now, during the period also defined by the coronal virus epidemic, we know well, especially important. The new procedures will make it possible to process remotely by electronic means and may even make it easier for officials. Most new administration options are available in the area of public administration, but the introduction of certain procedures could also lead to innovations in the private sector. What exactly is this about? The introduction of new electronic, artificial intelligence-based procedures, such as the use of chatrobot technology, which allows communication similar to that between real persons in the course of administration, or the conversion of oral statements into a credible written declaration through a speech recognition system, or the possibility of making electronic documents a speech. These new forms of procedure, as I have already mentioned, will significantly broaden the possibilities of remote, non-contact administration. I am sure that many citizens will take advantage of these new opportunities, since they will make the individual official processes simpler and faster, even from home, possible. However, it is important to mention that there will not be a procedure where these new roads would completely replace the old, usual forms of personal administration, which will continue to be open to citizens. Dear House, As a result of the planned legislative changes, it is possible to apply the role certificates attached to the electronic signature. In practice, this will mean that the authentication of a document by electronic signature will at the same time link a certificate to the signature, which will validate the current role of the signatory. This solution makes e-signatures easier to apply, making this form of authentication virtually a fast process operating on-line. This facilitation will be particularly important for those who can act in multiple roles at the same time. Perhaps the most important of the amendments to the documents is that the adoption of the bill may open up the possibility of using the e-signaturation function on the permanent identity card for representation. In addition, the procedural rules for the indication of the place of origin on the ID card will be clarified and the problems encountered in the case of identity cards that have not yet been issued because of the administration previously applied for without fingerprinting, but which have not yet been carried out due to the coronal virus epidemic. I consider the introduction of the so-called White Card to be a major innovation, which facilitates the conditions for the stay of so-called digital nomads from third countries for a maximum of one or two years in our country. Specially, measures to increase the security of citizens, which strengthen our protection against illegal migration, crime and terrorism, are part of the process. Such amendments include changes to ensure consistency with the law on security and security activities, the introduction of new rules simplifying the use of river passenger data or the use of return, which are more consistent with EU law, and measures to better detect asylum applications for persons fleeing from criminal liability. The rules on enhanced control are also clarified, but this is in order to avoid possible violations of the rights of persons subject to control. There are also some small regulatory elements that cannot be closely integrated into the amendments that have been made to date. Here I would like to give an example of the rules on the internship of police officers' candidates, the appointment of the trustee of the new multifunctional event hall in Budapest, the rules on the management of urban hospitals or the introduction of a service passport for the Parliamentary Guard. However, these are small regulatory elements which may be more appropriate not to be presented to Parliament in the form of separate legislative proposals. Dear House, The proposal also includes a section on the designation of the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities as a body for the performance of public geological tasks and mine monitoring. At the regulatory level, the amendment is in place. The organisation of different authorities in a single administrative structure can be a good direction. On the basis of what has been said, the Fidesz fraction will certainly support this proposal, and we respectfully encourage our fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-20-96	Thank you. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2021-10-20-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Once again, we have a salad law that actually amends more than twenty laws. As we say, we are never happy with the salad laws, because these are legislative proposals that contain a lot of things and are often hidden from many things that an opposition representative will not vote for. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Thank you so much!]] And even a good congressman won't be able to vote for me. What you usually do is connect this with good proposals, and then, as you have already done today, Congressman Nacsa, in the first debate, points out to the opposition that it has not been voted on, and what a good proposal it was in that law. Well, obviously, you have put it together with something that you obviously cannot vote for and you cannot vote for, and you will obviously refer to for 120 years, that the opposition has not voted to modernise the electronic register, and we do not want to modernise the country, and the rest of us have already heard speeches and sayings about it in the future. Obviously, when we talk about the development of electronic records, electronic... electronicization, I think that everyone has gotten used to this, and even if we have to deal with temporary difficulties, even when we have to learn about the novelty of these, overall, this means that it will make public administration and other areas better, faster and more efficient, so it will bring development and people will get used to it. Obviously, we find it difficult to get used to it at first, but then we get used to it more and more, and we see how much electronicization can help us, even if it makes administration impersonal in some cases, it doesn't get the personal help it can get from an administrator when someone who might need help to make a request, but it certainly does in many cases speed up. Obviously, there are also technical problems, and there is also a need to learn the new technique, so this also has many problems. So if we are talking about electronic development, then the Jobbik Movement for Hungary welcomes and, where appropriate, supports it. [[15.20]] Therefore, we would like to see these draft laws come before us without twenty-one pieces crammed together, 26 pieces and two of them unacceptable and the rest acceptable and even positive. So it is obviously unpleasant to say no when it contains, in most cases, good things, but some proposals make that proposal totally unacceptable and unvoteable. If we look at this draft legislation in particular, it is obviously dealing with solving problems related to electronic administration, which is certainly to be welcomed. If we look at the purpose of this bill, and if I highlight this part of the general explanation, what does the proposal bring? The fight against the Crown Virus pandemic has brought new challenges to the legislator, which it intends to meet in some social contexts by further strengthening the security of citizens guaranteed by certain legislation on public security and law enforcement. So what do we see from this? What we're seeing is that because of the corona virus epidemic, public safety, law enforcement, development, that would be the law. Well, there is indeed such a proposal, but I simply didn't understand it when I came to the neighborhood of page 3, and that was the first time I faced it that there was almost the most serious modification of mining activities and the 1993 XLVIII on mining. It's about amending the law, and I didn't understand how it came to public safety. I didn't understand how you came to public order and public defense. That was elusive to me. In fact, it is often said by the state ministers here that we are putting in a salad law because there is a close link between the laws here. Well, I don't understand how public order, public defense, comes to mining, how the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities comes here. Of course, that could be explained, but to use this law to introduce the extension of the powers of the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities in mining? How will it be that Marcell Biró, who was the head of this, who was previously the secretary of state for administration of the Prime Minister's Government Office, and obviously not relevant: with a salary of HUF 4.5 million, he will receive another area, which will be supervised by him. It will oversee a serious economic area, and how interesting it is to see what this Regulatory Activities Supervisory Authority is doing. Well, the supervision of state monopolies is part of it, such as gambling. What is interesting is the supervision of tobacco trade, the list of liquidators, the supervision of judicial enforcement organisations, the procedure for concluding concession contracts, and now mining will also be part of it, and what is more, it has the right to establish a regulation. So now he's got a lot of things that could have been Parliament's jurisdiction or government's jurisdiction, or a sectoral minister's authority, and he's gonna have legislative powers, and he's gonna tell us what's not in mining and what's not. And how interesting and how typical it is of the sporty politics, the chivalry that characterizes the 11-year government of the Fidesz-KDNP, that he once again put a person on our backs for nine years who is thought to be irreplaceable. And it doesn't matter who's going to be in government in this country for the next four-year term or the next four-year term, because we're thinking over eight years, we're talking about a nine-year-old president, who you think is irreplaceable, and you're trying to hack around the state. So what's it gonna be: that your man, Viktor Orbán's trust man, will continue to control this country for the next nine years, no matter who's in the government, but whether it's gambling or tobacco business. Obviously, it is no coincidence that you first touched this and monopolised tobacco stores and transformed the traff system in such a way that only your clientship is allowed to do so. But they also want to get involved in liquidation, executions, and in addition to concession contracts... Well, it's no small matter, they thought that for nine years, state in the state, you'd be the one to determine it. This is now being extended to mining. Obviously, what's the first thing that comes to mind? Obviously, it is very important for the Orbán mines, Prime Minister, to be a suitable and trusting man there, who will see that for the next nine years no one will be able to limit the economic activity of the Orbán family in this direction and no one else will see it. These are the problems that make a law unacceptable, even if there are things in it that might be positive, progressive. There was talk of the migrant crisis, right, and there must be restrictions; it is clearly clear that a foreigner who committed a crime which would be punishable by three years of imprisonment or more in Hungary cannot be recognised as protected. With these draft legislations, I think we can agree on a hundred percent, and these would be eligible if there were no other pitfalls hidden in this legislation. The next important thing that is affected by this change of legislation is the situation of the so-called digital nomads. This is an interesting thing in this law, because many do not even know what digital nomad is and why this regulation is necessary. The Secretary of State has already explained who can be considered as digital nomads and who they are, and has also explained the facilitations that will be made for them. Who are these digital nomads? Obviously, people who do work that would make them come from abroad to Hungary, but who can do their job digitally, can do it from anywhere in the world with the possibility of modernisation. But why would they come to Hungary? Well, the reason why these digital nomads come to Hungary is because, as I have looked up on the Internet, how these nomads live, what we call them, digital nomads, what they pay attention to, broadband, very good and very fast internet, to make a cheap living in that country; cheap rents, cheap access to food, good public safety in that town, nice environment around them, good weather, good weather conditions around them. And if we look at these digital nomads now, according to some surveys, there are about 36 million people in the world, so at the moment, this means a very large community, if we can talk about community, and it should also be noted that their number is increasing exponentially, the number of those who do their job will double in almost years. That's very good, because they're not tied to an office, anywhere where their laptops are posted, where they can do their job, and there's more and more of them. What is most popular for them? Obviously, the good weather in summer, the good weather in winter, and the way I looked at the statistics, these digital nomads usually live in the United States in the summer, live in Europe, and in winter they move to Southeast Asia, where it's much warmer, there's cheapness, there's good life, there's sea, and the rest. Yeah, I'm sorry, I forgot to tell you the proximity of the nightclubs as an attractive place for them, because it's also a significant thing, because we're usually talking about young people here. 66 percent, two thirds of these are male, one third female, and under 40 years of age are affected by the term digital nomadic, so they are usually under 40 years of age, and they are also called the Y age group. I really don't like these letters, because we're talking about Z age groups or Z generation now, and somehow you get the feeling when you talk about Y and Z generation that there won't be another generation, because there's no more letters in the alphabet. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We hope there will be.]] And we're really hoping there'll be another generation, and it won't end here, but it seems like from this generation of Y, Z, ZS there's no ZS in English we can't move on. So, obviously, we're hoping this isn't gonna happen. That's why I don't like to use that Y generation term on them. So they usually live in Europe and the United States during the summer. What does this mean, translated into Europe? The most popular city in Europe is Barcelona, and the second most popular city is Budapest. Obviously, it is also good economically for a country to grasp a layer of people who are profitable and have a good job, and they are usually exceptionally intelligent, intelligent, educated people. Although I see it as a bit contrary to Fidesz's communication policy here again, because when we talk about migrants and rejection of foreigners, and even a continuous five-year hatred of foreigners went on in the media in Hungary, then, if this is an economic advantage, we will open up. [[15.30]] Well, that's what we saw in the case of the bond business in the past, so that whoever paid could come into this country calmly, come from anywhere. Although it is also written that White Card, which will allow these digital nomads to enter the country, cannot be given to a person who has committed a crime or is dangerous to society. We also saw that it was not so with the bonds, as even the most dangerous suspected terrorists on foreign bans allowed in the Fidesz-KDNP if they paid good money to the right people. So obviously we do not see any guarantee that this screening will happen here either, because the policy of the last six years in Fidesz-KDNP has clearly shown that you have never counted on the country's public security, but that it was calculated to you how much you pay, how much you will profit economically from the business that is close to the Prime Minister. This is the biggest problem with this, that we do not see the guarantee that this will happen in this case either. To sum this up, it can be seen that this law is largely eligible, but there are elements in this law that make it a good heart, I think that no party and no Member of Parliament can vote in favour. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2021-10-20-98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-20-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I do not want to disappoint the world, so I must express my disappointment that Jobbik does not support digital administration and transition, and Mr Csaba Gyüre does not vote for this important amendment. Putting humor aside, I think basically about the bill before us, as said by the Secretary of State and my fellow Member Péter Ágh, since the central aim of the bill is to implement modernisations and new central electronic administration services that can increase the scope of tasks that can be performed without contact in the public administration, the modernisation and digitalisation of procedures will make it easier and more efficient for citizens, reduce administrative and bureaucratic burdens for both customers and administrators, and further increase security, as the period of emergency has also highlighted the need for new electronic administration services to be used as widely as possible. The bill provides an opportunity to increase the use of artificial intelligence in procedures. The bill before us is another step towards cutting red tape, reducing administrative burdens and extending electronic administration as widely as possible. An important objective for the Fidesz-KDNP government is to build a customer-centred service state and an efficient, modern public administration, which makes everyday life easier for Hungarian people. I would like to point out here that on many occasions I have said that every bill that reduces bureaucracy and reduces people's daily waiting time, administration, paperwork to be submitted and correspondence with public offices can be supported on the basis of principles, because it is very important that the state, in this respect the bureaucratic state, should be kept out of people's daily lives as much as possible and that the administration should be as simple as possible. The reduction of administrative and bureaucratic burdens is, in our opinion, at least as important as the reduction of tax burdens, and during the epidemiology period, there has been a greater appreciation of lineless online administration than ever before. In recent years, a number of significant steps have also been taken in this direction, which has made the administration much simpler, faster and more digitised. Today, more than 4 million of our countrymen have access to customer portals, government windows are quickly and easy to manage, with online appointments, without standing, and in a short time you can handle some 2,500 cases. In addition, it is worth mentioning that as of 1 January this year, the administration of one and a half million administrative matters has become free and free of charge. It is free, inter alia, to issue the first licence, the moral certificate four times a year, the identity card, the address card, the business card, the student card, the birth certificate, the administrative procedures at first instance, and the administrative procedural duty has been abolished. My fellow Members also spoke about the other elements of the salad law, but I would like to respond to the migration issues, which Csaba Gyüre also said, and what has been said here several times. We must continue to prepare for the increasing migratory pressure in the coming period. According to the German Minister for the Interior, the number of immigrants leaving Afghanistan and its neighbourhood is estimated to be between 500,000 and 5 million. I think it is right to pay particular attention to the security of this country. There are also elements in this bill, although they are obviously not as pronounced as the electronicisation of public administration and administration; there are also proposals in this bill that increase the security of the country. The Member, my better fellow Member, spoke for a long time about the term digital nomad. I wouldn't say the definition now either, but we can certainly see that this is an area in which Hungary is a positive target, a popular target, bringing tax revenues, for the hosts, for the hosts and for the various service providers. It is therefore worth regulating this area in such a way that it provides a framework appropriate to both users, entrepreneurs and the state. So, what my fellow Member Péter Ágh said, especially because of the most serious elements of the law and the nature of the salad law, the KDNP fraction will also support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-20-100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, who will present the opinion of the MSZP faction. Here you go.
u2021-10-20-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, This law isn't about what you told me. It's not about that. Are you talking about Chatrobots, Mr. Secretary, or are you talking about a partial amendment to the rules of one of the laws? Before we get to the bottom of this, let's start a little warm-up. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, what you didn't say. Is it aimed at modernising individual procedures or further strengthening the security of citizens in this bill to amend the law on sport, under which the new multifunctional sports and event hall in Budapest, built under 129 Üllői út, will be transferred to the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club? We are talking about billions, perhaps hundreds of billions, of real estate built again from public money. Is it aimed at modernising individual procedures or further strengthening the security of citizens to amend the Public Finance Act, which provides for further restrictions on the right of public hospitals to commit? In order to try to say it in Hungarian, urban hospitals will no longer have as much leeway and decision-making rights as they have so far, and they will have to ask the managing county institution or the president of the clinical centers in advance if the hospital has to make extra expenses for any healing. These two parts have nothing to do with the title of the law, nor with strengthening the safety of people, nor with modernising procedures. But let's face it, the essence of this law is what. This law fits into the line that unfortunately had to be discussed yesterday with regard to the other salad law submitted by the Minister of Justice, and this is the transfer of power and money to the opposition period. However, as long as this law goes on, and I am not surprised that the Minister did not wish to be here personally, nor did the home affairs area, in particular, my fellow Members, in political terms, it is a coup d'état. Well, what do you think? ! In this bill, basically, mining oversight powers will be removed, the entire institutional system will be plotted and these responsibilities and authority will be allocated to the doghouse that Rogán has dreamed of. I could say his name for a long time, but I don't think the dog at the gun range cares, it doesn't make any sense. It made sense to establish the entire authority that all areas that have been hotbeds of corruption for the last 11 years, traffikmoty, gambling concessions, I think, for the future, the concession and distribution of thousands of billions of dollars' worth of motorways will now be added to these areas. [[15.40]] How interesting that when the decisions come in line, such as the resignation of the president of the national media authority, and then the cementation of someone for nine years, that they can keep the Hungarian media under a leash and a muzzle, if not otherwise! By the way, we have this bill, but there are many other examples, such as the amendment of the Constitution, the creation of private foundations, the incorporation of thousands of billions of public funds and public wealth. In this line, they venture to the point where the Prime Minister's family has a legitimate or at least seemingly billion-dollar business, which is the mining company of Győző Orbán. In terms of political history, the credibility of the Prime Minister and the credibility of his entire policy, it would be worth considering how a party secretary in the '90s will become a billionaire mining-owner, how the Prime Minister can refer to the fact that the kingship of 60 Puszta, which is built there, is not his, it is the family company's, it is the hard-earned, hard-earned, billions of hours earned from decent mining every day. But in this law, you will now be pledging yourself and this supervisory authority, and then giving it to the authority, which is otherwise independent of the government, or at least independent of Parliament, I think it is outrageous. But what is the category of coup d'état is that you will have to look at this in line with the other proposal, and the head of this authority will not be acquitted by the Prime Minister and appointed by the Prime Minister, but will only be given to Viktor Orbán, but will transfer this power to the President of the Republic in preparation for a possible change of government next year. Here, you would think for a moment what a beautiful institution the President of the Republic is, but immediately remembers that, before the elections, you are also preparing for the next five years, for the next five years, the fidesz majority of this Parliament will put in one of its regular cadres with Fidesz Party Books, and the circle is closed. This case not only shows that there is nothing more sacred than the conc, the money, personally to the Prime Minister, but also that this institution, the Hungarian Parliament, and the people's representation are being used to rescue the wealth and secure both the pro-state power and the concot acquired here for the next period. I don't agree with how they've dared so far. You really don't think anyone can see what's going on? To establish an authority that Viktor Orbán appoints as Prime Minister for nine years, and when the elections come, will he be transferred to the President of the Republic? Well, why don't you transfer it to the head of the post office, or, I don't know, the crown guard? Then it doesn't matter, does it? ! It's like when Judit Varga says he doesn't even do the authorisation of secret service materials because he handed it over to the Secretary of State at the Ministry, or he doesn't know that the doorman might allow it. That's about the seriousness! I told you yesterday, I will conclude today, Mr Secretary of State: there is nothing to talk about this law, this is one of your most shameful proposals, at least because others have already lost their minds before the House. They're pushing it so far, Mr. Secretary, that the knife in the people's pockets is going to open completely. Please understand, if you go on this path, and we know that in the autumn session you will entertain the Parliament and the people with about these, even further, further, further down, further down this level and down this slide, these decisions will make people so angry at themselves that what I have heard from Gergely Gulyás will be fulfilled on Monday. Gergely Gulyás's dream is that if we want to change these decisions, we will have to change the government by two thirds. If you really show people that their lives, their fates, theirs, to say that they have nothing to do with you to help their misery or sorrow, but that the Prime Minister's business and family business is in order, that they are putting two thirds of them in concrete and stuffing them here and there, I think they are taking serious steps, Mr. Secretary, in the direction that next year they will really bring you to a two-thirds majority where they can rest and think about the meaning of life. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-10-20-102	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Gergely Arató, who presents the opinion of the DK Group. Here you go, notary.
u2021-10-20-103	Thank you very much. Dear House, I would like to continue where the Member has left off, because this proposal is indeed full of elements that are unacceptable. But the most outrageous of these is the regulation that refers the regulation of mining issues to the scope of this particular theft authority. This authority was created for this purpose directly, this is the department of dirty affairs, where tobacco, gambling, casino, any matter from which the Fidesz elite and his circle of friends see the path of rapid but little moral enrichment. It seems that this amendment of the law is actually a confession. Admitting that mining has also entered these activities, I would say, with some or no slight confusion, that mining has also become such a fidesz gold mine. In other words, this is about eliminating a very well-functioning professional control. I believe that Congressman Bellozó's imagination is not yet sufficiently advanced for your world, because this is not just about the Orbán family. Of course, it's good for them to have a buddy-based mining permit, but if someone goes to the southeast part of Pest County, to Dabas, Bugyi, Kiskunlacháza, Delegyháza or Dunavarsány, they can see that they open new gravel mines in practically every meter, they destroy the entire landscape, turn half a county into a lunar industrial landscape. The farmers you love and protect so much from us, they take away their land, where their families have been farming for generations, except for the TS era, but they still kept track of that land as theirs. And if the congressman of the area, Mr. Károly Pánczél, is to be called to account, the only answer is to understand, we need the gravel for the Budapest-Belgrád railway, and we need the gravel for the construction of the Paks nuclear power plant. Now, that's what you're trying to make easier, your goal is that this kind of activity, which, although beneficial to a few, is destroying the lives of many, without any restrictions. Of course, this is not just the problem of this region, it is very similar in Pest County and in other parts of the country. Mines open up with surface cultivation of gravel, mining stones without any regulation or authorisation, to be more precise: there is one today, but I would like to avoid this. Let it be clear that they are not ruining some sort of socialist scheme or bureaucracy here. The predecessor of one of the services that has now been terminated has already been consolidated and crippled by geological and geological service, which was established in 1869 and has since operated, of course, under the name of Hungarian royal geological service. Now they're erasing the trail, they've merged it before, and I'm telling you once again, most of the activity has been terminated, and now they're essentially erasing it. The regulation of mining was one of the oldest operating royal, if you like, state regulatory activities, its roots dates back to the Middle Ages, but they also established the Hungarian organization after the settlement. So nearly 150 years old or over 150 years old institutions are being destroyed here because they stand in the way of environmental destruction, stand in the way of business and stand in the way of the enrichment of certain very narrow business circles. I must say, regardless of the specific cases, that this is an activity, an act that is absolutely contrary to any well-conceived national interest, to any public good. This process will only have a few private benefits, and these services will have to be rebuilt with great difficulty. There are professionals here. Can you imagine how many years it takes to get the kind of expertise you need to allow a mine to open or to regulate recultivation? [[15.50]] It is not that someone from the University of Public Service, by the way, comes out with a recent degree in party cadre training, and it can be immediately set to decide how far to break the ground, what kind of recultivation is needed, and I can continue for a long time. Here, from generation to generation, the professionals who did this work in the mining service and in the Geological Institute have been training each other for many decades. That's what you're shutting down right now. Your so-called national government has wiped down the protection of monuments, and now it's destroying mining and geologic expertise. You don't need it, you just need political decisions, and these political decisions, I'm afraid, are very often strongly motivated by financial decisions. I would like to say one more thing briefly. This, in connection with asylum procedures, is the introduction of a rule which now introduces a presumption of a threat to national security in the current, completely opaque and uncontrollable alien police procedures. Now, who's to say who's threatening national security and public security? Well, the Hungarian authorities will tell you. You'll tell me who's threatening him. I have to say that this certainly sounds good here in Parliament; then, Mr Secretary of State, you will also say that criminal migrants will be expelled here now, while we know that criminal migrants, led by Mr Gruevski, are being brought into Hungary by government diplomats, while, on the basis of these rules, you are already denying nationality very often today, or, on the grounds of these uncertain assumptions, the right of residence will be taken away from people who have lived in Hungary for twenty to thirty years. Be clear, though Secretary of State, I think you will misinterpret it, if there is a real threat to national security, if one's activities are contrary to national security, or if it endangers public security, it must be done, and we agree with that, even if he is a Hungarian citizen, even if he is a foreign national. If you're a foreign national, there's a place to withdraw your residence permit, that's the way it is. What is wrong with what is wrong is that there is no well-managed procedure behind it, there is no need for proof, there is no legal remedy, because the courts are forced to decide on these matters in such a way that, by the way, the state has little to prove. It's the same today, and now they're just gonna take it easy. I understand that this can be used to pick up political strings, and on the grounds of alienism and national security, everything can be sold, but it's still inhumane. Here, people who do not pose any real danger are being laid out of the country under such rules. On the basis of some unproven, suspected suspicion, the residence permit will be revoked for people who have lived in Hungary for 20, 30, 40 years, where appropriate their children and their love in this country. I have to say that I understand that this is a politically good move, I'm sure you'll get a vote, but it's still inhumane. And once again, if you take this a little seriously and enter that anyone who arrives in Hungary in order to avoid criminal proceedings or to assume it is possible to refuse residence permits and refugee rights, this is very excellent. And why did Mr Gruevski come to Hungary? Is it because you thought you wanted to do business, or do you feel better? Or are Viktor Orbán's friends free? Only if there's someone else, isn't it allowed? I think it would be worth it in migration policy, in the case of alien law enforcement, a little bit... I understand that you want a strict migration policy, I understand that you want strict foreign law enforcement rules. I do not dispute that there are many places in today's world, by the way, that you should not fall on the other side of the horse, but I must say that you are treating this as a political tool, and you do not even pay attention to the appearance that it is really about protecting the country from something.
u2021-10-20-104	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give word to Congressman Adam Steinmetz, the representative of Jobbik. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-10-20-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The legislative amendment before us is to be called a salad law by many, since it contains several amendments, and not surprisingly, I wish to comment on the proposal amending Act I of 2004 in its maiden name the sport law, more precisely a question, a comment here in Parliament. The essence of the amendment is that the Folkliget Sports Hall, built by the Hungarian State from more than 100 billion forints, has a capacity of nearly 20 thousand people, it is state property, the management of this property will be handed over to the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club in the future, more precisely: Parliament is now asked to vote on this matter. The Annex to the Sports Act provides that certain State-owned sports facilities may be transferred to associations. By the way, you can get MTK, Vasas, and more, others, although most of all Ferencváros owns such high-value property and sports facilities. My question is this, and I would like to get an answer here: have you prepared an impact study on the operation of the sports hall? Can this be run in a profitable way, a brand-new one, and I think it's absolutely a Western European-style sports hall that suits the needs of the age? So it can be run profit-oriented? If the answer is yes, then the question arises why the Hungarian State cannot do this, why the NSK, the specialized body of which operates a lot of sports facilities, and this is its main profile. If this cannot be run in a profitable way, or at least according to preliminary expectations, why would it be given to Ferencváros to generate losses at Ferencváros? I don't think it's good in any way to do this to such a long-standing association. Another question is that, if it is profitable, and it really is that we may be in favour of Ferencváros, then the question arises why the other associations may not be able to apply for it, so either the MTK, Újpest, Vasas I mentioned earlier, or I could go on with it. So why don't we ask who's interested? In addition to the fact that the sports hall I mentioned is located in Népliget, so close to the sports facilities of Ferencváros, let us not discuss this, but it is still state-owned. And if we're really on the ground of correctness, then it should also be said that Ferencváros already has three or four handball sports facilities there in the IX. in the district, so I think you can manage the competition and training of both the adult team and the reinforcement teams. I don't want to add any more, I'm curious about that, and please give me a reassuring answer as to whether or not this can be run in a profitable way. And if I can't, then why is Francis City getting it? And if you can, I'll also ask you why Ferencváros. Perhaps, if my fellow Member Nacsa, who regularly spoke in sports matters, if he had the answer, I would thank him. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-10-20-106	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, please, you have the floor.
u2021-10-20-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Thank you very much for the comments, in particular the pro-government contributions in which you supported, provided support for the bill, which will certainly improve the level of electronic administration after its adoption, opening up to citizens opportunities for electronic administration, which will ensure that we catch up with the countries leading Europe in this area. Public security issues, which have been addressed by several opposition representatives, I must say in particular in the case of migration issues that all our regulations are in line with and in synchronised with the government's policies so far, and are also in line with the EU's ambitions. [[16.00]] In the case of arrivals on vessels and ships, the check of passenger lists is as important as in the case of air transport, and the necessary IT system and legal background have been established. A significant part of the speeches did not essentially deal with the law or not with the professional part of the law, but with the accusations made regularly by the opposition, which the opposition considered to be real and the extension of them, which, I believe, do not affect the effectiveness of this law in any way. So I am quite sure that if the law is adopted, it will serve the above-mentioned objectives well. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-20-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik: When will they give a fair answer to the questions of the Somogyans? He said that he had spoken after the agenda. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-10-20-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have been a Member of Parliament for three and a half years, and I have spoken here more than a hundred times, using my modest opportunity. I have brought here, revealed and asked questions to government officials about the problems affecting the people of Somogy, primarily in sports matters, and also for the sake of my narrower country, Somogy. One Member of Parliament basically has two tasks: one is the creation of laws and the other is the control of the executive power, the government, and he can do this by asking oral or written questions in different forms and waiting for answers. If you like, this is also an obligation for Members of Parliament, but it is the government's duty to answer, to answer fair questions, to give honest answers. And what are you guys gonna do about it in time? I ask almost any question of a professional nature and I think that I really do ask the questions of the people of Somogy in a normal, cultural way, without cynicism, without any personalism, unappreciable answers. But to give a concrete example: when I ask what exactly will be the future of the hospital in Marcal, what improvements will be expected, what concrete things are expected from the government decision, then Minister of State Bence Rétvári, who is the number two in charge of the health government in Hungary, will give an answer, I quote: "It would be worth asking Imré László there on the left, who is the health politician of the left on behalf of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Well, I can't understand it when 11 years ago, if I remember correctly, Fidesz-KDNP is on the government, then why should the mayor of NewBuda be asked what the future of the Marcal hospital would be, what will be the fate of the Marcal hospital? ! But I'm moving on. When I ask Mr.Miklós Soltész to extend the institution of the village CSOK, which I considered to be extremely good, to be deprived of its locality, to the Gyotapus, Bizé, Croatian fountain, Boronka, and to the Szőlőskislak attached to Boglár in the 1990s, which I believe would be in the interest of over a thousand Somogyi people, to those who live there and want to renovate, and to thousands of those who might want to move there, then what do you reply, Mr. Secretary of State, I also quote: you did not support the support for home creation as opposition party, left-wing party. I don't even get it, so they're just not answers! And I don't understand, because either you can't, or you simply don't want to answer, or it's out there that any questions arise, just the left, only the ringing, and believe me, the Somogy people don't want to hear that. Not to mention that these questions are typically published in writing several days earlier and I am insisting on the text. Hundreds of employees in the Ministry would have time and opportunity to provide professional and correct answers. But on the other hand, all they do is puff propaganda sargons, and all they do is ignore not me, but the people of Somogy, and humiliate them, and base their problems, because when Secretary Bence Rétvári replied to them, yes, to them! That Gyurcsány, then Anda on Facebook wrote: 11 years we've been listening to this. And Violet returned her message, saying not the answer, but only attacking the old Gyurcsány government, and we are here now. And when Miklós Soltész replied that he thought that the left was the left, I quote: in a normal democratic country, the government member will be immediately replaced for such an answer. And Erika said, "The Secretary of State's answer is not an answer, it's a shame." You have taken the floor precisely from my lips, my fellow Members, this is a disgrace! I would like to point out once again that when they give me answers like this, they give answers like this to people in Somogy, they humiliate them, they ignore their problems, and this goes against everything they have previously sworn to. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-10-20-110	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. I'm closing the meeting. I wish you all a good rest.
