u2021-02-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I salute my fellow Members and all those who monitor our work. The second day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be helped by Attila Gelencsér and László Varga. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The other day I received a letter from the mayor of Pécs, in which he discussed the economic situation of Pécs for a long time, and supported by calculations, he said that the city had a loss of HUF 3.7 billion in 2020, of which 2.9 billion was due to the economic downturn and 0.8 billion was central withdrawal. The expected situation will be even worse by 2021, with a loss of 5.6 billion, of which 2.7 billion can be attributed to the economic downturn and 2.9 billion to central withdrawal. Overall, in the two years around 9.3 billion are expected to be lost in the city, of which 3.7 billion are due to central withdrawals. In 2021, there was an economic situation in the city in which losses exceed more than 15% of the total budget. Consequently, the city is not very capable of what to do, and it cannot solve this problem on its own. But there are obviously similar problems facing many rural cities and the capital. The Orbán government usually answers this question to solve this problem by the cities themselves, because the government does not have any more money, and everyone in the crisis will probably have to take their share of the crisis and I will probably get them in response to the Secretary of State. But this argument is not true, this is not correct, because the government has room for manoeuvre, because, unlike the municipalities, the government can take out loans, as it has done in the last year, because the general government deficit has been set at over 9 per cent, and besides, what is very important is that the government will be able to open up the bank of EU funds: Hungary will receive HUF 2800 billion from the recovery fund. And then, if we look back to December, we can see that in December the Orbán government distributed HUF 2250 billion to projects of which I would like to mention only a few, although my fellow Members have mentioned them earlier: 43 billion for sports investments, 49 billion for foreign representation support, 94.5 billion for Tihanyi Foundation, and, of course, for Fidesz-near NER companies. The Prime Minister tried to reassure us, opposition representatives, yesterday, that not only did NER companies receive these subsidies, but also the Red Barons. I am not at all satisfied with this because I think that neither the NER entrepreneurs nor the red barons should be able to provide money; rather, it would be important if the subsidies were to focus on small and medium-sized enterprises that can really function effectively, which bring in technical and technological shifts that contribute to exports. Of this 2250 billion, only 28.6 billion were allocated to local authorities, but also to municipalities with fidesz management. What does the Orbán government have to say for all of us? He says that he does not consider half of Hungarian citizens to be part of the nation. He does not want to take care of the citizens of the large cities in Budapest, the rural ones, those who did not vote for him. In democracy, such a thought is possible, and in fact there is, but it is not tolerated. In democracy, all people matter, even those who are oppositional. Hungary needs a government that supports all its citizens; in 2022 we hope that the country will have such a democratic government, which will support all its citizens, and we will be able to send the Orbán government to where it belongs: the historic sink, the other non-democratic parties, as this is the residual relic of an old age. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause, where's the applause?]]
u2021-02-16-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Mellar. State Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond to the speech before the agenda.
u2021-02-16-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let us begin with the most serious part of this: we are in the middle of a pandemic, we are struggling with the health and economic effects of a pandemic, and this requires cooperation for all countries. Everyone must play their part in the defence, and I would like to thank both health workers and those working in the social sphere, law enforcement bodies, the public administration sector and those working in the local government for taking their part in the fight against the epidemic. In the context of this cooperation and this need for cooperation, it is worth evaluating who does what and exactly how. First of all, the situation of the municipalities: the municipalities are in a much better position in economic terms, compared to those experienced in previous years, in previous decades. [[9.10]] After 2010, the government freed the municipalities from debt of more than 1400 billion forints and pulled them out of the spiral that the socialist-free Democrat government pushed them into by putting the tasks into the municipalities and diverting funds. If you look at the figures, whether we are talking about state budget subsidies, or you are talking about your own revenue, such as business tax revenues, which are directly linked to economic performance, then we also see that the resources and revenues available to municipalities have increased steadily in the period prior to the crisis. In addition, the Government of Hungary has launched special development programs according to the types of settlements, and a separate development programme was launched for the smallest settlements, the Hungarian villages after 2018. In the case of cities with county rights, these development programmes ran even before the 18th elections, in the previous government cycle. In this context, every county-righted city, regardless of its political leadership, is also receiving serious government subsidies of a hundred billion-dollar magnitude from the city of Pécs, mentioned by you. These are infrastructure improvements, improvements in lifestyle, quality of life, and, by the way, while this is already mentioned, for example, they are devoted to development related to university development. This is the situation in which the epidemic hit us in 2020. We think that, in contrast to the socialist-free Democrat crisis management before 2010, people need to be helped, not the people in an epidemic situation. So we need government incentives and measures that don't take resources away from people, they give it to them. This is why we have started home-building grants, which is why we have started wage support programmes, which is why doctors have received a historical wage increase in this situation, which is why we have decided to return the 13th month pension, which is why there is a credit moratorium from the beginning of the crisis, which is why we have decided to release personal income tax to people under the age of 25 from 22 and that small and medium-sized enterprises will receive an interest-free loan. This line includes other tax reduction measures, which you did not support on the left, and even a rule had to be made not to raise taxes, so that people would not be bullied in this situation. The discharge of business tax revenue for small and medium-sized enterprises you mentioned... does not take away these resources from the government. It's a misunderstanding or a malicious misinterpretation on your part. These resources remain in small and medium-sized enterprises because their survival, survival of people, the protection of jobs and the survival of businesses are the most important. Ask those businesses whether this tax waiver will help them. I think you're helping them. Everyone who's ever signed up knows exactly how much it helps. You mentioned your relationship with socialist governance. Honourable Congressman, Before 2010, you were a major critic of the socialist-free Democratic government that you have been a retainer of at this moment, starting in 2018, and in 22 you are now attacking the national right-wing government on their behalf. So if there's someone who keeps spinning around his axis, it's not the Government of Hungary, it's you. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn applied for a pre-meeting speech:, How can domestic violence be reduced in Hungary? It's an address. The LMP congresswoman has the floor.
u2021-02-16-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, during the outbreak of the Crown Virus, domestic violence has increased, and I am experiencing this both in the press and in my wider environment, so there are also a lot of articles in the press about such unfortunate events. I am not deliberately talking about relationship violence, because not only can such domestic violence come from a partnership or marital relationship, but we know a number of these outstanding cases against children or even parents. In recent years, the legislation has been tightened, i.e. sentences and so on. I am very pleased that such legislation has come before this House, but I think that there is still a lot of work to be done, and I would therefore like to ask you to do a few things that you would like to do and review both the signalling system and the control system itself, as well as the various areas that could influence this process. For example, it is important to look at why victims remain hidden, why many such acts of violence remain hidden. In many cases, based on our observations and my observations, they do not know where to turn, they do not dare to turn to the authorities, because in Hungary the abused have to flee, they are the ones who have to leave their homes. We know of a European example where this is not the case, but the perpetrator of violence is the one who has to leave the common home and not the abused one. In addition, the professional supply system is very busy. According to the profession, there are few professionals in the social care system in general. We have proposed the introduction of a minimum salary, which, unfortunately, the committees will sweep off every time, but we will not give up. We consider it very important that the workers in this sector have a lot more anti-burn training or supervision that helps them to deal with the traumas they have suffered here, so that what they experience during the investigation or assistance of the cases should be easier for them to process and not be so out of touch. It is important that their working conditions should be further improved, in particular with regard to their safety. There have been cases where there have been serious threats to family or child welfare workers or even social services workers. There is a country where there is a panic button in the workplace, in the offices, that sends a signal through computers to people in the surrounding offices, and so these people may feel safer there. So it is important that we look at this part carefully. In addition, sensitivity is extremely important both among police staff and here, in the family - support service and in school. So if the teacher sees signs of such violence on a child, he too should dare to take action and turn to the authorities. In addition, along with the punishments, it would be important for the perpetrator of such acts to have psychic care in prison. [[9.20]] So they should be examined for what it is that makes them do this, and if there is a psychic disease behind it, they should also be sent to a mandatory hijacking and even subject to psychiatric and psychiatric treatment. So I think that there is still little to do about domestic violence. It can be seen that the ruling parties do not want to ratify the Istanbul Convention, because there are sentences in it that contradict their values, so please remove from it the sentences that are not like that, and then take these steps that are acceptable to you. It is also a very important fact that we are fighting the coronal virus now, but closeness brings out aggression from many, unfortunately, and it is expected that there will be more such cases, and that the number of victims should be reduced if they are completely eliminated for the time being, it seems that they will not succeed. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-02-16-6	Thank you, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds.
u2021-02-16-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I would like to thank you for the tone of speech, because, indeed, in these epidemiological times, we must pay particular attention to victims, the presence of contact violence, its prevention, the protection of their sufferers and the prevention of further cases as effectively as possible. I also thank you for not only the criticism of the speech, but also for the forward-looking proposals, the proposals showing the knowledge of the actual system. I also thank you for having been able to mention the measures that have taken place in the last ten years, starting with the tightening of the 2012 Btk. to make contact violence a separate reality. I am also talking about specific violence in relations because we always say that we can protect a much wider circle than just focus on a narrow family, and unfortunately, violence outside families is more present than I would like to say in the public address or in the press or even in the various organisations. It is also fortunate that the kind of vision you are talking about, perhaps by making the system of victim protection more sophisticated and more accessible, those crisis centres and other measures become available; the kinds of contacts that often go beyond specific legislation in the police department, guardianship, court, prosecutor's office or in the penal system are being made. So they themselves make it available to those who need these protections, following the spirit of the legislation, more explainable. These all prove that, perhaps, in the increase of case numbers, if statistically detectable, although there are a variety of statistics, and there can, of course, always be debates, perhaps we have made progress in the field of vision in the past, and in this area, we have also managed to broaden the type of activity in which both EMMI and the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Justice, public administration workers, police officers, prosecutors, court staff, judges are all committed to serving. We can talk about results. We know in the Justice Department last year was the year of victim support. We can also see that victim support centres are constantly opening up: after Budapest, we know, in Szombathely, Miskolc, last year in Pécs, Kecskemét, Szeged, and by 2025 we want to achieve a full coverage at county level, so that these victim assistance centres can operate in all counties of Hungary. I am talking about them separately because they belong to the Ministry of Justice and, on the other hand, these centres have no authority. So it is for the authorities to be able, if they are aware of such a case, to refer to the victim support centers, to direct those who have suffered injury. The other part is that last year there was a special task force dealing with these issues and that the human rights task force also dealt with them. About 60 organisations have been involved, and hundreds of pages of material have been created in this area, which also appears point by point in the legislation. We know that by tightening the rules on criminal proceedings, by tightening the institution of detention to this particular crime group, by excluding conditional release, which appears on the side of criminal law, but I'm telling you, thinking in a complex system, I believe that we have made very significant progress last year, and I hope that this work will continue this year. Let me ask the Member to continue to inspire us, and if there are such speeches or comments, we can always see them as an incentive, and I think that if we could move forward in this manner in other areas, then a much healthier political climate could develop in the country, so thank you once again for your speech. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-8	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. The next statement before the agenda is the address of Ms Anett Bősz, DK:. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-02-16-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last year, the general government deficit became fifteen times the originally planned one. This would not be a problem in itself, as our fellow Europeans have temporarily suspended the strict Maastricht criterion on this issue, and I think that this is very right. At the same time, we have to be aware that even the Republicans of the United States have argued and voted in favour of the fact that there is a need to replace demand now, indeed, this is a different type of crisis, a type of crisis that we have never known before, and therefore should not be based on what your government refers to as order that they do not want this country to be based on aid, they have not helped people who really needed it. In order to increase demand, only the aid that arrives in a few weeks will be eligible when one of the biggest problems occurs. Quoting the Prime Minister, the temptation to return to the aid-based economy during the crisis has been overcome, but I think that the crisis itself has not been overcome, despite the fact that not only social, but also economic protection considerations have dictated what the opposition argued and, in addition to which my colleagues have argued today, the amount and duration of the job-seeking allowance have not increased, nor has the family allowance been increased. It can also be said that we are increasing these temporarily and, of course, these must be increased temporarily, because I agree with you, especially as liberal, that it is essentially the income from work that brings forward and results in economic growth, but at this moment it would have been necessary to prevent these aids and these aids. I would like to give you a list of some items from the central budget that show that less than ten percent of the amounts paid under the economic security fund have gone to real crisis management. The 150 billion HUF spent across the border is capable of raising sympathy for some kind of government, but it cannot increase domestic demand by a penny. The HUF 35 billion allocated to government propaganda can be used for the government's popularity, but it cannot alleviate the economic crisis. Support for investments cannot generate demand on a daily basis. Although I myself have repeatedly said that I can agree that if catering units are closed, at least give the construction industry a job and in this way save another economic sector somewhat. However, you, my fellow members of the Government, did not vote in favour of the small entrepreneurs and helped them survive the crisis, who are most likely now suffering the consequences of the economic crisis in an extraordinary way, but I am listing: Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz have now received another HUF 28 billion; but most of the funds were also available to the churches; the HUF 215 billion paid for sports purposes could hardly alleviate the small entrepreneurs' problem of gradually being obliged to say goodbye to their colleagues, not only because they arrived late, but in many cases the wage support they had not received has not been particularly needed for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[9.30]] I would also like to draw your attention with great respect to the fact that the HUF 10 million preferential credit facility is likely to result in small businesses who are already making a significant debt to themselves due to the crisis in 2020 that they will now replace the debts of their business with the debt of their household, as they will mortgage their own property. I do not think that putting small business families in a worse position can be interpreted as part of a package to alleviate the economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, The governing parties have undoubtedly been good at dealing with so-called crises that were not real. Remember that Viktor Orbán himself praised the crisis management of the Bajnai government and the former left-wing and liberal governments, and at that time, when this started, the 2010 government started in a booming economy. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, that if you do not agree with this, I think that on the one hand we should not yell at...
u2021-02-16-10	Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-11	...and on the other hand, there's a real crisis. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It would've been nice to treat you. I couldn't have done it. Thank you.
u2021-02-16-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2021-02-16-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and His speech has actually brought us nothing new for pro-government. They're looking for a catch on the government to deal with the economic crisis. It would be nice to find a big catch to prove that the government is on the wrong track. However, he doesn't have any arguments, he doesn't have numbers, he doesn't have any statistics. However, in addition to the fact that the government has handled the crisis well, arguments can be put forward. If you don't mind, I'll bring some. First of all, work. The most important goal was to preserve jobs while protecting people's health. In this context, you do not argue that four and a half million people worked in de-cember 2020, as many as before the crisis. This means that the jobs have been preserved; the most important goal, however, has been retained by the government through its actions that you criticized, and with the support of investments, which you have also criticised in an incomprehensible way, you will certainly be able to create new jobs this year and in the coming years the Hungarian economy will be able to create new jobs. As far as the decline in GDP is concerned, this is the case everywhere in the world, including in Europe, and the figures for the decline in GDP will be published at the pan-European level in days. What we know so far, however, is that economic growth in Hungary has fallen by just over 5 percent. We are certainly not among the last countries in Europe. Most of all, we will be among the better performing countries. [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] Interestingly, in December 2020, the volume of industrial production has already increased by 5.8 percent. More interestingly, during the crisis, from January to November, net wages increased by 9.6% and real wages increased by 6 percent during the same period. The construction performance has been increasing for six months. In November, it increased by 12.1 percent compared to the previous month's values. What is very interesting is that during the pandemic, Hungary received HUF 1676 billion of investment, which indicates that international capital, who wants to invest, sees Hungary as a sure target during the epidemic, despite the epidemic and despite opposition criticisms. As far as the level of the budget deficit is concerned, it has indeed become high, and obviously our debt ratio has also increased significantly. However, you must also remember that there is a global economic crisis, which was in Hungary ten years ago. Ten years ago, public debt increased, but the number of unemployed grew by hundreds of thousands. Now the number of unemployed has not increased. At the time of crisis management ten years ago, when the government deficit increased and public debt increased, people's income decreased, nominal and real wages decreased, and now it has increased in an interesting way, as I have said, both real wages and net nominal wages. At the time, the investments did not arrive in Hungary, but on the contrary: the capital left the country. The interesting thing is that while, during your crisis management, the pensions fell, they took away the 13th month, now they get it back; there was no wage support, now there is wage support; there is no increase in the doctor's wages and no decrease in the level of personal income tax. I think this is a completely different crisis management, effective and effective crisis management, which the current government is doing. Thank you.
u2021-02-16-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, yesterday, among the walls of Parliament, Viktor Orbán himself, the nation's biggest fake news producer, said things with an unscrupulous face, and listed data that one really listened to in awe. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't believe it. Dr. Pál Völner: Reality is amazing. The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact that the Prime Minister held a bank account reader's morning here yesterday morning with the capital is quite funny on his own, but he had to know and knew that what he was saying was false news. He knew, because he had to know that the figures he said here reflected the quasi-banking statement of a day when not only the capital, but the tax revenues of his districts were in the capital's account, but the capital had nothing to do with it. The reality on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, is that... [[István Szilárd Németh, laughing: Whoever owns the account has nothing to do with anything. Great. Deterioration in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Calm down, Szilárd Németh, my colleague [[István Szilárd Németh: I am completely calm.]] The reality, on the other hand, is that, for example, it is your own fault that, thanks to government restrictions, withdrawals and tax increases, the situation by 2021 has been quite amazing that Budapest will be a virtually net contributor, so it will receive less state aid than it will pay taxes to the central budget. This, by the way, fellow Members, is insane on its own, but certainly during a Covid epidemic! Nearly 40 percent of GDP is produced in Budapest. Compared to that, honourable Members, state aid will be enough this year to cover this one task of financing the BKV alone. All the other things the capital has every day in terms of organizing people's lives. [[Németh Szilárd István: For example?]] You just can't see what it's covered with. The Prime Minister also boasted that last year, in 2020 [[István Szilárd Németh: The chimney sweeps have just been released.]] 44 percent of the public and EU investment in the capital has arrived in Budapest; given, once again, that 40 percent of GDP is produced here, this would not be such a big deal in itself. But don't you think that the citizens of Budapest applaud for this money, including the hundreds of billions of the Prime Minister's and the members of the government, Mihály Varga, who move to Castle... to Parliament, for what a fantastic thing it is that the government supports Budapest in this way, and the construction of one and the other, and the third and fifth stadiums, while not giving money for the most basic tasks? ! Ladies and gentlemen, On 8 February, the European Parliament took a very important decision by an 85% majority, including the votes of the Fidesz MEPs. [[9.40]] This says that spending European Union funds must involve local governments, professional organisations and be subject to social debate. This is almost 6,000 billion forints of quick assistance, and it also means the distribution of 11 000 billion of seven-year budget money. I saw Balázs Orbán's Facebook entry, but it was supposed to be a joke, wasn't it, Mr. Secretary? You don't really think that the total amount of money I've just told you, which could determine the future of this country for decades, should be sent to the notary in a letter? I'll help you if you don't know who mayor of Szeged is, and I'll be happy to let you know after the meeting that this social consultation is sent to the notary, so if you have anything to add, send it by e-mail. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Answer me!]] This is social consultation, Mr. Secretary, this? ! [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: Yes! The president's ringing the bell.]] And to see what the Union wants to spend the money on.gov.hu? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes... You should see... Nacsa Lőrinc: Work...]] As far as Budapest is concerned, you are [[Intercoms from the benches of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. They want to spend the vast majority of EU funds on building a new stadium and its surroundings at the Southern city gate. [[István Szilárd Németh: Very good...]] That tells me everything about you. Compared to this, the capital would like to launch a comprehensive energy programme. Everyone remembers the panel program; it would spend the money not only on the panels, but on the property and property of the people of Budapest, as opposed to the renovation of your castle. We want to spend money on the development of public transport, because while we hear a lot that everything under Tarlos was great, we just don't know why there are dozens of polluting buses over a million kilometers on the premises if they have spent anything on it in the last ten years. So these are the most important things to fix drinking water, sewage and selective waste. Ladies and gentlemen, Mayors of cities with county rights [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , Fidesz and opposition have made it clear...
u2021-02-16-16	Thank you very much...
u2021-02-16-17	...that what they're doing to the local governments can't be held. We're asking you to change your policy. Thank you.
u2021-02-16-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2021-02-16-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It wasn't originally discussed that I would answer this, but I specifically asked that I respond, because he said such outrageous things that I was forced to correct, and I am obliged to draw attention personally to some contexts. The consultation and use of EU funds are also, in our view, key. For this reason, the State Secretary responsible for this area has consulted thousands of people through hundreds of different events, online and offline events, has sent a call for consultation to hundreds of organisations, and there have been dozens or hundreds of organisations responding to this. You know who didn't answer? Budapest. And you know who didn't answer? Left-wing authorities that are not doing their job, which are concerned not about the future of their cities, but about politics. There were left-wing municipalities, non-government governments, who knew what to do in this situation and were involved in this consultation. You know what's ridiculous? The ridiculous thing is that when there is a Council of Metropolitan Public Developments, which is specifically a forum on which the government and Budapest agree on development intentions, there are very different letters, information and declarations, let us discuss the issues there, then Budapest will not come up with any ideas about this. I live with the suspicion that because they don't have any idea, they have no idea what they want to do with this country and this town. The only thing they know is that if they can blame the government, they don't have to do anything. If you can communicate on Facebook that it's not good because of the government, you don't have to do anything. This has been described to you by one of the political advisors, and they have been clearly following this political advice ever since. Congratulations. I believe that the management of the municipalities is beyond that. Moreover, what developments are taking place in the city: after 85 billion in 2020, the metropolitan and district authorities will receive HUF 116 billion of operating budget support in 2021, with a third increase in their budget. In the framework of the program. Healthy Budapest, district medical offices are developing from HUF 50 billion. We provided HUF 200 billion for the ongoing renovation of metro line 3. In Debrecen, Szeged, Miskolc there is also a network of electricity, but only Budapest receives a budget for the operation of public transport, 12 billion HUF. With 3.2 billion we support bus purchases in the capital. We spent more than HUF 10 billion preparing the complete renewal of the HÉV line. We agreed that if Budapest needed help, we would take over the implementation of HUF 60 billion of urban development funding. In addition, we design bridges; we provide hundreds of millions of forints for feasibility studies; we expand the electricity grid at the University Bank; we renew Citadella and finish Biodom. By 2022, 1052 new vehicles will arrive. And only time limits me to continue with this list. Believe me, I could do it until morning, the next day, tomorrow morning. And you also mentioned the EU recovery fund. We implement the Budapest agglomeration railway strategy with HUF 2000 billion from this fund. The number of railway users can double and 115,000 fewer people can drive cars in central parts of the city. Who do you think these developments help if not the people of Budapest? [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops!]] Who do you think is okay with people not being able to travel on modern, modern public transport? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] I'm sorry, even if the government or the municipality is acting in connection with the spending of a development resource and project management, who do you think that development resource is helping? There is a project on which you are acting, it is called Lanchid here to be renovated by 6 billion more expensive, with a smaller technical content. So, again, they have problems with competence and corruption in areas where city leaders have gained power; the old record has returned, and the socialist-free Democrat dog before 2010 is right here. He's right here! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Kata Tüttő...]] And I understand that you want more resources, but unfortunately, these developments have to be implemented, and it's not enough just to communicate on Facebook. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] There's a saying: If you don't, brag, if you do, complain. You guys are really good at complaining. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-16-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Mr Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue to hold the debate here today, which we are already starting yesterday on the delegation law. I would like to point out that, continuing what the president and the candidate for Prime Minister Peter Jakab, President Jobbik of the People's Party, brought to the attention of Viktor Orbán quite clearly yesterday. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Why we cannot support this again, even though there was a dog sale in Buda once, we have given you the confidence. I'd like to highlight two things in the first round. First, Fidesz used this mandate to further develop its one-party overpowerment, both by amending the electoral law and by amending the electoral law. [[Nacsa Lőrinc spread his arms, "What's going on?"]] with the foundational transfer of more and more universities. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What do the two have to do with each other?]] I find it quite interesting, however, that the dismissed legion has already been partially reinstated by Viktor Orbán, here I am thinking of the flag bearers of the long-lost civil flag, István Stumpf, Tibor Navracsics. It seems that Viktor Orbán and Fidesz are so scared [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I thought Brenner Koloman...]] that in April 22 Hungarian citizens will finally replace them, that the dismissed legion is needed again. As a responsible intellectual [[Németh Szilárd István: Is this you?]] who took political action because I was horrified by this one-party overpowering Fidesz system, which I am well aware of by my age of the communist one-party system, Szilárd Németh State Secretary, I know you well, you are not [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Do you still support Ference Gyurcsány?]] And I think he's a responsible intellectual who really has a civil and conservative ideal. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You are so afraid of communism that you support Gyurcsány!]] As István Stumpf, I accept that from him, it cannot give his name and career to build such a Bolshevik one-party system. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Balázs Orbán: Let him decide! Dr. Bence Rétvári: What an intellectual comment that was!]] We see that Tamás Freund, president of the MTA... Have fun with Eric Cartman, and I want to tell my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, but let's not give out this kind of pep talk at the Mouszbul in Brussels, and not in the Parliament. Tamás Freund, president of the MTA, has received his punishment to see that, once in a very gentle manner, as a former prominent figure in the Batthyány Circle of Professors, he dared to tell the prominent Minister that the OTKA competitions may not be decided by the Minister, but by the professional gnomes intended for it. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] [[9.50]] He was punished, he was immediately removed from the Kossuth Prize Committee and received his reward from the executioner, Vidnyánszky, Mephisztó. Shame on you! That's your judgment, obviously. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The rule of law and corruption, all that characterizes you. It is no coincidence that, according to the latest corruption perception index, we are once again fighting with Romania and Bulgaria for the title of the most corrupt state in the European Union. Well, congratulations. 30 years ago, I remember that this is not what we promised Hungarian citizens, but prosperity and freedom. Good-bye and freedom, and not 30 years after the change of regime, we're competing again with the worst members of the Eastern bloc for the last place. People, comrades, do you really think that this is in line with what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said here yesterday in his rather surreal presentation? Let us admit that it is no coincidence that you now threaten the EUR 6.3 billion of Hungarian citizens with your irresponsible policy, because the draft that you have sent to the European Commission in its actions against corruption does not even deserve the word " draft." This is dangerous, this money goes to Hungarian citizens. Moreover, the media situation is something that was also highlighted in the 2018 OSCE report, in the elections, that the elections could be considered free, but not fair, because of the distorted media situation. Since 18, let's look at what has happened, another sad highlight of which is the closure of the Klubradio whose spirit we, as the only right centre party of the opposition, stand on a Christian-social basis [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We don't agree, but we're fighting to the end as a real civilian force. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Civil Power?! Not a citizen, Bulgarian! You love George of Bulgaria! Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] So that it can be simply turned down, not because of your factual overpower. You can see that you are afraid, trembling, that there will be a brighter future that has positive signs, because Peter James and Jobbik are the most popular among the under 35s. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: No! No!]] and the stand-up national unity government, in which Jobbik is the guarantee, is that nothing will come from what you do to deter Hungarian citizens. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You said you'd be punished by Ferenc Gyurcsány! Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] He'll send you where you belong, to the trash heap of history. It's gonna be a tough vote. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-16-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Tamás Schanda will respond to what has been said.
u2021-02-16-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that you may consider yourself a responsible intellectual, but that there is a problem with your memory, I'm sure. You know and know that the government has been given the authority to defend itself, but this is only used by the government to take the necessary measures to protect it. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Honourable Congressman, We were discussing the electoral law here in Parliament. Honourable Member, I have personally argued with you on issues of higher education. Why do you claim that the government would have abused any authority? You have been sitting here, and I respectfully remind you that you are not a member of the Hungarian government. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Thank God!]] in Hungarian, if we talk about this issue here, then it is quite certain that the debate is taking place before the public of the Parliament. Honourable Member, allow me to express my admiration for the fact that you are using the genre before the agenda to lobby for Clubradio in a situation where the situation is clear and clear in the context of the frequency issue of Clubradio. The Hungarian court has decided, and we believe that the decisions of the court and the Hungarian laws must be followed by everyone. You, as well as Klubradio, must comply with the law and take into account court decisions. Klubradio itself does not dispute that there has been a continuous infringement, but you consider it a scandal that a decision on frequency must be made on an open multi-player tender. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] In addition, in accordance with the judgment of the court, it is still necessary to take the next steps. Mr President, the fact is that you mentioned yesterday. Well, let's be perfectly clear. Mr President, you and your friends on the left have actually not changed at all. They haven't changed, they haven't voted to extend the emergency. If it had been up to you, the emergency would have ended on 22 February at midnight. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Honourable Member, you say many things, but you never do, never give the necessary support to the Hungarian people. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] Hungarian families and Hungarian companies. If it had been up to you, there would have been no sectoral wage support from 22 February, no credit moratorium, no tax and contribution reductions, no rent waivers. [[Intercoms, noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] there would be no general medical salary increase and no protection measures would have been taken. Congressman, that's exactly what you decided yesterday. Either you do not understand why protection measures are necessary, or you do not understand why it is necessary to give subsidies to companies, Hungarian families and Hungarian people, or you do not want to do so. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Congressman, that's the thing. Allow me also to draw attention to the fact that yesterday is also a good indicator of how the extreme right and the extreme are connected. You've arrived from the far right to the far left. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Of course, that's... Congressman, I've listened to you, too. Of course, this has a history. It is clear both in your speech and in your party president's speech that this has a historical history. We all know that the Arrowfinders have become the best AVH thugs. Mr President, this is the case, Mr President, and there is a historical history of this. And, Your Honour, if you... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Member, allow me to finish my speech. You even mentioned higher education. We also speak clearly in the area of higher education. We want Hungarian young people to be the winners of the future and the necessary changes in higher education can take place. But we are also talking about the fact that the government brought this to Parliament in the autumn session in the institutions where they considered it necessary to change models, and now the institutions themselves are asking that they also want to participate in the model change. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Honourable Member, you have worked in a higher education institution, respect academic autonomy, respect the decision of the university senates. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-24	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Imre Vejkey, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-25	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The corona virus epidemic has brought Europe and the world down not only in health but also economically. In this serious situation, Hungarian economic protection measures have been effective, because we have managed to preserve jobs. In order to maintain jobs, a credit moratorium has been introduced, wage subsidies have been paid to businesses in distress due to the epidemic, and half the wages in sectors in difficulty have been taken over, social contribution tax has been released and business tax has been reduced by half. With targeted wage support, 250,000 jobs out of HUF 80 billion were protected. As a result of economic protection measures, in December 2020 the same number of workers worked before the epidemic and the third lowest number of unemployed people in the EU. It can be concluded that the economic protection action plan from March 2020 to 31 December 2020 has been successfully implemented. [[10.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, We have successfully completed the economic protection phase, from 1 January 2021 we have entered the start-up phase of the economy. Based on the key to our previous successes, we believe that the economy can be restarted by job creation, tax reduction and investment support. An action plan will be put in place to restart the Hungarian economy, in seven steps: The first step is to reduce the housing VAT to 5 per cent, so that this 5% VAT can also be refunded for the purchase of new-built apartments, as well as the transfer fee should not be payable if the CSOK support is used. The second step is the renovation program. The renovation programme has already started, in which families with children or children will receive half of the amount spent on renovation, up to HUF 3 million as a non-refundable grant from the State, and from 1 February 2021 they will be able to benefit from a state-supported loan with a maximum interest rate of 3 per cent, with a maximum duration of ten years. The third step is wage support for businesses in distress. As of 1 February 2021, wage support will be granted in advance to companies that require public wage support instead of ex post financing. Step four: the medical raise program. On 1 January 2021, the largest medical wage increase programme in recent decades entered into force. Thanks to the comprehensive wage increase programme, doctors' wages will increase on average by two and a half times in two years. Step five: Restoration of the 13th month's pension. In 2021, the gradual retirement of the 13th month pension taken away by the Socialists began, with the government's commitment to maintain its purchasing value, as the government increases pensions year by year with inflation levels. Step six: Free of children under the age of 25. Step seven: guaranteeing an interest-free reboot loan up to HUF 10 million for the smallest businesses. Ladies and Gentlemen, The next step of the action plan will be a large-scale investment support programme, funded together with the EU, and the biggest winner of which will be Hungarian higher education. Our goal is to implement the country's largest university development plan with an investment of nearly HUF 1500 billion. Ladies and Gentlemen, If everything goes well, the Hungarian economic re-launch program will allow for 4-5 percent economic growth in Hungary this year. Go, Hungary! Go, Hungarians! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I give the floor on behalf of the government to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-02-16-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the last ten years, the Hungarian people, with the cooperation of Hungarian businesses, have indeed achieved extraordinary results, and they have previously achieved records that seem unattainable in the field of economic policy. Now, in retrospect, the last ten years have indeed been the most successful decade of the last hundred years. Allow me to support this with a few numbers. At the beginning of 2020, 850 thousand more people worked in Hungary than in the last quarter of 2010 before the government change. The employment rate has risen from 54 per cent to 70 per cent over this decade, from the end of left-wing governance to the end of the previous decade, but the unemployment rate has decreased from 12 per cent to 3.3 per cent. There was a low government deficit, a downward trend in public debt, an increase in incomes and poverty. Honourable Congressman, The appearance of the corona virus last year was indeed a threat to these results, which is why we needed the economic protection action plan you mentioned, which focused on preserving jobs, creating new jobs, strengthening priority sectors, supporting businesses and helping Hungarian families and pensioners. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to say about the economic protection action plan that 250 000 jobs have been protected by wage support, investment support has been achieved by more than 1400 companies and by creating another 280 000 jobs. This programme, the economic defense action plan, was a success, and the best proof of that is that in December, as many people worked as before the outbreak. Overall, it can be said that with the help of all measures, we have been able to support more than 1.5 million workers, and, as a result, domestic unemployment is one of the lowest in the European Union. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the economic re-launch action plan is what the government has just decided to do. Thank you for showing me the details of this, but allow me to draw attention to some important things. On the one hand, while we reduce the VAT on housing to 5 per cent in such a situation, in order to build tens of thousands of new homes in Hungary, the VAT was raised from 20 to 25 per cent during left-wing crisis management. So what we believe is that taxes should be reduced and left-wing crisis management was about tax increases. We give families a discount loan of HUF 6 million to renovate their apartments, of which HUF 3 million is non-refundable, i.e. we support families with preferential loans and non-refundable grants. What did the left one do? Contrary to his promises, he terminated the home creation program, as soon as he knew he had stopped this support and pushed the Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans. That's the difference again between crisis management. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we have introduced a new credit facility for small and medium-sized enterprises: for ten years we will grant them a 0 per cent loan, which is a great opportunity and great support for all those businesses that are in trouble now, and which, after the crisis, want to start their activities again, they want to strengthen their own operation. Indeed, we are providing wage support to businesses in distress, more than 100,000 people will be protected and protected by this sector's wage support, and contrary to any news, I can tell you that 98 percent and more than 98 percent of the subsidies requested have already been paid to entrepreneurs. On the other hand, what did the left do when there was a crisis? It did not provide wage support, but raised taxes and job losses. In addition, we use a credit moratorium to help businesses and families, and there will be a wage increase. You mentioned the medical raise. It is worth paralleling that the left hand did not raise wages, but the Gyurcsány governments took 600 billion forints out of health care, charged 16,000 active beds and dismissed 6,000 health workers. That's the difference between us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-28	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It was worth getting up again today, as we learned that our fellow Member Brenner Koloman is an intellectual, a left-wing intellectual, and his favourite is Clubradio. It was a long march, but the congressman finally arrived. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I'm sorry that Congresswoman Versus Anett left, because what she said, I hope she meant it, because it would have been pretty rude for a joke. You said that, following a successful left-wing crisis management, the Orbán government took over a prosperous, growing economy in 2010. I would also like to draw the Member's attention from a distance to the fact that, with a 7.2 percent deficit, an IMF loan and practically on the brink of bankruptcy, the country's governance was handed over, and it was due to the preparation or preparedness of the Fidesz-KDNP government to avoid the situation of Greece. [[10.10]] But I think we have enough experience to decide how the left and the right have done crisis management in the last ten years, because unfortunately, in the last ten to fifteen years, both have been the case. In 2008, and even now, thousands of billions of forints were spent on crisis management, both by left-wing governments at the time, and now by the Fidesz-KDNP government, the only difference is that despite spending several thousand billion forints between 2008 and 10, there were cuts, withdrawals, tax increases, all of this was accompanied by unemployment, and even the IMF loans were left behind. Today we have spent thousands of billions of forints, but there are no restrictions on the population, no tax increases, but we support families, businesses and through this we protect jobs, of course there are losses, and there are some things that cannot be expressed in money today. In English, successful crisis management does not depend on how much money we spend, but on what goals we effectively spend the resources that are available; and so far, the lack of understanding of the left has always been paid by citizens, the people. Even in a difficult situation after 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government's first priority was to support families. Our goal was to ensure that those who want to have children do not have to give up on this simply because of the lack of material means, but at least such an important goal is to strengthen the moral and social respect of families. That's why we introduced family tax relief, family home-building discount, village CSOK, baby shower support, four-year-old mother-free, family-friendly car purchase, which has already been used by more than 20,000 people. In other words, if you look at the numbers, you can see that during the Fidesz-KDNP administration, the support for families has increased by two and a half times. Contrary to the left, we are not dealing with the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, but we know that in this situation, too, people, especially families with children, need to be helped. The difference in thinking is well shown by the fact that while the government is working on home creation, local left-wing leadership is heading in a different direction in some settlements. For example, there is the 1st district of Budapest, where Márta V. Naszályi brings rent increases and housing uncertainty to those living there, and does so in the highest agreement with the local representative Antal Csárdi. During the current crisis, we have expanded support for families with one of the greatest home-building programmes of all time. As part of the economic re-launch action plan, families can save tens of millions of HUF with a home creation programme launched in January. But let's look at the details. From January 27 percent to 5 percent, the VAT on newly built flats of up to 150 sq m and houses of up to 300 sq m fell. Those who buy a new property with a family home-building discount, a CSOK, may also claim a 5% VAT and do not have to pay a levy. Those who build can live up to 5 million forints with VAT refund. Those refurbishing their homes can receive subsidies, half of the renovation costs, up to HUF 3 million will be paid back as a grant, and from February, those who cannot finance the cost of renovations can take up a state interest subsidy loan with a maximum of HUF 6 million. From January onwards, the total amount of CSOK is also available for attic construction. That's what we do in times of crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-30	Thank you very much, Mr László Böröcz. Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2021-02-16-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, ended an era in 2010, a difficult period, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era. At that time, Hungarian families, young people, children and pensioners were constantly taking away their lives, making their lives more difficult with constant restrictions. It is no coincidence that in 2010 Hungary had a family-friendly turnaround, the government's goal since 2010 has been to make it easier to take on children, raise children and make families with children at home. To this end, we have taken a lot of measures, and the framework for this speech does not allow me to list them all. Allow the Member to give some figures on the measures we have taken in relation to the family protection action plan, and how many people are affected now. For example, the baby shower support has been used by more than 113 thousand people so far, and the total amount used has been over HUF 1000 billion in recent years. As you mentioned, over 20,000 people in large families used car shopping support until Friday, which means nearly HUF 50 billion in support for families. But to give you another example: we introduced the four- or more-children's mother's absence from January 1, 2020; so far, the number of claimants is almost 50 thousand, and this means HUF 19,5 billion in support to these mothers. In addition, in 2015 we introduced the family home-building discount, the CSOK, which was used by 159 thousand families by the end of November 2020 for a total of HUF 505 billion; and perhaps the first of the measures you have named is the family tax relief, which today helps about one million families in their everyday lives compared to left-wing representatives always saying that it affects few people. Indeed, as you have said, from the beginning of this year we have launched the biggest home creation program of all time, which has many elements, the VAT reduction to 5 percent you mentioned, and the repayment of this 5% VAT to newly built real estate purchased with CSOK. Indeed, for families that build on their own land, the VAT on paid construction and land accounts is refunded to a maximum of HUF 5 million. If, as of 1 January 2021, a couple or family raising a child before having a child buys a new or used home using a CSOK, they shall be exempt entirely from the 8 per cent return on property acquisition levy. The most popular element of our home creation program is the home renovation program, as we are not only thinking of those who want to buy a newly built apartment or house, but we also thought of those who want to renovate their existing home, the state gives half the amount of renovation work, with a maximum of HUF 3 million. And indeed, as you have mentioned, from 1 February this year, those who do not have sufficient self-esteem can use a home renewal loan with a maximum ten-year term up to HUF 6 million and a 3-percent loan guaranteed by the State. And as of January 1, 2021, we also significantly reduced the fees of the notary procedures for applying for interest-supported housing loans from families raising children or having children by 55 to 65 percent, so that it can charge Hungarian families up to HUF 20 thousand. The introduction of home-building grants helps families to raise their children under the right conditions and, of course, help businesses to keep jobs and create new jobs, thus helping them to restart the economy. In the budget, Honourable Parliament, in 2021 there is about HUF 2300 billion available to support Hungarian families, if we add the estimated cost of the home creation action plan I mentioned, then HUF 2600 billion, and the government has increased the support of families by two and a half times since 2010 [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This is the highest in Europe, 4.5 percent of GDP. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. Hungarian families can still count on us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-32	Thank you very much, Mr Róbert Zsigo. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda, and we are now having general debates. In view of the pandemic situation, I would like to ask with respect that only the next speaker and the next two speakers be present in the Chamber, as far as possible. [[10.20]] Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for protection of the Crown Virus pandemic until closure. The government referral is T/14800. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to our decision yesterday, the motion will be discussed in an urgent hearing. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-02-16-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to draw the attention of honourable Members to the fact that, thanks to the protection under unchanged rules since 11 November 2020, the epidemic has been contained. At the same time, it is also necessary to see that the downward phase of the second wave has stopped, while several countries in Europe are facing the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic. In these circumstances, according to the epidemiological experts, it is appropriate to maintain the current measures. Although it is not yet time to relax the defence restrictions, let us hope that this moment is not so far away. The government will do everything in its power to ensure that more vaccinations against the coronal virus are available as quickly as possible. Today, in Hungary, we are in a position to inject three and a half million people more by the end of May because of Chinese and Russian vaccines than if we could only expect Brussels procurement, so that we can reach 70 percent grafted by July. With this, our country can be one of the best countries in the European Union, lifting restrictions can take place faster than other countries, and our aim is to be among the fastest in re-launching the economy. The government is therefore aware of its responsibility for the announcement of an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures 27/2021. By order of the government, an emergency has been declared throughout Hungary in order to prevent the consequences of the coronal virus pandemic causing a mass disease that threatens the safety of life and property, in order to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens. In addition, all Hungarian law-abiding citizens who have contributed to slowing down the spread of the epidemic should be thanked again. Special thanks to those working in health care, law enforcement, commerce and public and higher education, this could not have been possible without their sacrifice. Ladies and gentlemen, We have always stressed that national cooperation, joint action, compliance with measures and discipline are the most important reserves of Hungarian power. Now, in February 2021, we need to act again and take responsible decisions to protect the country. In response to the further spread of the coronal virus epidemic, several European countries have extended the scope of the special legal order and introduced further strict measures. Our country must also act, because our goal remains to save lives and jobs, and therefore we need a clear ability to decide and act in the fight against the epidemic. It is precisely about ensuring efficiency that the emergency is rehired. Our legal system is based on the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out in very detailed international comparison, with broad guarantees, what to do and what constitutional body is responsible for in exceptional situations. The extension of the emergency effect beyond 15 days therefore depends on the decision of the Parliament. On this basis, the purpose of this proposal is to confirm and extend all measures taken since then by declaring an emergency ordered by the Government to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens in order to counter the consequences of the pandemic of the Crown Virus, which threatens the safety of life and property, and to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens. Dear House, The proposal is made in accordance with Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law. In determining the actual and temporal framework for this, the proposal takes account of the fact that the government's measures and standards are naturally contained not in one, but in several government regulations. It therefore establishes the scope of the government decrees affected by the extension of scope, not by a rigid reference, but by means of the basic legislative provision establishing the legislative powers to introduce exceptional measures. It is essential that this mandate also applies to future government measures. The proposal provides for authorisation until expiry of the law, i.e. 90 days from the date of publication of the law, but the proposal makes it clear that the delegation may be revoked before the expiry of the 90-day period and, as appropriate, the Parliament may repeal it. On the basis of the substantive framework of the mandate, Parliament has the possibility to withdraw its mandate in respect of certain measures taken by the Government. The proposal states that the Parliament will confirm government regulations with extraordinary measures, which have been drawn up until the entry into force of the regulation, thus recognising the government's actions so far to control the epidemic. According to the proposal, the Parliament also confirms and expressly approves the Government's decision to act as an exceptional measure under Article 53 (2) of the Fundamental Law to declare an emergency. has re-introduced certain government regulations issued during the emergency period under the government decree with their text in force on 7 February 2021. The Government's action is therefore an act in the emergency situation in a special legal order period, which aims to ensure that the legal certainty required to ensure the predictability of the operation of certain legal institutions is properly ensured that legal entities continue to apply the measures they have been taking in recent months. Dear House, The Government's objective is to effectively protect against the coronal virus and to restart the economy, and has therefore put into effect, in order to ensure consistent application of the law, in accordance with the version in force on 7 February 2020, 478/2020 on the announcement of an emergency. government regulations in emergency situations under government regulations, while maintaining existing obligations unchanged. In the present circumstances, the Government considers it important to maintain a clear environment for the enforcement of the law that has been applied in recent months. It is important to point out that Article 3 of the proposal states that: §2 of the Act provides that the Government shall regularly inform the President of Parliament and the leaders of the parliamentary groups of the measures taken in order to prevent an emergency until the measures are maintained. Dear House, I must also mention the provisions of the bill concerning interim elections. Under the Fundamental Law, the representative body of the local government or the minority self-government may declare its dissolution. The proposed rule states that, in the event of the dissolution of the body of representatives, that decision shall be taken on the day following the end of the emergency. This also applies to cases where, under the disaster management law, the mayor, or the mayor or the chairman of the county assembly exercise the functions and powers of the representative body of the local government, the metropolitan and county assembly. In electoral and referendum procedures, the fundamental principle of directness should be applied to the personal participation of all voters. However, it is easy to see that this would seriously jeopardise the prevention and the eradication of the human epidemic. Given that neither electoral or referendum law contains emergency rules, it is necessary to provide for such procedural deadlines to be interrupted in the event of an emergency. [[10.30]] It is also necessary to provide that interim elections or referendums may not be held during an emergency. However, the date of the late election or referendum should be set within 15 days of the end of the emergency. The proposal provides that, after the end of the emergency, the elections for which candidates have already been permanently registered prior to the absence of the elections due to an emergency shall be decided no later than 45 days after the end of the emergency. Candidates in these elections shall only be those who have been permanently registered by the election committee prior to the absence of an election due to an emergency. In addition, the proposal states that if the deadline for the collection of signatures for the initiation of a local referendum has been suspended under the Act on the Protection of the Second Wave of the Coronary Virus pandemic, the deadline for the collection of signatures shall be 483-2020 on transitional provisions for interim elections during an emergency. It shall cease to enter into force until the day following the end of the emergency. On the day following the end of the emergency, the head of the local election office shall provide a new validation clause for the specimen of the signature collection sheet and hand it over to the organizer. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opponents, Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, This is a chance to demonstrate once again that national cooperation, joint action, is possible. There must be common issues that are above political interests and debates. There must be cases in which the nation and its representatives are united. Protection against the epidemic, such as protecting the lives and jobs of Hungarian people, is such a matter. I therefore ask with respect that you support the bill, as many of you did last time. Thank you for your attention, and I ask this House to support the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-34	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Vice-President Csaba Hende, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-02-16-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I personally believe that in these times of trial it is essential to ensure the widest possible national cooperation and social solidarity, since it has now become clear that the joint task of all of us is to prevent, slow down the spread of the coronal virus and to support the fight against infection, to protect human health and to restart the Hungarian economy. Responsible decisions must be taken by the Parliament and the government in times of crisis. These unusual restrictions require great patience from all citizens, but with sufficient discipline and cooperation, the power of joint action will lead us to success. Ladies and gentlemen, The epidemic, as you can see, and as Mr Secretary of State has said, is taking off in Hungary, all of this justifies the need and the possibility for rapid and effective measures to limit the spread of the virus in the future. I welcome the fact that the government is turning to Parliament again because it has declared an extraordinary legal order and has asked the Hungarian Parliament to extend it. We can all see that in the event of an emergency, the government must be ready to take decisions and put them into effect within hours because of the measures taken by health measures or the economic re-launch action plan. The number of coronal viral diseases needs to be reduced, while the economy needs to be restarted, which requires rapid and effective measures, and therefore the creation of emergency legal order and rapid government action opportunities should be supported. The reason we managed the first and second waves was because the country joined forces. Of course, we needed excellent professionals, and we needed the discipline of our citizens. Now the country is in such a better position that we are better prepared for both infrastructure and experience, and there is already a vaccine if all is true, then the first major shipment will soon arrive from China, and if everyone adheres to the rules, then together we will be able to stop the spread of the pandemic in Hungary and restart the economy. Dear House, The proposal before us is 2. Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law provides for the authorisation under Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law, the legislator having regard to the fact that, since the Government's measures are contained in several government decrees, it lays down the scope of the government decrees affected by the extension of the scope, not on a rigid basis, but on the basis of the basic legislative provision establishing the legislative powers to introduce exceptional measures. The proposal submitted ensures the duration of the authorisation until the expiry of the law, i.e. 90 days after its publication, but in accordance with Article 2 (2). Paragraph 2 of Section 2 clarifies that this decision of the Parliament may be revoked. It should be noted that Parliament has the possibility to revoke the mandate from the 16th day following the publication of certain government decrees containing measures. By adopting the Act, the Parliament also confirms the Government's decision to act as an extraordinary measure in 478-2020. has re-introduced certain government regulations issued during the emergency period under the government decree with their text in force on 7 February 2021. This is an important decision, as it will ensure legal certainty, which is one of the cornerstones of the rule of law, so that legal entities can continue to adapt predictablely to the circumstances that have become common in recent months. If you can get used to these circumstances at all. Dear Parliament, The bill submitted is necessary, but it is consolidated, it does not exceed what can be expected, but it gives the government the opportunity to intervene continuously, quickly and effectively. Our common goal is to put the plague behind us as soon as possible. We hope that our chances will be good soon thanks to the vaccines we have in sufficient quantity, and it is very important that we continue to maintain discipline. We should thank the heroes of health care, doctors, nurses and all staff, ambulances and general practitioners and their colleagues, who are increasingly burdened with the progress of the vaccination campaign as planned. Thank you to those working in social care and social institutions, teachers, police officers, public administration and trade workers for their exemplary position. Thank you to all those who bravely and faithfully exercise their vocation in behalf of the people during the plague. We thank all citizens for their discipline and patience to endure the bitter limitations of the last few months. We ask for more endurance and a little more patience from everyone. Another great joint effort is needed to finally defeat the coronal virus with the sufficient number of vaccinations and to leave the sad, even tragic, period of the plague behind us. I take this opportunity to express my deepest condolences to the victims of the plague. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group supports the proposal submitted. I would ask all my fellow Members, regardless of party standing, to also support their vote, and now, exceptionally, to put aside their political power considerations in the fight against the epidemic. This may seem naive to me, but as they say, hope lasts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Hende. I now give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[10.40]]
u2021-02-16-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I will not reveal a secret to you: Jobbik has stated and we continue to believe that we will vote against this bill. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] Our reasons have already been known. Even though Lőrinc Nacsa says it's a shame what's in your proposal, and the way you handled the crisis, it's a shame. Of course, history will judge them, but we can do one thing at this age, that you defend your arguments, and we are trying to defend the common, normal arguments that, unlike your excesses, show that you could have handled the crisis more successfully and better. The bill that you have just brought here, although it is because the regulations must be adopted, since it is a legal obligation for Parliament in this case to maintain its validity, but in fact a political declaration, a political pamphlet. That's also in it, by the way, quite clearly in point 2. Paragraph 3 of the Act, where you ask for the political seal rather than the authority, you ask Parliament to recognise politically the government's actions so far to prevent the epidemic. Well, ladies and gentlemen, your actions cannot be recognised politically or otherwise, and I will soon explain why. The importance of this bill to you is also shown by the fact that it is Pál Völner who is saying an expo, as opposed to Judit Varga's expoze and his speech as a general speaker. It doesn't seem to be important to the Ministry either, but it's basically a standard method, an automatism, that you're asking for authorization. We do not know that Judit Varga does not want to come because of his activities, or otherwise, because he has done a lot of public acts in a non-positive way lately, but we certainly should take it more seriously for the government to ask for such an important mandate. This also shows that we are essentially facing a political self-discovery bill. But let's look at the results that you are proud to have. One thing is certain, and perhaps it is possible to believe in statistics that show the number of deaths - the number of deaths shows that if we rewind the wheel of time, it can be seen that in Hungary, when the situation was settled in the summer and it was time to prepare, you failed to prepare for it. When the epidemic got there, that it was past the outbreak in the autumn, and we got to the point that Viktor Orbán allowed the virus to dictate the pace, it was clear that Hungary could not keep pace, and that restrictions had to be introduced which, to date, many are not only suffering, because this is not a suffering of restrictions, but also an event that has a major impact on their lives, which is needed to protect society and the community. But if you look at the disease control, you shouldn't hide it either, and you know it, because every day there's data about it that there's more than 14,000 deaths now, which are caused by the virus, the epidemic, and the mortality surplus, which the Ministry couldn't account for yesterday, is between 3300 and 3500. We don't know that people who didn't die from a coronal virus, but they're involved in the death surplus for what reason they lost their lives. It is also important to clarify this, since a crisis, the management of an epidemic, must also take into account the way in which it organises not only defence but also the areas behind protection, health and social care, police care. The government has raised very serious shortcomings in these issues, and we still do not see that despite your requests for authorisation, how the vast surplus left over in the absence of diagnostics will be tried to overcome them, otherwise they will need to be grouped and transferred with very serious resources and money. We still haven't heard a plan, we've heard loans about what loans people can borrow, they've suggested to everyone that they owe, and then pay back three years from now or after the credit moratorium expires. But who guarantees that, given your economic performance and your very limited distribution and very limited support, who guarantees that there will be work for the masses of people, when we see that there is a problem in Europe because of the link between the economies and their close chain. Let us not believe that Hungary will not suffer because of the winter tourism industry in Austria or Italy, and let us not believe that what is happening in France, Spain or Germany is because of the epidemic, we will not suffer, but you still have no foresight to think about helping these people. It should also be clarified, although it is clear in the statistics of the KSH that you have requested authorisation during one of the most deadly periods of the past period, because unfortunately, the most deaths in Hungary have been in 21 years. But let's also see how you've been stewarded by the previous authority. When we talked about the matter of publicity and transparency, everyone clearly saw that the government had to deal with the crisis as carefully as possible, ensuring the widest possible transparency, precisely because it could gain people's trust. By keeping secrets, by keeping most of the data silent, or by having among opposition representatives a fellow Member who has been sent a meaningless message or self-detection message, saying that they do not want to respond to some of your requests for information, well, you have reduced confidence in one of the defence tools, the vaccine, and that thanks to your lack of confidence in the government, people have a very low confidence in the vaccine. This, for example, is a measure of government crisis management, your confidence measure. But we can also safely say that tens of thousands of people have become unemployed, even though they come with the same number of people working in Hungary. Real life constantly defies that. Last week, on Friday, we listened to those hosts of Budapest, who collected their voice and who told us how many people left the sector, and they clearly see that most, at least 60 percent of the workers will not be able to return and will not be able to further employ them. What did you do compared to that? They gave their very narrowly favored fellows money that they could survive the crisis with which they could survive the epidemic, but many tens of thousands could not. It is clear that while Viktor Orbán allowed the virus to dictate the pace, elsewhere the tempo was raised, and in essence everyone was crowded with the funds allocated to you, their own friends. In fact, we have come to the point that, not using the authority, but under this cover, under the authority of what you have done with ulterior intent, you have carried through an entire country and parliament during the battle, constantly through legislative proposals that put certain sectors under pressure for decades. Public trust funds were set up just to lose the public money that they had sent to the foundations. It was a statutory theft device. [[Nacsa Lawrence opens his hands and says no.]] Mr. Congressman, I have told you that these laws have been passed under the cover of the mandate when people have been watching for protection, and here in Parliament, with their various legislative proposals submitted, you have done these mischief in the country. The electoral law has also been successfully amended, precisely so that no more lists can be drawn up, but that there should be as few lists as possible. No use spreading your hands, Nacha Lawrence. I wonder what it would be like for KDNP to run for office on its own. Get out of here. Put 70 candidates in there. You know what, Congressman? Not only would you not have 70 candidates, but it would also be very difficult for you to get 17, they still borrow their own representatives from Fidesz. And your voters will show you how many there are. We're looking forward to it. If you now accept the challenge, we look forward to KDNP setting up independent candidates everywhere to have its own list, and we will see how Imre Vejkey will succeed in the Zala 2nd constituency, for example, or, let's say, Lőrinc Nacsa will succeed in the 4th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar when he leaves. [[Dr. Pál Völner: And where have you won?]] I'll tell you how much your support is there, and I don't need a poll. You guys wouldn't get as much as a couple of jokes or a couple of fakes. So it's safe to joke about these, fellow Members. [[Dr. Pál Völner: For Jobbik will succeed!]] But on the other hand, you've used this period to be insidious. They did privatization of universities, and they even had the picture that when we knew that there would be a great need for serious funds in the country to save people in the crisis, you actually spent 11.3% of the funds created for crisis management to help businesses in distress. He made money for a hunting exhibition, also to help Zsolt KDNP-semjén with immense support; the Tihanyi Foundation was able to put 36 billion in cash on its financials; space activities, as one of the most important things for us is that space research and space activities work in Hungary during the crisis and the epidemic, and they also contributed 2 1/2 billion; government communication, consultation, 8.9 billion; sports facilities. And now Viktor Orbán is coming here asking for the authority to do such and similar things. [[10.50]] If you were given the authority, what law would you touch, which law would I want to recreate, while the people are busy with the epidemic, that you are beating through Parliament what is, by the way, nonsense, and which would make the press, and even the European press, full of it? After all, you are also always dealt with in Europe, because the hybrid regime that Viktor Orbán is building is now visible everywhere, and everyone can see by what despicable means he is trying to influence public opinion on the one hand and political life on the other, and he is poisoning Hungarian democracy. But let's see what Viktor Orbán is asking for. He's asking permission to keep people locked up while his buddies fly to Dubai. It was not so long ago that the plane that all of NER's buddies had traveled to Dubai had already traveled to the West or to the Adriatic. Right now, they're going to Dubai, while people are locked up, they can't see their families, they can't hug their loved ones. Others may hug and enjoy life in the Maldives in Dubai or otherwise, but Viktor Orbán asks for the authority to keep the people locked up. Orbán asks for the authorisation to continue to stay home after eight o'clock in the evening, and there is nowhere to go. It calls for the authority not to give substance to people in health care who have been waiting for months for something to happen to them, because they simply do not receive adequate care in healthcare linked to the epidemic mode. But he asks people to be authorised, or he asks the parties to keep the catering places closed, because we have seen that tourism and catering have been particularly good for him. Oh, no, fellow Members. That's what they did, that's what they want to prolong. They are asking for authorization, as they did with the ventilators, and now they are certainly doing with the vaccines, so that they can do business, raid, and if something falls off the truck in China, you can bring it to Hungary. But they also ask permission to siphon local governments for another 90 days and take away the money that local governments want to spend on crèches, social institutions and road renovations. And if we've already talked about which KDNP representative should start in which district, then you should really go to the proposed Hajdú 4th district, quietly, and see what the roads look like in the countryside; we need money for that. Instead, you have wasted money on the things mentioned above, and instead of dealing with people's real interests or helping local governments to improve their way, you will again be thinking about business. In fact, Viktor Orbán asks for permission to distinguish between vaccinated and non-vaccine, so that those who have vaccination can be preferred and those who do not have vaccination will be disadvantaged. In fact, Viktor Orbán asks for authorisation, as we saw in the spring, to continue to fine people. The total amount of money collected during the spring period was HUF 1.1 billion. You took that away from people, saying you wanted to keep order, and then those fines were really friendly. Recently, with their latest amendments, they imposed fines and threatened the Hungarian people with fines that they were slowly thinning their mates, and they even had the nerve to raise this when people went out and spoke and tried to tell you because they were late in supporting people living in tourism restaurants. Then what have you done, beyond the fact that you have found out that no one has been paid since November: in the following decree, fines have been placed in which the person who deals with this is going to be disabled, and who is trying to send you a message as his last cry for help. It is also quite clear, and it is apparent from Parliament's autumn operation that you believe that there is no obstacle to the government's regulation and that Parliament will approve it. Parliament has met abundantly in recent times. Parliament would also have the opportunity to approve the 70 regulations at your rate of approval and to retain what is necessary and to reject what is not, for example, necessary. There is a great deal of regulation to be put in place, its scope must be maintained, but there are some things over which the time has passed, and with which we should do something, and here in Parliament, before the widest possible plenum, I think that in a democratic rule of law we could perhaps decide with the greatest authority for people. There are few democratic institutions, especially in such a situation where as many people can speak to it as possible, and things are not decided at a government meeting or, by the way, at Viktor Orbán's own head and at his own discretion. We also learned this: in Hungary, the experts can say anything, in Hungary, Pál Völner can say anything, or whatever Miklós Kásler, Gergely Gulyás, who is not here, said that the Prime Minister's word matters. In Hungarian: the Prime Minister decides everything in one person; the Prime Minister is a Homeland Security Advisor, a Virologist in one person. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Ladies and gentlemen, There was a dog sale in Buda once. You can prepare for non-voting. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-38	Thank you very much, Congressman László György Lukács. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party indicated that, within the 15-minute time frame available to them, two speakers presented the group's position. I'm asking who I can give the floor to first. [[For signal:]] Congressman Imre Vejkey!
u2021-02-16-39	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László György Lukács' speech by the lead speaker and his speech before the Jobbik agenda cannot be left without a word. It is a cause for concern that even during the pandemic period, the left-wing and the Jobbik are not on the side of the people, but they are protecting the Klubrádió; the Klubrádió, because the left-wing radio did not win an application. By the way, it's amazing that you think democracy exists only if left-wing organisations win applications. Remember, democracy is not based on your wishes or not, but on legality, and we, the Fidesz-KDNP, represent this legitimacy against you, which is why we are fighting our freedom fight. Ladies and Gentlemen, For nearly a year now, we have been living in a new era in our country and in the world, since the pandemic period has transformed all of our lives. Today, we are in the third wave in the fight against the pandemic, and the virus is raging with renewed force throughout Europe. Today, preserving lives is our priority, but also maintaining the country's viability. With all the decisions of the Fidesz-KDNP, these two goals are being pursued, while left-wing politicians are constantly trying to prevent our health and economic defence against the virus, making more absurd statements. Ladies and Gentlemen, As epidemic data are increasing throughout Europe, the Hungarian government is now 27/2021. With effect from 8 February 2021, it has declared an emergency for the third time in the fight against the coronal virus epidemic. [[Lőrinc Nacsa, the outgoing Dr. László György Lu-kács. Dr. László György Lukács: I have work to do! The president's ringing the bell.]] By declaring an emergency, the government's objective was to maintain the protection provisions already issued. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. Dr. László György Lukács: If you insist so much! The president's ringing the bell.]] , as they establish measures that are essential for the control of the coronal virus epidemic. In view of this, the Government provided in the Regulation that 478/2020. the 70 government decrees issued during the emergency period under the government decree shall enter into force again on 8 February 2021 with the text in force on 7 February 2021. In view of the fact that the scope of the Government Decrees is limited to 15 days under the Fundamental Law and that only the Parliament can authorize the extension of the scope of the emergency beyond 15 days, it is therefore necessary to negotiate and adopt this bill. This bill is essentially the same as the previous bill on the protection of the corona virus pandemic, but the left does not support it; yesterday, he did not vote either for a derogation from the house rule or for an urgent trial of this bill. This means that the left has voted against the protection measures for the perceived political benefits. [[11.00]] It is fortunate that in the parliamentary elections in 2018, the Hungarian people gave us a two-thirds mandate again, so we were able to vote on the urgent procedure with the two-thirds majority yesterday, and as a result we can negotiate it here in front of Parliament today, and we hope that we can vote on it next week. Just as they did not vote for a derogation from house rules yesterday, just as they did not vote for the emergency procedure, as we have heard the right speech, that they will not vote in favour of the bill itself, it is likely that all left-wing parties will join this, but we do not mind and encourage Hungarian people not to be afraid, because we will be there for them, and Fidesz-KDNP will vote for this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik.
u2021-02-16-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Trivial but it seems to be worth pointing out trivial things for the left, everyone around the world knows that effective defense requires extraordinary authority. This is not a Hungarian unical measure, but this is how all countries operate: if they face such a global epidemic or face such an extraordinary situation, otherwise governments in all countries of the world, under parliamentary supervision in their democratic countries, will be given extraordinary authority. It is important that this is the case in Hungary, and the Parliament can grant the mandate, which is exactly what the government has asked for in this bill. I believe that the results so far confirm that the government does not abuse this extraordinary mandate and is living well, doing everything it can to reduce the health and economic consequences of the epidemic. It is worth going to the left to see what these results are. Let's look at the health defense. With regard to health protection, we can safely say that, not we say it, but others say that Hungary has successfully completed the first phase of protection against the epidemic. In the second wave, we saw that we were able to keep the spread of the virus in line, and that all Hungarians who needed health care received the necessary health care, did not happen during the second wave in Hungary, which, unfortunately, occurred in many Western European countries, in countries that were richer than we, thought were stronger than we, that they could not provide health care, because the capacities of health care were simply filled. That's never happened in our country. The Hungarian government has decided, and it seems more and more that this was the right decision that the Hungarian restrictive measures should not be pulled, let go! It is followed by its policy, but by the restrictive measures taken by the Government in November. There were governments from Portugal to Austria, which took a different path, which tried to loosen up a little bit, and when the epidemic data went differently, they tightened up. But it seems to us that whoever chose this policy chose this form of defence, it is lost; it is enough to look at the unfortunate Portuguese events. Thanks to effective defence, Hungary has avoided the third wave. There is no third wave in Hungary, even if we see it [[Gergely Arató: That's not what the Prime Minister said yesterday! Is that okay?]] that the data show that there is stagnation, so thank God, the leap that was in most countries in Western Europe was not in Hungary. But look at the data, and it's not the KSH, it's Eurostat. Here I would like to show two figures to my fellow Members on the left. [[He's showing it to me.]] One of them [[Gergely Harvesto: Forbidden illustration, Mr President. House committee!]] the issue of extra mortality, in which we can see that Hungary is better than the European average. But more importantly, and by the way, I think that you can close the unworthy debates on these things, and that is a figure showing the difference between the additional mortality data and the number of people who died in the coronal virus. Just to make it clear to everyone that if the difference is minimal or non-existent, zero percent means that the government in question is transparently counting anyone who died of a coronal virus or had a coronal virus at the time of death. What does this statistic look like now? Hungary is 3 percent, Croatia is 1 percent, and the other countries are all minus, which means that they did not fully register those who died in the coronal virus, unlike us. And how are the great countries? Germany minus 14 percent, Austria minus 26 percent, Spain minus 40 percent. That's the difference between the two data. But to look at a neighbor, because we know that Slovaks have a completely different calculation of the number of people who died in the coronal virus: in Slovakia, this figure is minus 65%, my fellow Members. There are two things that we can draw from this. On the one hand, the Hungarian authorities acted transparently in the Hungarian defence and counted everyone in the death statistics. The second can be summarized by the fact that it is very easy to catch up with a liar even faster than a lame dog, so this data shows that those who have tried to do their best with numbers have been caught very quickly. So much for health protection, which is why the government is given extraordinary authority. But there is also a series of economic measures, because, in an extraordinary legal order, the government has taken very important measures. For example, there is the credit moratorium, which is one of Europe's largest credit moratoriums in its scope and length. But there is, for example, the retirement of the 13th month pension, the reduction of administrative burdens, the remission or reduction of social contribution tax, the suspension of tourism tax, sectoral wage support. For this, the government all needed the extraordinary authority. And what's the result? The result is that today there are about the same number of people working in Hungary as they worked a year ago, and what is perhaps even more important is that we can see fresh statistics just today, in the fourth quarter the Hungarian economy exceeded the previous quarter by 1.1 percent, which is an unexpected development for analysts as well. This means that last year the Hungarian economy decreased by 4.3 percent, unadjusted 3.7 percent, which is much better than what the analysts expected, and this means that the scale of the economic downturn is one of the smallest in the European Union, compared to many large countries, where we can see GDP downturns above 10 percent. So this also supports the fact that Hungarian economic defence was also successful. I think that the two facts that health protection has been successful and that we have managed to contain the virus, and that all the people in need have been able to provide health care, and that the economy can remain, and that the jobs have also remained, and that Hungary has done well in this, is enough evidence and reason and reason, even for our left-wing colleagues, to provide the government with the extraordinary mandate. But unfortunately, on the left, the facts don't matter. You're even making a policy out of an epidemiology defense. Unfortunately, our better-looking fellow Member, who is so democrat that he does not listen to the answers, has just come up with the electoral law or the request for a change of model at the university. Ladies and gentlemen, You know perfectly well that it has nothing to do with the government's extraordinary mandate, we have been discussing it here, in Parliament, and we have voted on it here. You know that very well, but you're using it as an excuse to refuse extraordinary authority. [[11.10]] This is also where our fellow Member Luke spoke about what the government and the Prime Minister asked the people to do. This may be the case for you, but the Prime Minister is asking for an opinion, people are about to be consulted online, and he is asking the experts for an opinion so that he can make informed decisions. On the other hand, you are constantly annoying me, and unfortunately you are constantly distrusting the vaccine against certain types of vaccines to this day, and all of this is because you think that the worse the government is, the better for you. I'm asking you to dismiss politics now and vote in favour of this mandate for the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-16-42	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2021-02-16-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a loudspeaker error.]]
u2021-02-16-44	Excuse me, let's get him back, and I'd like the voice from the pulpit, please.
u2021-02-16-45	Thank you very much. Maybe now, you can hear it. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, we all hoped that the Spring Session of 2021 would no longer be necessary for Parliament to deal with another draft mandate bill. We all hoped that by this time life would return to normal, and that Hungarian families would be able to live again as before, but not in this way. And that it didn't work out that way, that government has its own responsibility. A year ago, we faced a long-awaited challenge when the coronal virus epidemic occurred in Hungary. There was a need for unity and cooperation, but the Prime Minister decided to choose an unlimited regime of regulations. However, after the first wave, the economy, catering, tourism and tens of thousands of Hungarians who lost their jobs had to experience unprecedented shock by the summer of 2020. In the fall, they continued to look at popularity indicators. Even though the Hungarian families, the Hungarian economy, have made a huge sacrifice, you have not spent valuable time preparing for health care, you have not strengthened the lines of protection; the epidemic has been released without exaggerating in Hungary in the autumn of 2020, but you have done nothing about it in the crucial weeks. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The country has to work, and I quote literally, that was their excuse for not taking action to protect people. Hospitals were placed under unprecedented stress within moments, GPs were unable to record new cases of infection, contact research was also, let's say, an effective collapse. People had a right to be abandoned by the government. It was already November, before they knew it, and the Parliament began to negotiate the ratification of the restrictive measures that had been re-introduced. Your opposition was a partner in this, despite the fact that you chose political gain instead of spring unity. Because of the severity of the epidemic, the government has been given a unified mandate, highlighting that the responsibility is also theirs. This responsibility, as the Prime Minister confirmed in the House yesterday, was allegedly assumed. That is why it is worth taking account of the issue of responsibility now, even after the three months, and of the exact use of this mandate. As far as responsibility is concerned, honourable Members, Viktor Orbán here, within the walls of Parliament, in September and in a radio interview, said literally that all responsibility in relation to the protection of the disease is for the government and personally for the Prime Minister. After receiving the full parliamentary mandate, he asked himself here in December, perhaps on one of the last sittings, to answer the question of our fellow Member, Zita Gurmai, and said that the government had no responsibility for the disease control. There was a time when he agreed to take this responsibility, and there was such a large and large nation leader, a leading politician, that he put this responsibility on the operational tribe, even though we know that even in the decree declaring an emergency, Viktor Orbán took special care to write it literally: the Prime Minister is responsible, and the Prime Minister decides on all matters, everyone else can make a maximum proposal for him. It is worth looking at what has been done in recent years, and it is also worth looking at what is actually in this proposal, because I think this clearly shows why even the opposition is in a different position to this proposal than the legislative proposal submitted in November. In this proposal, they expect political recognition from the Hungarian Parliament for their government measures over the last three months. In addition, the measures that had nothing to do with the management of the virus epidemic will be repeated and listed by name. As part of their petty political games, these government decrees were made, so low and I speak not only of framing local governments, but also of sinking into an epidemiology defense to the destruction of half a year of students from the University of Theatre and Film Arts by this regulation, which is otherwise included in the bill, just because these young people did not let them or their university be plowed by the government after 100, perhaps 150 years. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] As far as municipalities are concerned, it is perfectly clear that once again, they are simply playing a petty, low-level party political game using or abusing the fight against the virus epidemic. And how deceitful what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking an example here, because we have often said what measures are being imposed on local governments thanks to the government, but it is not nothing that you ban local governments from raising any fees or revenues, while the Hungarian Government raises the tolls and other charges and postal services that form part of the Hungarian government's revenue by a week. Well, that makes it clearer that they're lying and political. How is it that the government is entitled to a higher toll by increasing inflation, how is it that a municipality is forbidden to do so? ! It is quite amazing, impertinent and deceitful, and this rule is, of course, part of this bill, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. And they don't even think that this is a problem not only for Budapest and cities with county rights. Think about those small settlements, which are supposed to be so important to you in the situation of the Hungarian countryside, where, for example, there is no other revenue than, say, the weight tax, because there is no business tax in that village, or perhaps an income on the basis of one or two such awards! They have nowhere to go, they simply look out of their heads, and they don't know what's going to happen to them, and don't tell me, especially if there's an individual congressman in this room that hasn't told you small town mayor that their condition is untenable. And then here's what they've done: restrictions. Yes, they made a decision in November, which they have not been willing to review for any professional or other reason since then, but at least how should I put it? they are in line with what the mandate was to take certain more radical measures to control the outbreak of the virus. Another issue is that after three months, it might have been worth reviewing them in some way. My fellow Members often come with a health wage increase, and how well they handled it. Let's just face it, that had nothing to do with this authorisation bill. We have accepted this here in Parliament, and I would add, along with the votes of opposition representatives. So they did not need such an extraordinary mandate, nor is it included in this bill. In three months, they have failed to pay Europe's cheapest, minimum wage support at least for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises who are officially forbidden to operate, so if they want to, they can do nothing but destroy themselves quietly. You, the Prime Minister here in November, promised that you would receive all the money by December, and last week Gergely Gulyás had to admit to the government info that you took action quickly, and in a week you paid for what you failed to do in three months. What they don't understand is that during these three months, crowds of people have been on the streets, and crowds of companies have been destroyed while you've been sitting on your laurels, and obviously you've been working on how to transfer state, hundred billion-dollar fortunes to private foundations, because apparently you've had time to do that. [[11.20]] When you look at the health part, that circus, that untraceable game you've been doing about the vaccination plan since December, it's kind of amazing. So the vaccination plan, which every normal country and previously Hungary were able to publicly present in a single document, with whom, what will happen in this situation, they have not been able to do or at least publish to this day, and the order that you have accepted, and such a half-sided document like that, is bleeding from a thousand wounds. He's bleeding from a thousand wounds because, for example, it doesn't show that you're serious about educators, retail workers, public transport workers, who are busy meeting people every day, that's their job, they don't go any further. I can't believe you guys are serious about this, but in this order of vaccination, there's no mention of teachers, I say once again, working in public transportation, retail in some way, otherwise they couldn't be in line with the police or the soldiers, and we shouldn't have seen them for a long time. A vaccination plan would, of course, also be useful if there were some kind of intact document, so that people can see roughly predictable what will happen to them, even if the answer is that you will not have it for two months. Well, that's not good, but what we see is that there's nothing written down, if the Prime Minister is thinking of one thing, and he thinks that, for example, top athletes or football players have to get shots first, then that's done with a handshake, because they're not in the document either, I'll add. Now it's interesting to see how legally binding this is. Let's look at the economy. Today, the figure came out, minus 5.1 percent of the annual GDP decline, which is the third worst figure in the period since the change of regime. But they know exactly, and that's why they're delayed in the fall, that in the second quarter, the fall was about minus 13 percent, and the government itself was terrified. 5500 billion in government debt, 82 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday Viktor Orbán here said that, well, that is relatively good, well, does Viktor Orbán tell the others much worse? Is the Viktor Orbán who visited national death in 2010 at the same size, 82 or 83 percent of public debt? The Fidesz, whose group leader, Lajos Kósa, may have been thrilled to say otherwise, yelled here at Kossuth Square that we were about to end up in Greece, and he hit the forint, destroying even more the hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials in this country? Does that Fidesz say that 83 percent is okay? ! My fellow Members are quite incredibly cynical on this issue, and let me not say this even more steeply: that they are buying respirators for 300 billion forints, and in the last three months we have not received an answer as to where they are, what about them, have they managed to reduce at least the damage caused to public finances, to sell or use any of this? Can these devices even be used for anything? ! Ladies and gentlemen, We have tabled amendments, because we think that if the goal really was the same as in the fall, they would have made the same proposal as in the fall. That was no more than an A/4 page. If you were to take the measures that I've just mentioned out of him, you might even consider voting for that. But you don't think we're gonna put our vote on a list of your low-level political games? It's completely nonsense. My fellow Member Vejkey, I wrote here, and he said that the same proposal was made in November. Well, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not. As far as vaccines are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it is your responsibility to communicate in this regard and to carry out specific activities. There is a complete national consensus, and I think that there is no party in this Parliament who does not say that vaccinations are important, that people must be vaccinated. [[To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] No! That's what my fellow Member says. And we also say that in order to protect people, we are sure that there is no risk in the health aspect of this. We see the guarantee of this in the use of vaccines under the approval of the European Union, or at least as MSZPs we say, and we also ask everyone to consult their home doctor before they are vaccinated, and to submit what their home doctor proposes to you here in Hungary. But the fact that you're here with Chinese and Russian and now you're talking about Indian vaccines in the Prime Minister's radio interview on Friday is that you have neither the background nor the basis, and then you're surprised that you're putting people into uncertainty, and people are doubting their lives, their physical safety, their health! This isn't a political rally where you have to say big things. You are exactly the ones who are putting it at risk, even if it turns out later that these vaccines are otherwise in order, they do not yet have such paper in Europe. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it has been mentioned that the credit moratorium is a good thing, and we have also supported it. But you do realize that the vast majority of Hungarians have no idea what this institution is; that, like the foreign exchange credit crisis, the masses of families will be indebted without knowing that this is happening because they are not informed; that they do not know that the amount not paid back to their credit cards will otherwise be ticking by almost 40 percent as long as the moratorium lasts. How many of these citizens will turn to you in the next few weeks, months, you'll see. This is where the government should have a decent communication with people before there's another huge debt. However, the oligarchs were able to feed, carrying hundreds of billions into private foundations. This, my fellow Members, is not a crisis management, but a deepening of the crisis, and the political force responsible for this does not have to give. Thank you for listening.
u2021-02-16-46	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-47	Dear House, The Democratic Coalition will not support this proposal, and we cannot support it for three reasons. Firstly, because harmful, faulty, ineffective measures are subsequently requested to contribute. Secondly, because you have completely lost touch with reality and have proved in recent months that you are unfit to deal with the epidemiological situation and the economic crisis. Thirdly, because you have also demonstrated in recent months that you are not interested in the interests of the country, not in the interests of Hungarian citizens, but in their own petty political aspects, and we will not be partners in this. What am I talking about? First of all, what measures they are now asking Parliament to contribute to, what they would like us, as well as the opposition, to put the seal on it for what measures. For example, hospitals should be run by hospital commanders and not by competent health professionals as military hospital commanders. To allow the vaccine to take place, not according to the rules of the Health Act, but on the basis of the Secretary of State's expert opinion on immeasurable competence. To change the status of health workers in a way that puts them at a significant disadvantage, just during an epidemic. To have free parking in cities, causing significant damage to people who can't stop in front of their own houses. To punish local governments, take away their incomes, destroy them, and bankrupt them. So that they can continue to build up public debt without restrictions and do not have to account for spending nearly a year, essentially without a budget, with occasional ideas, throwing the country's money into sports investments, investments for Hungarians across borders, churches, or filling the pockets of groups of entrepreneurs that you like, let's say, the renovation of Lőrinc Mészáros' hotels, while the workers are being dismissed there. Or even the right rules and conditions for the World Hunting Exhibition. So you're asking us to give you permission to do what you've done in recent months, hiding behind the epidemic, but with completely different intentions. They ask for authorisation to continue to spend the country's money without control or restriction, to ask for permission to destroy the municipalities, to ask for permission to do anything without otherwise giving proper information. [[11.30]] Secondly, why can't we support this bill? Because you're asking for a blank cheque with this bill so you can do anything in the coming months, even though you can't face reality. We have heard a number of elements of this here in Parliament. You say how successful crisis management was in the second wave. That's what you say. Then, dear fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, since September, 1350 out of a million people in Hungary have lost their lives because of a coronal virus. This average in Europe was 700, so a Hungarian citizen had twice as much chance of losing his life in the second wave as in Europe. Do you understand what I'm saying? That's twice the chance. During the second wave, you lost control of the epidemic, and therefore Hungarian people died. You are asking us to continue this. You guys are talking about vaccines. You can see from the data, there is a loss of confidence in vaccinations in Hungary. And not because the opposition draws attention to the fact that only a safe vaccine is given, but because you are forcing vaccines that do not have reliable control. In essence, the Prime Minister instructed the Hungarian pharmaceutical authorities, which had already been party-controlled to allow the Russian vaccine, by the way, that the experts' unanimous opinion was that there were insufficient documentation that these vaccines were reliable, and then even this formal check was removed when the Chinese vaccine was approved without any substantive tests and checks. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're lying!]] If these are so safe and so good vaccines, I would like to ask why none of them have yet been submitted to the European Medicines Agency. In the case of the Russian vaccine, there is such an intention, but as we have learned, no official request has yet been received, and there is no such intention in the case of the Chinese vaccine. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yesterday your boss said otherwise.]] How's that? I would like to ask you why, if these are such safe, well-controlled, well-controlled vaccines in an experiment, they will not be submitted to the European Medicines Agency. Why are these allowed in Hungary on the surrane tracks provided by the Hungarian government? What about the economy and, above all, unemployment? You, of course, are willing to talk about only one piece of data, this is employment. They just forget that within employment data, if we look deeper, we can see that today, otherwise, there are many times the number of part-time workers or even zero hours of employment data, which means that there are number of employees on the job. In other words, it is statistically possible to manage to stay at the level of employment, but who is actually talking to people at all because it is not the Hungarian government, it can listen to a series of terrible stories about what it means when someone is working as a pizza courier today instead of a previous job in a few hours; what it means when he is on a job and receives a minimum amount of money; what it means when he is employed in half-times or even less than his previous job. You've given up on those who lost their jobs because of the epidemic, and you can boast about 70 percent wage support, just think of a restaurant where they had to shut down what it means to get 70 percent of the wage costs. And how do you pay for the rest? And how do you pay the rent? How do they pay the rent? And by the way, how does the entrepreneur survive? Or doesn't he matter? In other words, all you've done is fake measures to protect jobs, and now you're trying to hide it with fake statistics. They refuse to face the crisis and refuse to face the real situation of the economy. We heard the victory reports today and yesterday. There is nothing more pathetic when the Prime Minister or Congressman boasts that last year the economy has fallen by only five percent, and, well, there are worse things. Hungarian citizens do not deserve that there is worse, they deserve that the economy face the economic crisis in substance. But you can't do that, except your economic defense plan didn't save the economy. They only provide substantial support from this to those circles other than throwing money away to a lot of things that are not economic at all, and within the economy, they only help those who are already pro-starters of this system, let's say, large hotel companies and far from the small ones. I must tell you that there are some very simple measures that would really provide substantial support. For example, companies, businesses such as those in hospitality, but not only there, in the health industry, culture, to give some more examples, who have been obliged to be closed since November, who cannot work to protect all of us from the effects of the epidemic, these businesses and, of course, those who work there automatically receive 80% of their previous income without any particular bureaucratic entertainment. Either those who have lost their jobs because of the coronal virus or who have been forced into part - time work will receive 80% of their lost income. Do you know how much that would cost? It's a lot of money, but I'll tell you one tenth of it. The one you've been throwing out of the window for the past few months under an economic protection plan. This could have saved all the businesses that were in a difficult situation and saved all the workers who were in a difficult situation. No, my fellow Members, to this policy, to the policy that hides its head in the sand from the real problems, and deals exclusively with the prognosis of success, and believes that the crisis can be dealt with here in Parliament and in the morning with the lies on the radio, we do not give our name to this policy and we do not give our support. Finally, let us also talk about how you understand the disease management and this bill. You have also used the past months to create a cold civil war, to attack the opposition in every way, to try to eliminate all independent and autonomous operations in every way. They want to put their hands on all the universities, rewrite the constitution one-sidedly, rewrite the electoral law, ban the only independent, government-critical radio that still exists. And after that, can you say that this has nothing to do with this? ! You say that you expect the opposition to cooperate, but in fact you ignore the entire opposition, and I don't care how we are treated here in Parliament, because I'm sorry, but we don't expect anything better from you, we'd feel bad if you were nice to us or at least fair, but our constituents were ignored. They ignore the multitude that is the same size as your electoral camp, they ignore this crowd, they want to destroy their institutions, they want to exclude their representatives from all decisions. We are not partners in this, my fellow Members, we do not give our names to this. If you want to fight, then we will fight, too, and we will not pretend to cooperate with you in any way. What about this bill? In this bill, they are now complaining that we have not given consent either to urgency or to outside the house, because we believe that a bill of this magnitude should be or should be discussed in normal circumstances, in normal parliamentary process. But, my fellow Members, what prevented the government from bringing this bill to Parliament at the end of January or at the beginning of February? What stopped you? We initiated Parliament's session on the epidemic, and you didn't come. There would have been a great opportunity to suggest that we include this bill. You have created the situation of having to negotiate here in Parliament with urgency and out-of-house legislation. Let us add that it is also apparent that they lied in March and now, when they say that the opposition is threatening to operate, because despite the fact that the previous authorisation law expired on 10 February, if I remember correctly, now almost a week and a half ago. [[11.40]] But that's not the point. The point is, you don't want to agree, you don't want to cooperate, you put this bill in this way to be a conflict. And, of course, this has already been analysed by my fellow Members, which is why they have also written that Parliament should praise the government for the fact that the disease control has been successful. This one's in there too! [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] You didn't want to cooperate, you didn't want a compromise, you wanted a conflict. All right, if you want conflict, that's what we're gonna do. And not because we're looking for some kind of political gain. You are saying that we should ignore political considerations. We can easily overlook those. We can't ignore the country's interest. We cannot ignore the fact that a government that does not comply with the rules of political cooperation and democracy is asking for a mandate here, but is going through them. A government that, in the last three months, instead of dealing with the epidemic, instead of destroying the municipalities in political interests, tried to control everything and shoveled public funds out of the budget to its buddies, friends and political partners. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He shoveled it with a pitchfork! Dr. Pál Völner's name.]] And now a government that, by the way, refuses to face reality, refuses to face the situation of the economy, the situation in which people are in, the state of health, the serious situation of the disease control and the terrible chaos in the area of vaccination, the vaccine. We're not giving you any support, we're not giving you permission to do that. We're going to ask you for the lives you've wasted, the lives you've ruined, we're going to ask you to be accounted for. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the stolen billions of public money. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Free Music School!]]
u2021-02-16-48	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We're here to discuss an important matter. I would like to start by thanking everyone who has done their job to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people with respect. I have heard the government's buttocks, we can say that the exposé of the letter of the law, and then we have heard the speeches of the governing parties. By the way, there was a sharp difference in tone, and now you can see it. I saw that Congressman Hende presented the bill with a quite normal, constructive tone. Compared to what Vejkey and Congressman Hollik have applied, I think it was outrageous and unworthy, and it is such shameful, lying speeches and this style that seriously destroys the dignity of Parliament. And what was shocking was that if someone followed this debate, followed the comments of the pro-government speakers, they could see that no self-critical thought or comment had been made. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Are you satisfied with this situation? Do you believe that in this terrible situation, in this epidemiological situation, in the midst of this deep socio-economic crisis, you have not made a mistake? Don't you think any of your moves were harmful? Was it a mistake? Don't you think you're responsible for the extremely serious, tragic situation that has arisen? Don't you think that any of your actions should be apologized to the Hungarian people, the Hungarian society? They have shown no self-criticism, no remorse whatsoever, so it is natural for the opposition to draw attention to the serious mistakes, the contradictions that we experience in your rhetoric, in your operation, in your actions, in your shameful government performance. You're talking about collaboration, cooperation, trust. In comparison, you have not lived, but have abused the extraordinary mandate that the opposition voted for your government in November with full consensus. One of their first steps was to launch an immediate political attack on the municipalities. Within the framework of the extraordinary mandate, they approached the funding of the municipalities and, in addition to the fact that last year it was visible that the municipalities were constantly hit by a series of harsh restrictions, now, with this first step taken in the extraordinary mandate by regulation, they practically pushed the municipalities to the edge of their ability to function. And let it be clear to everyone who is monitoring the work of the Parliament, that they are not attacking the cities, not the districts, not the small settlements, not the villages, not the harming them, but directly harming the Hungarian people by making it impossible to maintain basic public services. We know that, in this extremely serious situation, the municipalities are the number one bastions of defence, and, together with the loss of very, very much resources from large cities to small settlements, on the other hand, they have faced a great deal of additional tasks. And instead of doing what you had to do to give the municipalities the most important resources necessary for their defence and operation, you put the municipalities in an impossible position, and the political calculation was clearly understandable, because it was apparent that, in the case of the cities where they lost the municipal elections in October 2009, they forced the city leaders and the city leaders into a situation of political blackmail. This is outrageous, you have taken these steps within the framework of the extraordinary legal order. It was obvious that instead of spending all resources, all available resources and resources that could be transferred in the budget, on the protection of the economy, on the support of the most difficult families in Hungary, you are taking forward the ever-reimbursing, gigantic and unnecessary investments, in many cases even encrypting the related documents, and when we ask again and again how many jobs you are creating, how much you are counting on, they are not even willing to answer these questions. We can list these gigantic investments. We can say that you have renounced the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs to carry these on. In this context, your economic protection programme was insufficient, you can throw any kind of macro numbers, you can see that there has been a deep social and economic crisis in Hungary. In the meantime, of course, their own moonyards, their own oligarchs, were immediately supported with high speed with Hungarian taxpayers' money in such a severe epidemiological situation during a deep socio-economic crisis. Congressman Hollik has been underestimating that we know precisely that we have received certain legislative proposals, not by regulation, but by traditional parliamentary procedure, in order of business. That's true. You said in your exposé that the most important thing right now is defence, and we agree on that, and that everything must be subject to that. Then why did they bring the amendment of the electoral law and the amendment of the Fundamental Law to Parliament in such a serious, epidemiological situation? Why do they give hundreds of billions of dollars in trust funds? And why have they started a process, otherwise in serious contradiction with themselves, that universities and now the largest rural universities are privatized, basically organized into private foundations? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: At their request. Dr. Pál Völner: We do not privatize.]] Yeah, that's probably part of the traditional legislative system, but what does that have to do with the disease control? How and how do you think it is responsible to make such a so-called university model change during a serious pandemic? So I think it's amazing that you're going to ask for further authorization when, I repeat, you didn't live, but abused this extraordinary authority. I can say quite clearly that, as the LMP fraction did not vote in favour of this extraordinary legal order, Mr Arató justified that this derogation from the urgency procedure or house rules was not possible in this way, which you could have brought before Parliament in a normal legal order, we have not voted in favour of this procedure, nor will we vote in favour of this extraordinary mandate again. And while you're talking about responsibility and trust, and the lack of self-criticism must be identified together in your case, let us recall, once again, what Minister Gergely Gulyás said here about the effects of the epidemic, taking into account its possible effects for the age group under 65. I will not repeat this extremely irresponsible statement, because stupidity, such dangerous, irresponsible statements, must not be spread in order to reach more people. I think the least they could have done was to make such an extremely irresponsible statement and underestimate the risk of an epidemic by one of your most important ministers, but they didn't do that either. But here, at the beginning of the extremely serious and tragic second wave, is a very irresponsible statement from one of your State Secretarys. Ferenc Jakab, professor of virology in Pécs, who was asked by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology to lead the Coronary Virus Research Centre, drew attention at the end of September to the fact that while the restrictive measures were justified at the time of the first wave, they were quick, they were not seen by the experts, and they called attention to the extreme severity of the situation, and said that if these measures were not taken as soon as possible, they would cause very serious trouble. [[11.50]] At the beginning of October, one of your State Secretarys said in a television interview that there were such alarms in connection with the first wave, and the numbers stabilized; so on 2 October, one of your State Secretarys says that the numbers are stabilizing. Well, you wouldn't have to apologize to the government for saying that you didn't see the dangers of the second wave in itself, one of the influential secretary of state, the Deputy Minister said on October 2nd that the numbers had stabilized? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] This tells us everything about your irresponsibleness, your unpreparedness, and the fact that, yes, you can make a mistake, but you should at least correct it and apologize if you make such serious mistakes. And then in a little bit more detail about the municipalities. We have had a lot of discussions about how difficult it was for small settlements to be in the first place by taking away their only substantial income in many places. Then you have made a promise that if you really unduly put small settlements in a difficult position with your austerity policy, you will correct this step. They haven't done it since. I live in Baranya County, one of the most fragmented settlements, 301 settlements here. I am constantly approached by small-town leaders, and they tell me that they are in a virtually impossible situation because of your austerity in this extremely difficult situation. Well, when will they fulfill that promise? When will you sit down with these city leaders, and when will you correct these serious restrictions? But if we look back or look at the problems in the metropolitan area, the most recent withdrawal of business tax, the withdrawal of vehicle tax, the withdrawal of the government from public transport, all of which, even in a period outside the crisis, would create problems that the municipality, the cities, cannot manage on their own. How responsible is the policy of the government that, compared to making up for these resources, they are using new restrictions? Once again, the maintenance of the most important public services for the people living there has been put at risk in particular. They won't be able to sustain them. More and more cities are hearing that, in the case of public transport, they are forced to enforce a significant reduction in flights against your previous decision, which, by the way, rightly require the compression of flights, because it is clear that congestion must be avoided in such a critical epidemiological period. Well, why don't you give these cities the minimum resources they need to maintain public transport? In one of the speeches before the agenda, perhaps Minister Balázs Orbán said that outside the capital city, rural cities will no longer receive any central support for the maintenance of public transport. That's what you're proud of? That's pretty amazing. I demand that you, as a responsible government, really sit down with local government leaders and mayors, immediately finish this shameful austerity policy that has been going on for more than a year, and give the municipalities the resources necessary for basic operation and defence for the people who live there, so that these cities can operate, the public services can be maintained, and the municipalities can also defend themselves in the epidemiological situation. We could also list the shameful measures which again had nothing to do with the epidemiological defence, such as the extension of the period for the provision of data of general interest and other measures which were again not justified. But if we are talking about economic protection in a little bit more detail, those numbers, which my fellow Members have already spoken about, are again not correct. You can see that 100,000 small and micro enterprises are interrupting their activities, they have received no support from you. In relation to unemployment data, you also have an extraordinary distortion of these data. It can be seen that the number of job seekers increased by 20 percent between January 2020 and January 2021. And this is all in connection with the fact that despite the various proposals we have put in here, the proposals for their wider support, you have swept them down, often in a cynical way, at the Economic Commission meeting, on the grounds that there are no funds, and on the other hand, hundreds of billions are being poured out to fund projects that never return. Congressman Nacsa and I have had a lot of discussions, and I think we will also be discussing the Budapest-Belgrád railway project. Why did you guys encrypt that? Just yesterday, I received the latest cynical response from Secretary Schanda. I asked that if, according to your calculations, the cost of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project in two years is equivalent to the creation of 175 000 jobs, then how many jobs will this create in such a severe crisis. Do you know that? Once again, Secretary Schanda refused to answer me, it's outrageous! So you're encrypting everything, and these resources, these hundred billion, are spent on projects that never return, and cynically encrypting the related documents. But it is also quite amazing, and I hope that in their rejoinder they will mention this, that Lőrinc Mészáros has taken out over 11 billion dividends from his construction companies, and on the other hand, his hotel chain receives nearly 18 billion dollars of Hungarian taxpayers' money. Explain that to me. You are always talking about creating such a national capitalist oligarch layer, because how good it will be for Hungarian society. Well, where are their oligarchs now, why aren't the oligarchs helping? Why is it that, in such a difficult situation, Hungarian people are not supported by such so-called oligarchs as you call them national? In fact, even in such a crisis situation, taxpayers' money accounts for 18 billion. Well, if Lőrinc Mészáros's multimillion-billion-dollar public procurement works so well that he was able to extract 11 billion-dollar dividends from his construction companies, then why doesn't he help his own hotel chain, why does he have to register net profits again, and why does he still receive 18 billion-dollar subsidies from taxpayers during such a deep crisis? And finally, closing the debate that you are saying, that many of the legislative proposals did not come before the Parliament with the extraordinary mandate, not with the rule of law, but with the traditional procedure: well, here is the case of universities, which you are now lying about as a model change. Practically outsourcing, privatizing the largest rural universities, but now Pécs has come, Szeged has come, and Debrecen has also taken place. But let's be clear, this isn't a change of model. What's happening here is that you're putting universities, university assets, university real estate and university decision-making into private foundations with curators running the foundations being appointed by you. These curators can't be recalled, and curators can take every decision about universities. This will not damage the university's autonomy, but will cease. And you are launching this process during a serious pandemic, despite the fact that you cannot even carry out a meaningful personal consultation process, and despite the fact that during last year's debates, Secretary of State Bódis himself said that you are taking careful steps and that, in the case of large rural universities, you are not planning this step, but you have taken it. This also shows that you are making a political profit [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What the opposition is accused of is really being enforced by you, even in a time of such a severe crisis in your decision-making. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-50	Thank you very much, Mr. László Keresztes. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Mr János Bencsik, in a 15-minute timeframe.
u2021-02-16-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am hearing here as a recurring turn of events in the Coronary Virus Act debate, but also in any other debate other than that of government representatives about how Hungarian people should act responsibly, how they should comply with the rules, how they should follow the rules. With due respect, I'm asking you to finish this as a matter of urgency. [[Intercoms from the benches of the ruling parties, including, "We didn't say that..."]] My fellow Member Nacsa, a number of people have stressed that they are asking people to continue to be disciplined. We do not need to bring people and Hungarians into discipline, Hungarian people are very disciplined, we are one of the most disciplined people in European comparison. In fact, sometimes one feels that we are too disciplined to follow the rules. The Hungarian people do not expect education and education, but do they know what they expect, fellow Members? An example. These people expect politicians, and especially members of the government, not to teach them how to endure the months ahead, but to set an example, for example, in the case of casinos. If everyone is asked to lock up the entire country, they should also lock down the casinos of the oligarchs associated with you. If everyone has to shut down, they're gonna have to shut down István Garancsi's casinos, or they're gonna open it for him. then you can open it to everyone, not be more equal than equals. State Secretary Völner also asked for patience in his speech. Secretary of State, I do not want to be demagogic, but I cannot help but say that it is very easy to ask people to be patient and to be patient that someone arrives at their bank account on the first day of each month at HUF 1.6 million net, while very many people are receiving their wage supplement promised in November if they receive it at all. [[12.00]] If every Hungarian citizen were to receive HUF 1.6 million each month, then, believe me, Mr. Secretary, the people would be very patient. They might regret not being able to go to the movies or have coffee with their friend, but they'd be more patient, that's for sure. Orbán said in his radio interview with Kossuth one week that he understood that the hosts lack freedom and, as he said, lack freedom and social life. This is also a huge misunderstanding. Of course, we all miss freedom and social life, but the hosts and the people who, in his words, are putting pressure on the government are not primarily lacking freedom and good social life. But do they know what it is? The predictability, the planning, the consistency that power requires of its citizens, but it does not consider it binding on itself, and in the case of many, and in the case of tens of thousands of families, it is a mere livelihood. The Secretary of State said that at the end of May, if everything goes well, we'll have the 70 percent graft. I'd like to ask you how. Because if everything stays this way, that GPs have two or three hours to call around to see who can be vaccinated, and at the vaccination points, you have to recruit people in Facebook groups closed one or two hours before the end of vaccination, that there are seven or eight more vaccines left that will get to them; if such chaos in the vaccination schedule continues to be such an opaque system, then I have very strong doubts that this grafting can be achieved. But you can't go here under the responsibility of the opposition. What I see is that most of the opposition parties are trying to capitalise on political capital, and I think it is a very, very bad way, out of the fundamental mistrust, which, of course, stems from all the contradictions and inconsistencies that the government is dealing with this epidemic. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] When, say, Peter Szijjártó wants to decide which vaccine is to be given, all reasonable people must, of course, object to that. But I would very much ask my fellow opposition Members, especially DK, not to question the integrity and scientific competence of Hungarian doctors, researchers and the administrative authorities responsible for this. Let us not think that, in itself, the approval of something by a Brussels authority would in any way be better or more reliable than that approved by a Hungarian authority. Let us not think that Brussels organisations have no political pressure or no pharmaceuticals. Of course there are. At the same time, I think that I agree with the Prime Minister on very few points, and I think that, as the government has dealt with this crisis in recent months, the vast majority of it is quite simply incomprehensible and often unacceptable. But the government is right in that if we do not get enough vaccines from Brussels and the European Union institutions within a reasonable period of time, then we must open up the opportunity and create the opportunity for safe, effective vaccines from either Russia or China. When opposition parties harass Hungarians against Russian and Chinese vaccines, they undermine this trust. Despite the fact that the president of DK is also on the side of vaccination, he will inoculate himself if various Facebook groups associated with DK and the media are constantly trying to increase the mistrust of people, Hungarian voters, against vaccines. It should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, on the right and on the left, in opposition and in government, that mass opening is only possible if mass vaccination is achieved. It is not possible to require the opening to be resolved by rejecting the vaccine. The Hungarian opposition and the Hungarian public, the press, must do everything in their power to ensure that Hungarian vaccine purchases are carried out in a transparent manner, but otherwise, if we are convinced and the Hungarian authorities say that there is enough safe vaccine available, we have no reason to doubt this. I talked to opposition parties and actors about the false attitude of the vaccine. You can't go to the Prime Minister here under his personal responsibility. Orbán asked the opposition representatives yesterday to stop their anti-vaccination campaign. In the meantime, there is little mention of the fact that Fidesz or NER is behind a dynamic, virulently developing Hungarian anti-vaccination movement, namely Gődény's viral, anti-vaccination political fraud and fraud, or personally, who, by the way, were able to escape in 2018, with money obtained through election fraud, since then, they have not been held responsible. There is a growing circle in Hungary, the leader of which is Gődény, who is likely to be the leader of the 2022 elections, because they announced their departure as a party, they can expect significant votes. These votes will mostly be taken from opposition voters, among whom, thanks to the government's crisis management and the opposition's work, the most anti-vaccination. There is a clear and clear political link between the political interest of Fidesz and the anti-vaccination movement. So... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] My fellow Member! Press the button and give me your opinion on this. Finally, a few words have been said here, my fellow Member Harangozó has dissected the relationship between power and responsibility. All of you are talking about national cooperation, everyone is talking about the need for joint action, that we must join forces now during the epidemic. But what does this look like in practice? In practice, it looks like the government will decide what will happen, and if the others will accept it, approve it, then there will be national cooperation. And if they make their own amendments, however well-intentioned, professionally based, I myself have submitted at least a dozen or a half dozen proposals for resolutions and legislative proposals since the first wave, then they will be swept aside without debate. These will be postponed at committee meetings so that no vote can be taken in plenary. I would like to draw your attention to the simple fact that joint cooperation and joint action also involve a partial division of power. So if, by the way, you have every right to consider the responsibility of opposition parties and opposition representatives, then this cannot be done by completely excluding everyone from making decisions. Or that if everyone is excluded and no one is given a say, then they also assume their political responsibility for the health and economic impact of both the laws adopted and the treatment of viruses. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-02-16-52	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovak ethnic advocate Antal Paulik, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2021-02-16-53	-akujem za slovo, pan predseda! Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Vážený pán predseda, poslanci, hovorcovia! Vo svojom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností Ma.arska, ktoré sme si vytvorili na zasadnutí národnostného výboru 15. february k návrhu zákona o ochrane proti svetovej pandémii pod číslom T/14800. Mr President, Honourable Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! In my speech, the position of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary is set out in T/14800. In the context of the legislative proposal No. As we know, the outbreak and spread of the pandemic in all countries of the world determines the activities of governments. Defence and various protection measures have also become key themes for local policy in the Member States of the European Union, which are being discussed in ongoing political debates following decisive or less decisive action by individual governments. Their content and quality can be calm, constructive, but also rather sharp and violent, depending on the composition of the government in that country, the strength of the opposition and the political culture there. Of course, as part of Hungarian society, Hungarian ethnicities primarily monitor domestic measures, as they can provide them with protection from the pandemic, but of course they also pay particular attention to the government measures of their mother countries. As a result of the attacks on the motherland, we have found that all our neighbouring or remote mother countries are trying to prevent the spread of the virus in a similar way. The triple rule of hand sanitization-reservation-mask is now the basis for protection in all European countries. In addition, governments are primarily looking for ways out of the situation in terms of economic shutdown and the operation of the economy. [[12.10]] Some countries are looking for solutions to national or regional testing, which seems to have helped to stop the spread of the Covid virus, but with subsequent relaxation, the situation has deteriorated almost everywhere. Today, the solution in all neighbouring countries, regardless of whether it is a Member State of the EU or a non-EU country, is sought in vaccination with a beautiful Hungarian word, in order to inoculate the population as widely as possible. In most European countries, one or all of the vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency are used, the safety and effectiveness of which is convinced by the competent authorities in all EU Member States. Here I would like to mention the example of Slovakia, where the population is vaccinated with three vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency, so if there are any disputes about vaccines, they are about including other available vaccines in the vaccination process or not. In Slovakia, therefore, changes to the previous vaccination plan in the last weekend have started the accelerated vaccination of teachers in order to open up the possibility of presence education to schools after approval by the district health authorities. The plan was to open the school buildings from Monday in the districts where the number of new diseases makes this possible. Yes, but from the vaccination vaccine AstraZeneca, a large percentage of vaccinated teachers complained of chills and muscle pain and reported sick the next day, so the schools that originally wanted to open had to postpone the introduction of presence education until Wednesday. I repeat, this is a British-Swedish vaccine approved by the European Medicines Agency and already used at home. Another example is Serbia. Here, the population has been vaccinated for almost a month, including Hungarians and other ethnicities living there, with the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine. Using Community relations there, we have been informed about the impact of this and have not heard of mass or similar side effects to the example in Slovakia that make it impossible to work. However, it is understandable that debates are taking place here at home on the individual vaccines. At the same time, the wider outlook provides justification for confirming almost all arguments. However, one thing seems certain: that the next time the solution is solved, mass vaccination may lead. An accurate opinion on the effectiveness of the existing and the previous government measures will not be possible until several months have passed. After this introduction, let us return to the bill before us. I would like to inform this House that the bill on the agenda has been discussed by our committee at its meeting on 15 February 2021 and that its opinion has been formulated as an associated committee. The 69 government regulations listed in the bill, adopted during the previous period of protection against the coronal virus and confirmed by the current bill, affect members of the 13 nationalities native to Hungary in several ways. First of all, I would like to mention 479/2020. Government Decree No 6/C In addition, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that the Commission is not in a position to take into account the fact that it is not in a position to take account of the fact that it is not in a position to take account of the fact that it is not in a position to take account of the fact that it is not in a position to take account of the fact that it is not in a position to take account of the fact that it is not in a position to take account of the As we know, the census is a priority for our nationalities in several respects: on the one hand, because every ten years, it examines in a national overview exactly how many Hungarian citizens claim to be members of a nationality; on the other hand, the number thus born is the certain objective data to which the exercise of nationality rights is linked on several points. The local data of the census determines the settlements in which national elections may take place, and subsequently the central support for the operation of local minority self-governments will also depend on this data. The census is therefore of paramount importance in these two aspects. The change of date can have a positive impact on the organisation and effectiveness of information provided to the national population following the slowdown in the spread of the pandemic, and we therefore welcome this provision and its confirmation. The protection measures applicable to educational and educational institutions naturally affect national education institutions, including kindergartens and schools operating in the maintenance of local or national minority self-governments. The functioning and presence education of kindergartens and primary schools are ongoing, and we, the teachers involved and the parents, take note of their difficulties. As a maintainer of high school education in distance education, all relevant national minority self-governments are trying to help, and although, according to feedback, there is an increase in tension among graduates in preparing for graduations, we trust that the number of vaccinations will soon be able to return presenceal education in secondary schools. The draft shall be drawn up in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 4 (4). It also directly affects the functioning of our local, county and national self-governments and the regulations related to the interim election of national minority self-governments. We fully agree with the regulation of the dissolution of the bodies of representatives and then the launch of the new interim elections, and in this connection our committee has not expressed an opinion. CXXVIII of 2011 on disaster management and amending certain related laws. Law 46. The mayor or the mayor or the chairman of the county assembly shall exercise the functions and powers of the representative body of the local government, the general assembly of the capital and county in emergency situations pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Article. The provisions of this legislation also apply to the representative bodies and chairmen of local, regional and national self-governments. The regulation is clear and clear, however, in cases where the President considers that the weight of the issue requires, for example, major financial, investment decisions, modification of remunerations, awards, non-delayable legal issues, the bodies there assist the presidents in the work and decision-making process organised by informal voting on an online basis, as a general meeting, but not formal, without voting, sometimes online or by e-mail. This practice, which has been common to several national minority self-governments in the past, and in the same way as in the text, points out that Article 21 of the Act on the Law of the Republic of Moldova on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Rights of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of China on the Law of the People of the People of the People's Republic of China and the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China on the Republic of China on the Law of China on the Law of China on the Law of the Law of the Law of the People of the People of the People of the People of the People of the People of the Republic of the People of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the We have no doubt that Hungarian IT professionals are able to create the necessary technical and safety conditions. Of course, not in the current situation, we are not now asking for a solution to this problem, because we can see and perceive that there are many more important regulatory and other defence tasks ahead, but in the medium term we consider it important to resolve the issue, and as soon as the situation allows, we will start preparing the professional materials needed for the amendment and initiating the necessary consultations. Dear House, With the comments made, the Parliament's Committee on Nationalities in Hungary supports the bill unchanged and proposes it to the plenary session for adoption. -akujem Vám za posornost! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-54	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I have listened to the debate here, the speech of the lead speakers, and I have thought of two things, one for everyone: I see that only virologists and doctors are sitting in the room, because after everyone draws attention to the fact that politics should not interfere, we leave it to the professionals, and then everyone will explain what should be done with the vaccine, or even with the opening or closing of the country. I'd say it's the right thing to say, and we should stop there and let the doctors and the virologists have it. This is also true of the ruling party, but it is also true of us, and also of opposition representatives, that we are often not so serious about what we are saying, if I may say so. My other comment is more about the ruling party. Many of us have drawn our attention to the need to work together now, to work together, not to make a party policy issue out of this epidemiological situation, while I see that when the opposition gives us the authority to rule this extraordinary regulation, we are also the obstacles to the resolution of the epidemic, the anti-vaccinations, the evils who do not want the solution; even if we do not give it up, we are. So it's a little like if we're wearing a hat, the problem is, if we're not wearing a hat, that's the problem. For my part, I do not know how the MSZP fraction will decide for sure I will not support this regulation on this occasion either, for many reasons, I will talk about it later and several Members have said so, but I would like to remind them that cooperation always begins with the government making gestures to the opposition. Last time we made a gesture, voted in favour of your regulation governance, but you didn't make any gestures to the opposition, even attacking the opposition every time as a party political issue, and accusing us of something that is clearly not true. I mean, everyone in this room wants this plague to end as soon as possible, everyone looking for a solution, one way or the other, and I find it particularly outrageous and vile. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the opposition is accused by pro-government representatives of anti-vaccination and of obstructing the resolution of the epidemic situation. Shame on you for that sentence. Thank you very much. [[12.20]]
u2021-02-16-56	Dear Parliament, As no further two-minute speeches have been made, there are now further speeches by Members who have announced their intention to speak in advance in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2021-02-16-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill could be dealt with with with an epidemic, we're in the middle of a pandemic, so it's natural to extend the government's authority to effectively combat the virus and to combat the virus's negative effects on health or the economy. If we couldn't have listened to the verbal rampage we've been listening to in the last two hours, then we could have done so much of this bill, because of the natural need for an extension, because we're in the middle of the pandemic. And although we have overcome the first wave and managed to control the second wave, we see that the virus is growing throughout Europe, so it is important that we continue to comply with the restrictive measures and that the vaccine will allow for a gradual and responsible reboot. I would like to respond to left-wing Members, because in many cases what they have said do not meet reality in any way, and even outrageous lies have been said here by honourable Members. It's the same album again: false news, attack by authorities and professionals. The representative of Jobbik, László György Lukács, said that democratic decision-making and negotiation of such a law is necessary in the Parliament, because what is the most democratic institution in Hungary? The Hungarian Parliament. Then he criticized the Parliament's adoption of laws in the autumn session; the electoral law, or the amendment of the basic law, was said by the Member, how despicable it was that Parliament had discussed these proposals in a normal, democratic manner, and then accepted them with majority support. I see a little double standard, and it has also come up with Mr Keresztes, because László Keresztes said why we are dealing with electoral law here in Parliament, why we have dealt with laws that are not related to a virus epidemic. We only need a quick search for a parliamentary home page to see that Mr Keresztes, in the middle of the crisis, the bill submitted in an emergency, in relation to property declarations, waste, the past of state security, water, Balaton, water protection, all important issues, honourable Member, but do not say that we cannot submit or that the government cannot submit legislative proposals on issues unrelated to the epidemic, but you can submit such legislative proposals. With regard to the MSZP, I would like to say to Mr Harangozó, who raised the question of foreign exchange credentials, that from a socialist Member on the issue of foreign exchange credentials, I do not think that we deserve any lectures. After all, since the housing benefits have been abolished, favourable housing loans have been abolished, since family tax incentives have been abolished and hundreds of thousands of families have been forced into the harmful and dangerous foreign currency credit scheme, in the context of socialist crisis management, and therefore, in foreign exchange lending, we do not deserve to be lectured by the socialists. But it is also worth looking at and comparing left-wing crisis management, as Congressman Arató has also spoken about it. He was a member of the government that took a month's pension from pensioners, which took a month's wages from health workers, which raised personal income tax, increased excise duty, and led to gas and district heating compensation, which put 1.5 million families in a very difficult situation, as they tripled the price of gas while the compensation and assistance were stopped. Mr Harvester was a prominent member of this government. The breathing machine problem has also been found again, the cap is on again, there is no cap: the first problem was that there were not enough ventilators, and then the problem was that there were too many ventilators. Decide, ladies and gentlemen, why you want to attack the government, because it has become your hobby to use health protection through professionals, through the authorities, for the sole purpose of attacking the government. It is good for you that the government is bad and if it is bad for the country, because this is what you hope for political gain. Congressman Harvest said that there is political pressure on the pharmaceutical authority. This was the last time your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, was a secretary of the Central Committee. It was the communist power that put the various Hungarian authorities under political pressure to better remember the time when your boss was acting as a central committee secretary. What I would like to say, honourable Member, is that you are slipping again on the issue of the vaccine. You are targeting vaccines, you are giving the mood against certain vaccines, and your representative of the European Parliament, according to Hungarian legislation and European legislation, would be charged to the European Commission. They are not responsible for calling the Hungarian government to account, as the opposition or pro-government representatives sitting here, but are accountable to the European Commission. Ferenc Gyurcsány, who conducted the campaign of the Prime Minister's candidacy [[Gergely Arató: Klára Dobrev, his name, memorize it! The president's ringing the bell.]] Why don't you knock at the European Commission? Why don't you ask me why the Russian and Chinese vaccine hasn't been approved yet? But I see you weren't listening yesterday, because yesterday your boss said that the Russian and Chinese vaccines will soon be authorised by the European Commission. And you're talking about wasted lives. Then how much wasted life would it be if anyone listened to you again in this country, and much later, months later, the Russian or Chinese vaccine came to Hungary? How much life would be wasted if the Russian and Chinese vaccines could only be vaccinated in Hungary in summer or autumn? The congressman can't answer that. Gergely Arató didn't mention why Peter Niedermüller didn't host 600 music schools during the emergency, even though it was promised why he put them on the street, why they couldn't have a home, and why they gave that beautiful renovated building to their friends on the left. Nor did Mr Arató mention why the amount of contracts with Csaba Czeglédy, the criminal, now reaches 150 million, is now the sum of the Mayor's exclusive powers, taking advantage of the emergency. We haven't heard from the congressman. You have asked why Parliament is not discussing this bill in a normal timetable. Because if it were up to you, from next week, one and a half million families would have to repay their loans, because the credit moratorium would stop; then the payment of wage subsidies would stop; then families would not be able to require a home renovation program, because we can see that this program is extremely popular and contributes to the economic reopening, by the way. You don't think it matters. You would leave on the side of the road the 1.5 million families to whom the credit moratorium helps, the 60,000 businesses to which the credit moratorium helps, the sectors that receive the wage support; you all forget about these people and these businesses. The Member also spoke about GDP data, and the Head of the Cross also said that we are throwing macro numbers. When there are data and facts to be recognised, you cannot argue with Eurostat data, there are always two types of political pamphlet: throwing macro numbers and giving production reports. These are the facts, honourable Member. Important facts, since the GDP decline in Hungary was 5.1 percent, there was a decline in all European countries, but in most European countries it was much bigger. The neighbouring Austria's GDP fell by 7.5 percent and France's by 11 percent, while the performance of the Hungarian economy increased in the last quarter, and Hungarian workers and Hungarian employers were able to create this number, which is obviously a negative figure in the middle of a global crisis, but of course Gergely Arató wisely listens to the fact that in 2009 the same figure was 6.7 percent when GDP fell in 2009. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] When you always say that it was an economic crisis, when the elderly and the families were afflicted and pressed, the left-wing reflex started, it's just the tax increase that the left-wing mayors are thinking about. That's why I'm grateful to the government that he forbade left-wing mayors from throwing more faces at the people who live there. And here we come to a very important question, the question of local government. I would like to ask Mr Crusades whether the municipality is for the people, or the people are for the municipalities. You're on the other side of the horse. It is not the people who have to save the local government that the local government has to serve the local people. [[12.30]] And that money, such as business tax in small and medium-sized enterprises, stays in the settlement, there will be no withdrawal, honourable Member. In that settlement, those entrepreneurs, he stays with those businesses. And it's a huge help to them, because you know perfectly well that the business tax is to be paid on an income basis. So a company that has a hundred forints in revenue, and far from enough to pay wages [[Gergely Harvestó: And who has a zero-forint income?]] , it also has to pay the business tax, just to make sure that this can be paid to the municipality's account. This was not withdrawn by the state, it remained in that settlement and served the interests of the inhabitants of that settlement. So it's a very important question of local government, because we think the municipality is for the people, not the other way around. You're here to tell me that if Parliament works, the problem is, if it doesn't work, then the problem is why Parliament negotiates such laws, and why it doesn't, I don't know, Parliament is on a break. In March, we were accused of banning the functioning of Parliament, and now the problem is that we are negotiating laws which are not closely linked to the epidemic situation in a regular timetable. And, once again, you have submitted a number of legislative proposals that have nothing to do with the epidemic, and there is no problem with that. I would say to Congressman Mesterházy that the opposition did not make a gesture to the ruling parties when it voted 90 days ago to declare an emergency and to authorise it. This is your fundamental political duty in an epidemic situation! This isn't a gesture. We're in the middle of a crisis. The fact that you chess your every move based on political calculations, what now brings the vote to Ferenc Gyurcsány and what doesn't, and how to turn it into political interest and political gain [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: It's you!]] I don't know what to do with that. I'm sorry about that. But it is not a gesture that you have been graciously willing to vote, it is a fundamental duty in such a difficult situation! I think that it would be now, and that is why I ask you to reconsider the political position that you have just given here in the last two hours, because it is necessary in the middle of an epidemic situation that quick and effective decision-making can take place. The same conditions and guarantees are available in this law as before: Parliament can withdraw this at any time, it can end earlier than 90 days, the government can return this mandate at any time. We see that the arrival of the vaccine shipments and precisely because the government has taken action on time, not listening to your anti-vaccination policy, searching for all sources of supply, everywhere where people have been vaccinated, examining those sources of supply, has committed a sufficient amount of vaccine in time. Unlike the European Commission, which was late. You say that the vaccine used to inoculate tens of thousands of Hungarians 200 miles away from this Chamber is wrong. DK claimed a few weeks ago that the Russian vaccine was a human experiment, while Ferenc Gyurcsány said yesterday that the European Medicines Agency would be able to approve it soon. [[Gergely Harvestó: Once you submit it!]] You're talking about human experimentation! Why doesn't Ferenc Gyurcsány ask the European Medicines Agency why it doesn't go faster than that? [[Gergely Harvesto: Because they didn't submit it! The president's ringing the bell.]] Why don't you start negotiations with the different vaccine manufacturers? Why are they campaigning against vaccination, and why are vaccinations targeted so that Hungarians do not trust it? There is a clear trend in this, too, that you are not telling the truth - there is a constant increase in the appetite for vaccination in Hungary. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] More and more people want to get vaccinated. Even your voters believe that your false anti-vaccination campaign to target vaccines is wrong; even your voters think that the behaviour they are doing on this issue is shameful. That's why we're asking everyone to register, ask for the vaccine, and when it comes to it, get yourself vaccinated. We ask you, as honourable Members of Parliament, to vote on the side of the country in a crisis, to vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Those who are watching this debate from outside now have a very difficult time deciding what this proposal really is about without knowing what it is. It is also clear that there are very, very distant positions on the government side and representatives of the opposition. I think it's a good effort to try and solve this uncertainty. Obviously, it would be helpful to have a real dialogue; it would be helpful if the meetings of the Parliament were regularly and permanently transmitted by public media. [[Lőrinc Nacsa and István Hollik leave the meeting room.]] and perhaps then it would be easier for Hungarian citizens to decide, where appropriate, which opinion, which position they share. But not for the first time, I can see now that those who previously expressed their opinion on a loud and high horse have now left the room. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: They were hungry!]] However, I would do an experiment, even if very few people followed the meeting at this time, to shed light on what I think this proposal is about, what kind of groups the content can be divided into, and how it was developed on the opposition side that, if I understand it correctly, my fellow opposition Members and myself are standing unitedly and rejecting this proposal this time. Firstly, this proposal contains political recognition which is difficult to interpret in the specific situation for the government. This is completely unnecessary; it is obviously appropriate to a feudal, unnecessarily urifying world in which two thirds of you now believe that you should pat the government's shoulders. I believe that sentences of this type are not necessary in a presentation. Indeed, it speaks of a mandate, in particular, up to 90 days from the date of publication. That is why I did not understand my fellow Member Vejkey's statement here is also about the maintenance of many of the government regulations that have been adopted in the last three months, and the maintenance of their scope. So, in this sense, I do not share your view that this proposal is about the same thing as the previous proposal that declared the emergency. In fact, in a situation in which the government has requested a 90-day extension of the emergency that it has declared to Parliament for 15 days, few decisions have been made specifically in relation to disease management. So I think that in November, in the situation which was then in the country, this can be supported by former opposition representatives, on the opposition side, but today, in the context of a button push, we have to decide, in addition to the mandate, on an unnecessary political recognition, which is obviously a question of political positions, and also of the government regulations that have been adopted for the last three months. Therefore, this is obviously a much more complex issue and, as has been said, because it is so complex, this proposal cannot be supported. But let's go into why not, and some political reasons, if you want political recognition, let me mention it. The first is that a clear campaign was launched against opposition authorities. There's no question about that. What you've done with the local business tax, and the way you've done it, it makes this very clear. And let's not forget that in terms of county seats, in terms of county-righted cities, Fidesz-led county-rights cities, those living there were given Christmas gifts before Christmas, I say this in quotes to do compulsory municipal tasks, freely useable resources; then, they contributed one-and-a-half billion to such settlements. I could list cities with Fidesz-led county rights. The cities with the right of opposition in the county have been completely forgotten. It is an outrageous practice that has been taking place more and more in the last three months to distinguish, for example, between a citizen in Debrecen or a citizen in Nyíregyháza and a citizen in Miskolc. For all Hungarian citizens living in cities with county rights, there are appropriate services, even in terms of city management, from public transport to road maintenance to a lot of basic services, the same services and the same quality, regardless of how the citizens living in that city decided on 13 October 2019 to lead their settlement and what kind of majority should be on the board. This exercise is clearly a political witch hunt. And it's outrageous that they've been plotting these cities and their residents for over two months. That's what's happening in my hometown, Miskolc, and, frankly, I resent it, and I'm asking for what you're doing in this case on behalf of the Miskolcs. Stop it! There is no proposal here in this House that justifies this practice. [[12.40]] The compensation is not a charity from the government. I would also like to say that, of course, elsewhere we see that governments in countries with a happier fate, almost without exception in the European Union, have understood that municipalities are working on the front line of disease management, so we do not need to divert resources from local authorities, but because of their increased tasks and additional costs due to disease management, we need to transfer funds here, too. It contains this bill, and in the last three months, we have heard a lot of it, proposals, decisions that could be put together in a package, perhaps by preparing for your election defeat. I am thinking of the privatization of universities in the context of a later, virtually unconvertable construction, the hundreds of billions allocated to Mathias Corvinus College, and I am thinking of the terrible money spilled on the hunting exhibition. But I must also say that you can hear the news that the EU funds allocated to Hungary in connection with the corona virus and the resources of the seven-year development cycle are definitely intended to be contracted over the next very short period of time, and thus to determine the development of the next 7-8 years, reducing further the scope of the next government, which we hope will benefit from the support of today's opposition, in particular: we are preparing for a change of government. So you're making an amazing, thousands of billions of dollars of transfers, allocation of resources, prepared to influence the country's fate in other ways if you can't govern. This is also a problem with a democratic election, and many of their decisions on these issues are a democratic deficit. Third, let me put one thing on the table. Attila Mesterházy is right about the fact that too many people today feel like virologists, and perhaps many times we should leave the answers to certain questions and decisions to experts, health professionals, and epidemiological experts. However, there are statistical figures, from which policy and Members must also draw conclusions. Based on data available on an international site, which summarises international data on the number of deaths per million people in the corona virus epidemic, and this is an amazing, regrettable figure in the 12th worst place in the world in Hungary. You said that the Prime Minister said that the number of deaths would qualify for their disease management decisions and disease management. This is a terrible data that is amazingly thoughtful, and it certainly shows that some decisions were cancelled at the beginning of last autumn, and they were born late. You have a serious responsibility in this, too. Basically, what we in this House and the government should do with full responsibility is that the health, social and economic impacts caused by this epidemic should be dampened, resolved and decided to move from less important areas to really important areas. Let's take a look at these areas. As far as health is concerned, the policy of the past ten years, the health infrastructure that has been going down in many places, is not collapsing because healthcare workers, healthcare workers, doctors and nurses are doing amazing, heroinic, victim-ready work. All they have to do is thank you in this country. But the fact that this area has been neglected is very clear, a lot of other prestige aspects have been more important over the last ten years, and it is a serious lesson for the whole country that basic health problems need to be addressed. It was said that when they decided on health issues, there was something clearly, numerically, for some reason, that was wrong, or that they were wrong, or that there was something else behind it. I am thinking of the ventilators, which have been purchased in the order of magnitude that it is not possible to install so much in Hungary, and it is about 300 billion for taxpayers. To date, most of these machines are dusty, and obviously this acquisition was not clearly necessary in this sense in this order of magnitude. But I think that if such a proposal was only about the proposals of the epidemiological and health professionals, it would also be eligible, but it is not about that, because it lacks a lot of social policy decisions, and it has many unacceptable decisions against what is needed, and here I am thinking of the criminal stories on the SZFE, my fellow Members have referred to it, which are completely alien to such a proposal. In dealing with economic problems, it was also said last spring that the Hungarian economy could grow. It was a complete blind spot and a flawed diagnosis. It is clear that there is a huge deficit, a historic peak, and a record of public debt. There are complete sectors in crisis, and I am thinking of the catering sector, and the whole sector's cries for help have been released by their ears for months. In fact, they tried to move a few weeks ago, when in many cases this thing was delayed, a lot of people are in a very difficult financial situation. The municipalities: I would run through this very quickly. Support for local public transport has been withdrawn. This was in many cities with county rights, including Miskolc, with a large scale of 500 million, even though there was already a 900 million revenue loss in these companies due to the lack of travel. At the same time, public transport in Miskolc was expected to act more frequently as an epidemiological measure during the peak period. Well, it's very difficult to plan, and the MVK needs resources, and that's what you're supposed to reimburse, especially given the fact that many, many billions have not been paid to the company by the previous Fidesz city administration. So they have a serious debt on public transport. They made parking free of charge, but they did not compensate the municipalities. This is not entirely clear why it is related to the epidemiological measures. What's left of the car tax is 40 percent, but it's been taken away from the municipalities. How can they expect the local authorities to keep up the roads, to pay attention to basic city-management issues when they're getting away from here? This is 450 million forints for example in Miskolc. The local trade tax has already been sought to be withdrawn by the proposal of the National Competitiveness Council more than a year ago, which is a government body, so your involvement in this matter can be seen in action. Sales-based, in Hungarian: this decision provides a little less for those who are in real trouble, who do not have a turnover, or who have very, very drastically reduced turnover. The same magnitude could otherwise have been given to the sector as a subsidy, so that it would have been given to those in need and less so to those who have increased their turnover now because, let's say, they are working in a sector. In other words, you decided to do so specifically because you could also kick one in opposition-led municipalities. I could list the revenue losses that the cities had yet to account for in addition to your austerity. In the case of Miskolc, this total amount is about HUF 7 billion. I suggest you make a change. Make a difference. It's not too late. We will be submitting amendments, and we would like this proposal to become something that is consensual, but I can see that you have unfortunately written this proposal in accordance with your political interests, and, of course, in this form, we cannot be supported. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-02-16-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent representative. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-02-16-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that many of my fellow opposition Members have already explained the reason why this mandate bill cannot be voted on. [[12.50]] I do not want to repeat those reasons, and even strive to present the reasons for a slightly different aspect, which say to a responsible politician that this mandate cannot be supported. The T/14800. The Parliament is discussing the legislative proposal No 70, in which it requests the approval of the government's government decrees since 3 November 2020 for the control of the coronal virus epidemic. The number of these regulations is alarming, but when we look at the reasons for them individually, there is a terrible picture: hasty, inconsiderate, terrible damage. It can be seen that there is no real professional, scientific justification for the measures. I think that the Prime Minister himself does not understand the meaning of most of these, and it can be seen that these are largely not professional, but political decisions, and that politicians defend themselves even at the cost of making a multitude of people runaway. What the representatives of the governing parties have said in this House today as an excuse is not only demagogy, but also a specific disregard for society. They speak of right and left, while the governing parties do not pursue any right-wing policy on this issue, they do not protect the existential security of people. A real right-wing politician seeks to maintain and even strengthen the existential security of citizens. Just because the opposition is left-wing doesn't mean the pro-government will be right-wing. It is not a question of sides how to protect people's health. The whole epidemic is a series of lies, lying in the morning, noon, evening, and the biggest problem is that they lie not only to the people, but often to themselves. I'd like to show a little bit of the ability of a major expert, the Rector of SOTE, to make a statement the other day about the current epidemic situation. Béla Merkely said the other day that half of the population could be infected. You don't just happen to say there's a lot of people going through this virus without any health damage, no illness. That's why the kids go to school until eighth grade, and, well, well, the kids don't infect each other. It's a very special feature of this virus. And if it is true that half the population is already infected, this means that only 5 percent of those infected will get sick at most. Then why does the whole country have to be locked up? The capacity of the healthcare system needs to be maintained for healing, the health care system needs to be strengthened, money needs to be made, and the money is being made in the form of taxes by companies that are currently unable to function because of excessive measures against the epidemic. Let's look at the capacity of the healthcare system. On average, 2 million 300 thousand people are released from bed sickness in hospitals a year, of course the deceased are involved in this. Approximately 330,000 people are dismissed from one day's hospital care every year, i.e. health care has a capacity of 2 million 600,000 people per year for hospital-bound inpatient care. In addition, the average number of days a patient has spent in the hospital is eight, i.e. 18 million 400 thousand sickbeds in Hungary a year, which means that the health care system has ample capacity for the potential number of patients associated with this epidemic. There was no need to evacuate 26,000 beds, not even a fraction was filled up, and based on the behavior of the virus, after having 11 months of experience, if all persons in Hungary are infected, they will not be sick with more than 500,000 people who need healthcare. According to previous experience, 10 percent of the sick were necessarily hospitalized, i.e. the government did not have to expect more than 50,000 people in the span of 11 months if all Hungarians were infected. I would like to call for further reasons to present the provisions of the Health Act. The preamble says that the National Assembly will pass the law in the light of the responsibility for the health of the population. He writes: "The belief that the individual's interest and well-being in health must take precedence, and that the results of the development of medicine must be used for the benefit of present and future generations;. Health is a fundamental condition of the individual's quality of life and self-realization, which has a decisive impact on family, work and hence on the whole nation;., having regard to the fact that the development, preservation and restoration of health is only able to serve the health system in conjunction with the social care system and the protection of the natural and built environment, and with the social and economic environment, as well as in addition to social health-supporting practices and policies. So what does the health bill say? That maintaining and maintaining health is not, in itself, a health issue, but that all actors in society and the economy should be involved in ensuring that it is effective. I would like to point out that with these regulations, the government has paralysed part of this socio-economic environment, which requires its activities to maintain the health of people, which in itself depends not only on a virus, but also on the general health and psychic state of people. Taking into account changes in scientific, technical, ethical and social matters as well as in the legal system, as well as our international obligations, the law defines a complex set of conditions for maintaining and improving health status. So the health law itself recognises that the system is complex, cannot be highlighted from it, and the purpose of the law can only be achieved if it operates in this coherent system. If we start only from the preamble to the Health Act, the defence system was already defective, because it could not meet these conditions. There is a part of the Health Act that sets out the objectives, in which it highlights equal opportunities in point (b) and in point (c) so that the patient can maintain his or her human dignity. Then there is a (3) paragraph of the law, which says that it has the right to acquire knowledge of the patient, which allows him to understand the possibilities of protecting his health, improving his health, and making informed decisions about his health. And I'm gonna stop here for a few thoughts. I'm telling you, I don't vote for this mandate because there are crimes of government that I can't forgive. One of these is a great sin: the dead people alone, without their families, without their loved ones, lost their lives in exile since March, in whose organization this virus was present. It's a sin that can't be forgiven. Tens of thousands of protective suits came into the country for a lot of money. If only half of the ventilators had been taken, but it was not needed, and it would have been spent on protective clothing, it would have been possible for each very serious patient to have a family member there, since it could have been equipped with protective clothing, and it would not have endangered the protection against the epidemic in any way. Health workers over the age of 60 have been sent home, saying that they are at a vulnerable age with regard to the virus, and the already extremely low number of service personnel have become even fewer. Even the former staff have not been able to provide patients with a quality that, I stress, is not about medication and infusions and not about visits, but about hygiene, intake of healthy food, and so far the staff have not been able to care for the sick, and with fewer auxiliary staff left in hospitals, and family members who, in other cases, have been able to help vulnerable patients, patients who are in serious condition or dying, have not been present, so 100 percent of these people have left their lives on earth under conditions that are a XXI. It is not possible in a modern country of the century. I cannot forgive this sin, it should have been a matter of organisation, and it should have been driven specifically by dignity and fairness. What the health government has done here with this question is just awful. And then there's the other half of the same question: this is the failure to treat people with other types of diseases. [[13.00]] Each representative receives letters by mass that he hasn't been answering his phone in ophthalmology, dermatology, various medical offices, general medical offices for months, waiting 6-7 months for appointments to diagnose their otherwise long-standing diseases or continue their care. Well, don't tell me that as a medical worker, there's no doctor, a nurse's responsibility is to leave those we've had to treat now in God's holy name, and we still don't know when we're going to continue establishing their diagnosis or treating their illness. Do you know how many people in the future will die because they weren't provided at this time? All health workers who have fought and pursued an amazing heroic struggle for our sick countrymen have great respect for them, and I bend to the ground, but unfortunately, there are a number of people in the healthcare system who have taken advantage of the fear - inspiring talents of this epidemic, they have lived by not having to meet the patient, they have lived by their inability to defend themselves properly, and there are many people left in the country unsatisfactioned. It is most likely that, once I know that each Member receives these letters with a fidesz mass, we can believe that to society. For the record, I'm a lawyer by profession, and thanks to the pro-government press, I have to go to court because of my personality lawsuits, and the judge even does that, taking advantage of the possibility of an epidemic, so that society doesn't see what he's doing in the courtroom, on the grounds that he's afraid of the virus, shuts out the public, even though it's in OBH's regulations that we have to register, and if we can keep the distance of two meters, the masking and the decontaminated hand, then we can't exclude the public from the negotiations. The Health Act states that public health activities include the definition of scientifically sound health conditions and methods based on adequate evidence and the establishment and operation of the necessary institutional system. So what does the Health Act require? Scientific basis, evidence-based assurance and definition of the necessary supply system tasks. What's 11 months in Hungary compared to this? They talk all over the place, every professional who says the same thing, the population is insecure, and they create a huge mistrust. And now I would like to reply to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, who has just gone out to lunch, that when he said that the willingness to inoculate is increasing, not the willingness to inoculate is increasing, but the feeling of fear. That, please, is not the same, because the entire communication of the government with this epidemic is that it generates even more the fear that already exists in society, and it increases it even more, and people are no longer longing for vaccination, but desire not to get sick, and today the government is trying to guarantee one thing to get vaccinated. Because what do people see? That the lack of money and neglect of the previous ten years created uncertainty in the healthcare system, and that there was a very serious risk that they could not prevent or cure any disease caused by a coronal virus epidemic. Here I would like to say a few words to my fellow Member, István Hollik, and I will press a button in the next 15 minutes to ensure that no one dies in a coronal virus. The coronal virus is a virus that can enter the body and cause disease in the body under certain conditions, and as a result of the disease, if the patient's health, body or individual conditions bring him to such a dangerous condition, he or she may die. The coronal virus hasn't killed anyone yet, its consequences can be killed, unfortunately. The public must always be informed of the public health situation, the problems encountered, the drivers, the expected consequences and the possibilities for a solution in the Health Act. What's been going on in the last 11 months hasn't been information, it's just chatter. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-02-16-62	Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-63	It is not elegant to say such a thing, but Congressman Nacsa does it every time, so I am sorry that I cannot answer him personally, but I would like to say that he is misunderstanding in a number of ways. On the one hand, he says that this authorisation law is needed for a more effective defense. What we're questioning is that this defense you've been doing over the last few months would have been effective. On the other hand, this is the name of the MEPs, including the Dobrev Klárán, and it is time to learn and arrive at the 21st century. By the 20th century, KDNP, women have their own names, not only can they be called by their husbands' names, so I would like to say that I like to be wrong when it comes to the MEPs, Mr Nacsa, because the fact is that it was the government that took part in the joint agreement on the European agreement, and it is the representatives of the government who are still sitting in the coordination committee on the common European vaccine procurement. Maybe talk to the government for KDNP representatives and ask them why this thing isn't going well. Otherwise, we can be grateful that there is such a common European acquisition of vaccines, because otherwise there would be only Chinese and Russian vaccines in Hungary, as we see the government's activities. And we didn't pick on some vaccines, so don't make a misunderstanding. We say that vaccines that have undergone a rigorous investigation by the European Medicines Agency should be vaccinated in Hungary. It is not our fault, nor should we be angry with the European Medicines Agency; the Russian vaccine is still not submitted for examination; there is no such intention in the case of the Chinese vaccine. Submit it, the European Medicines Agency will examine it, and if they are safe, they will be authorised. Finally, as regards the guarantees for parliamentary scrutiny, you adopted yesterday a working order for Parliament that has now turned the two-week session back to three weeks, so every three weeks the opposition is denied even the possibility of asking questions with this working order. Thank you.
u2021-02-16-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What my fellow Member Nacsa said moved me to ask for a two-minute opportunity to comment, as he said that he did not want to learn from us, either in relation to crisis management or in relation to solving the problem of foreign exchange credentialers. There will be a time for this today when we will discuss this at the Mansion, as well as in the Curia's report, but believe me, my fellow Member Nacsa, I am sure that somewhere he is watching this broadcast, there is something to learn. It was your government, the Orbán government, that signed an agreement with the financial world in 2015, in which the Orbán government undertook not to impose any obstacles to the eviction of Hungarian families. Orbán's government is so slavish that even in the pandemic situation, even in the crisis, it has not set any obstacles. The fact that there's an eviction moratorium is because of one thing, because it's cold. It's not customary in winter, and it's legit, they don't evict anyone in winter, but that's the way it is every winter. The people who are waiting for this situation, the end of the emergency, there are many people who do not expect this because they will be evicted, Mr. Secretary, because we have asked a thousand times not only for the credit moratorium, but not only for the moratorium on repayment, but also for the executioner to stop. The executor hasn't stopped. The executor's working, the auctioneer's out, the auctioneer's in, the new owner's in, and as soon as you eliminate the emergency, thousands of people will lose their homes again. This was the case last year, and it will be next year, and as long as you are in government, it will be because you are not on the side of families, you are on the side of banks. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-02-16-66	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, It's really not elegant, and I rarely mention how many of us are here at the National Assembly. Right now, there are two pro-government representatives in the horseshoe. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Speakers may be inside!]] At the same time, I do not find it elegant to cast such powerful sentences, say, on the opposition side, now I am thinking of Congressman Nacsa, at least it is appropriate to wait for them in person. But I hope that he will come back soon, and I will answer him in the normal speech. However, I would like to respond briefly to what Congressman Mesterházy has said. I very much agree with your thoughts when you said that we should never forget that we are not virology professionals, and I myself am holding onto this, and I accept that. [[13.10]] I never give an opinion on such matters, but I also draw attention to what I have already said today, and on several occasions that it is extremely irresponsible and serious behaviour, when there is a very prestigious and asked virologist professor, Ferenc Jakab, head of the research centre in Pécs, that a pro-government politician, an influential secretary of state, undersecretary of state, accuses him of his words, and then makes a statement on 2 October, before the tragic, shockingly serious second wave, that the numbers have stabilized. I think that in such a situation, when such a serious mistake is made by a State Secretary, the same person should be followed in public by a professional who has been accused of being alarmed, should be apologized to the public for making such a serious, irresponsible and unfounded statement, and should be corrected, and should then learn from the fact that such irresponsible statements should not be made. It should also be said that basically the government has the information that allows decisions to be made. So if there is uncertainty or debate in society, it can be traced back to this, if the government, let us say, often does not give adequate information, often even to the question of a Member of Parliament. In this respect, this strengthens mistrust in this situation, when we say that vaccination is indeed extremely important, and that only by achieving sufficient levels of grafting can this terrible epidemic be stopped, but I call again on the government's increased responsibility on this issue. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-02-16-68	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members who have indicated their intention to speak in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2021-02-16-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also respond partially to the very dynamic attacks that my colleague Nacsa has made here. On the one hand, I would like to ask you that since the Chinese vaccine has arrived, it would be good if you would report in a Facebook post about when you injected yourself with the Chinese vaccine. [[Dr. Pál Völner: There will be a turn for it.]] He also encourages his family to do so, for he constantly accuses us of tuning public opinion against something that is, of course, not true. I simply think opposition representatives are more cautious on the basis of common sense rules. We simply say that we use the vaccines that have been approved by the various authorities in Hungary and in the European Union, which have been authorised to do so. I don't think any of this is what my colleague Nacha said? there is no selection of vaccines, we simply think that in such a situation, the position of the professional authorities should be trusted. There are two such authorities: one is European and the other is, of course, the Hungarian authority. And it is true that a number of political, pro-government opinions have been expressed or made, which shows that they have tried, at least in an implicit manner, to pressure the Hungarian authority to issue the authorisation for these vaccines as quickly as possible. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's not true!]] I can't even read what you're saying from your mouth, because you're wearing a mask, thank God, but if you press a button, and you finally take part in the debate, and you're not going to end up trying to tell us your point of view, when we can't respond to it, we'd be honored to have you come down and argue with our arguments, and give us the opportunity to do the same with your thoughts. So, in Hungarian, there is no question, there is simply more careful action by opposition representatives, and you are probably more concerned with economic aspects than with health aspects, and that is why the authorities may be involved in making decisions as quickly as possible. We say nothing but to wait for the two authorities that can really make an informed decision in this regard, and once again, the Hungarian and the European Union authorities. Then we are constantly accused of being anti-vaccinations, for example, the last time Ferenc Gyurcsány was accused of this. I was sitting here in Parliament yesterday, when the former Prime Minister began his comment to get everyone vaccinated. To add, I do not know of any opposition representative who would have said the opposite. Everyone always argues, of course, that the more people inoculate themselves, the more safely we can put an end to this epidemic situation, and I therefore reject these accusations. I understand the party's political intentions, here in Hungary you are the only ones who want to solve this virus situation; in fact, we are slowly reaching out to the opposition that generated this whole virus situation and that we are generating this epidemic. But I would like to reject it once again, not at all, and we all argue that as many people as possible should be vaccinated, and of course we argue that the vaccine should be voluntary and optional, and that the government should do everything in its power to really choose between Hungarian families and the Hungarian people from among the vaccines. I actually disagree, and I'm sure Secretary of State will answer that. If the government is so committed to buying the vaccine, I disagree why the Hungarian government has not bought all the quotas due to Hungary from the vaccines offered by the European Union. So the way I look at it, about half of it was ordered and tied down by the Hungarian government. What I don't understand is why they didn't tie down the full scale then, because everyone who knows how to do this is saying that this vaccine is likely to be such that people will have to be vaccinated again, not just once, but a booster shot is required, that in a year, two years from now, the experts are still arguing about this, because perhaps the earliest vaccination was nine months ago, so you don't know how long such a vaccine will give protection exactly. So in Hungarian, common sense would dictate that the Hungarian government will use all the vaccines available to us from all EU vaccines, since later, who, say, were vaccinated with Pfizer or Moderna or AstraZeneca, will have to be vaccinated later. Would it be much easier if I just said these vaccines? It should be taken off the shelf, like reclaiming these and buying again. So, with the same power and even less power, these Western Europeans should be driven by this Russian and Chinese vaccine, as they are available to Hungary on the basis of quota, on the basis of population numbers, once again, at least twice as much as the Hungarian government has already committed. The other thing that my fellow Member Nacsa said is that the problem is that there are too few ventilators, and once that is too much. No! It's not just these two numbers, so it's not like the light switch, it's either the light or the light isn't on. Indeed, we believe that there was too little at the beginning, as the government acknowledged that there was not enough ventilator available. Quite rightly, however, the government launched an offensive for the acquisition of a ventilator, and I supported this at the time, that it was right to use every channel, every means to secure the required number, only when preparing for the worst scenario, with a maximum of 8 thousand people the modeling at that time, that there could be so many people in the worst case on a ventilator, compared to this, you obtained a multiple of this, at 10, 20 and 30 times the price. In Hungarian, there was another one on the other side of the horse, so the opposition criticism is absolutely justified that at the beginning there was not enough, and at the end too much, and apparently now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is actually organising an auction or a sale of these ventilators. They don't really buy these machines yet, so it's probably gonna stay in stock, and I'm gonna say it again, I'm glad that you can stay in stock, and as few people as possible need it. The other thing is that yesterday the Prime Minister said the two numbers, and Lőrinc Nacsa is also silent about it, that about 450,000 people's jobs were saved from 80 billion forints. If we calculate this well, this means that about 170 to 180 thousand forints were spent per person during this period, not monthly, but overall, and we said that this is not enough, that much more should have been spent on these purposes, so much more money should be left over than people. It is right and good not to pay taxes or contributions to entrepreneurs, but the problem is that they cannot pay less out of nothing. That is why it would be worth it, and this is what the opposition is saying, that it would be worth giving entrepreneurs concretely, quickly, money in a tangible way. In several countries abroad, in Italy, Austria, what they do is, let's say, 70-80 percent of 2018's turnover is simply transferred to the host or to the given tourism company, because they are trying to help the company in question not to destroy or lose its employees. [[13.20]] After all, if they can't pay the salaries for any more months, it doesn't matter how much they've released from their taxes or their rent to the company in question. So we say that, yes, the government has given little again here, did little for the benefit of Hungarian workers, while, from the other side, it clearly used this regulation for party policy purposes, because apparently they have taken measures that could benefit your favourite entrepreneurs behind this screen. We used to talk about Lurch Mészáros many times, and I think we will, too, in today's debate, it is quite clear that those who were close to you received much greater, much more help. And many people say that this delay in the tourism and catering industry, and it describes you, is nothing but that I would like to rearrange the market. I would like to get access to hotels that operate well and normally, well and profitably, and they want to wait until the price of such hotels is significantly reduced due to restrictions, lack of guests and lack of income, and then they want to buy this much cheaper, so that there are profit interests behind it. I don't know if that's true, but I'm sure on the outside that's how you can interpret the delay that you're applying in this area or in these areas, because you can make a decision in 24 hours that may change the marginal conditions or operating conditions of an entire economic sector, and you've been arguing here for weeks and months with opposition representatives about what you've done and why you haven't done to this sector. So in closing, I would like to draw your attention to doing their job, but not in the way that they have done in the last 90 days. I think that the criticisms of opposition are correct, and you have indeed received a trust, although you do not need it, because you have two thirds, but you did receive a political trust from the opposition three months ago in order to put in place regulations that would correct these issues, if I may say so, but that is not what this political consensus was used for. And yes, it is important in politics that a decision is taken unanimously by the Hungarian Parliament, by consensus, or along the usual party political breakage lines. This may have been an example of a cooperation, cooperation between the opposition and the ruling parties, but in my personal opinion, you have abused this mandate and abused this trust. Therefore, as I have said before, I will certainly not support this mandate, since they do not deserve to receive this trust from the opposition again. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2021-02-16-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, independent. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-02-16-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As an anti-closure party, the Hungarian Movement does not support the maintenance of restrictions in the National Assembly either, since they are considered unreasonable, in several cases inconsistent and even in some cases counterproductive. We have started collecting signatures against all of these on our website, and can be connected to this on the mihazank.hu/lezarasellen link. The fact that shops close at 19:00 because of the curfew clearly means that during the afternoon hours, typically after hours, there is a huge crowd in food shops between 5:30 and 5:30, the government should have noticed this, and should have responded to this. This has not been done, thus contributing to the faster spread of the virus by creating such congestion because of this unreasonable measure. That is why we consider the curfew unnecessary, and we recommend that the opening hours of the shops be extended. Even though we've been talking about this with several civilians for almost a month and a half, there hasn't been any change in the closures. This is a virtue for the government to insist on previous closures, but the number of diseases is not the same as in November. It is not reasonable for the government to apply the same restrictive measures in the case of 6000-6200 diseases per day as when, for example, there were only 400 newly infected patients. It is also completely incomprehensible and counterproductive that casinos, malls, typically multinational companies, such as furniture stores or electronics shops, may be open. It is a very minimal restriction that we have to live with, it is typically multi-business, but in the catering industry, catering places, which are usually Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, cannot open with any restrictive measures. It is quite clear that most of these are either ruined or will be ruined in the coming months, since they had to be closed for about four months last year; they will not be able to sustain this situation. At the same time, there would not necessarily be more people in a catering establishment than in the aforementioned malls or in an average food store during this very busy period, so even a partial opening would not endanger the spread of the epidemic. Moreover, these catering establishments have their capacity in their operating licenses, so the government could also initiate the opening of these catering facilities in a certain proportion, up to 25-30 percent of this capacity. But that doesn't even happen. Nor can they open here in masks, with adequate distance, with adequate ventilation, when the means for disinfection are available, while we see in everyday life that there is enormous congestion in other stores, also not necessary for everyday life. It is also incomprehensible that the wage subsidies were received only in February, even for the month of November, if at all. This also shows the government's insensitiveness and the fact that the personal stories that this profession was trying to convey did not affect the decision-makers, and their indignation and protests did not result until the house was fully burned. In addition, it should be borne in mind that wage subsidies are limited, and there are a lot of catering units, small businesses, who will not have enough to survive, since they usually have other costs, especially the rent that affects them for this period when they have to be fully closed. Unfortunately, I also know of entrepreneurs who rent their business space from a Fidesz-led municipality; they have repeatedly initiated discussions with the local government leaders, but neither the mayor nor the tenure department of the local government has praised them for their response, which is quite outrageous. The fact that the municipality rents their business premises and doesn't speak to them is also a legal absurdity that the landlord and the tenant can't get in touch with each other, but it is obviously humanly and morally outrageous that, in such a situation, a Fidesz municipality doesn't talk to its own tenants. The closure of zoos and wildlife parks is also incomprehensible. Obviously, it is absurd not to walk in an outdoor zoo or wildlife park surrounded by a fence, until people can move freely on the other side of the fence and walk or do anything in public areas while they cannot enter. It also weakens protection by the extraordinary limitation of sports opportunities; what would otherwise be needed in an epidemic situation much more than in an epidemic-free period would be necessary to increase sports opportunities, but they also chose the counterproductive way. The fact that swimming pools, thermal baths and gyms must also be closed and not open with any restrictions also leads to the extremely difficult situation of these institutional operators, those working there, and on the other hand, to the public. [[13.30]] By the way, in the neighbouring Slovenia, they solved this and opened the swimming pools there. According to the Hungarian Movement, Hungary should also take action in this regard. Physical education classes in schools also weaken protection, children need much more immune strength, and there are schools where physical education classes have not been held for almost a year. According to the Ministry's opinion, this can only be done in the open, or it can be used to a limited extent in indoor gymnasiums, but it is also counterproductive. These are children who are sitting in a closed space with each other all day anyway, there would be no problem, and it would even strengthen their immune system if these physical education classes could be maintained on a regular schedule. But the fact that the curfew also completely prohibits outdoor sports after 8:00 p.m. is also counterproductive. That after 8:00 p.m., you can't walk, run, ride a bike, or do any outdoor sports activity in your own living environment, it also doesn't strengthen, but weakens your defense. It is quite obvious that such complex restrictions on sports opportunities reduce the strength of the immune system of the entire Hungarian society, so people get sick more easily. These irrationalities, inconsistencies, and counterproductive decisions are constantly drawn to the attention of the Hungarian Movement, and more and more people are on the side of our petition, thank God. I'm asking people to hang in there, so let's continue to fight for closure together. We will not be able to support this proposal in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-02-16-72	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group, who has also expressed his wish to speak in writing. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot going on today. I can't go without saying that everyone's going to be like a virologist, and after everyone asks each other not to be involved in party politics, they're going to be party politics. [[Defiance.]] This is a brief summation of today on this issue. After all, today we have to discuss the bill that has been brought before us, and we can do so on the basis of our experience. We can do it on the basis of how, when this government was given a mandate in November, it used this mandate, and we can even go back until spring to see what results have been made by the measures that the government has taken since then. I don't want to be an amateur virologist here, but I'd rather take examples from the economy. In the spring, you said that there would be a historic economic rescue package that Europe has never seen. Later it turned out that Hungarians couldn't see this either, because they wouldn't see it. Orbán announced, perhaps sometime in March, that the big announcement would come on 6 April. The big announcement was canceled. Viktor Orbán pushed this whole thing away, felt that it would not be so strong. And then we have two of the ITM State Secretarys who have told us what the economy will look like in Hungary in the next period, as we will need austerity, because we will need to prepare for a period where there will be a decline in Hungary rather than growth. I already said that it was very good that we did not find out what these two State Secretarys had said at the Economic Committee meeting, and it is very good that Hungarian voters are not being bullied by you to tell them in an hour or two that we have been listening to there. This government knows exactly what's going to happen here in three or five years, but what's going to happen in three or five months or three or five weeks, they usually don't know. We saw then that they wanted to spend money on the Hungarian economy, they kept us waiting, they kept us waiting, and then we found out who was going to get the money. He received Lőrinc Mészáros; he received 18 billion forints even if he dismissed 850 people. Put your hands on your hearts. Don't you ever wonder if that's the right thing to do? At a time like this, no one will tell the Butcher Lawrence that it's either now or not the time to let this 850 people go, or not now to ask for 18 billion forints, isn't it? Butcher Lawrence could have done that. If another Hungarian entrepreneur who doesn't belong to you dismissed his people, he couldn't have received the state aid. They have promises left. Lőrinc Mészáros had to pay for the Mátra Force this year. And then I'm not gonna go along with who doesn't work for Lőrinc Mészáros, who had to buy the Mátra Power. Did you have to pay for that this year? Doesn't the Butcher have enough money at home to wait for him to get back next year or the next year, if he's a little shaken up, then he's gonna get that 20 billion more? Wouldn't he have come out of the 11 billion he took out of his own companies as dividends? So somehow we always go there, and there's a source of what's important to you. Not for the Hungarians, for you. You are not Hungary. In Hungary, there are innkeepers to whom you promised 50 percent wage support in November, and for two and a half months you sent them a settlement. You know what the innkeepers told me? That they didn't get anything at the store to fill the gap. They couldn't buy from it, and they couldn't pay the caterer, the cook, because they had to pay the rent. You have said that this is a fundamental problem, a fundamental difference from everyone around us who has dealt with the crisis to reduce costs. But if someone doesn't have an income, they can't pay for any reduced costs at any level. It's not that complicated to see. Around us in all countries, we see that the speakers before me have also said that they bought the last year of peace, 2018 when there was no epidemic, but there are already closed numbers about what you have confessed to the tax authority, you can get as much this year, you can make a living from it. And to me, my Austrian acquaintances send them the tax office there, Finanzamt: you are so entitled, we can refer you to this account number, if you have any questions, please indicate here. You didn't send that to anyone. You've reduced the cost. They told a locked-in restaurant that I'd pay 50 percent of the employee's salary if you paid 50 percent of the other one. Well, if it's closed, he doesn't have any income, how would he pay the other 50 percent? What, after a year like this? You didn't think that through. Once again, the system has been stalled, it seems that a year has not been enough to prepare the administration for the implementation of these so-called ideas. In No-vember they promised, in February Minister Gulyás stood from one foot to another and said that, in fact, 20 of those 27 billion remained. But now they've paid for it. It's been November, it's been December, it's been January, it's February. I don't wish for you to hold your breath for three months, but that's what you asked the caterers to do. There's one thing worth clearing up here. They cannot open because they do not need their work, they cannot work because that product is bad, not because they are not needed on the market, but because they had to shut down in accordance with the measures taken to protect health. Because of these rules, they must be compensated and compensated. [[13.40]] You have made rules so that they can't open up, because health needs to be protected. You can say that it's right, but then they have to be compensated, not 50 percent. So, on the one hand, you're making one of the mistakes to cut costs, not make up for the proceeds. On the other hand, where money has been put into the economy, the mistake is that money is not being invested in strategic driving sectors selected on the basis of a specific strategy, where, due to sustainable development, the current decline of 5.1 percent of GDP can be withdrawn in an instant because it can be re-established with those who have remained on their feet, but you have given it to the chosen ones. I was given to those whom the dear leader's finger pointed out, and I say otherwise to those whom the dear leader's finger did not point to, and those who were not given. And there's no more complicated crisis management for you. From HUF 3600 billion, I see my fellow Member Nacsa is shaking his head now offering HUF 100 billion to SMEs to stay on their feet on credit. This is gonna be a loan, isn't it? A hundred billion forints, which can be taken by SMEs every ten million. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not SMEs.]] SMEs, but that's what the Prime Minister said, with a three-year moratorium for ten years. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Micro- and small businesses.]] Micro- and small businesses, let's be precise, that's right. I know Lőrinc Mészáros is neither one of them, but he's getting grants. I do not wish Lőrinc Mészáros to receive only as much money as a Hungarian SME. But I do wish for every Hungarian SME to receive as much money as Lőrinc Mészáros, even if it is not called that, even if I don't know who doesn't. Thus, a fantastic amount of money was poured on poorly selected sectors, and others were left on the side of the road, so it is not expected that the economy will soon bounce back. We heard the Prime Minister say that the decline was less than 5,1-5,2 percent, because the Austrians, the French, the Germans and the Spanish have worse data. Let's ask the Hungarian families, come with me to South Baranya, how they would like to live as badly as these slippery Austrians, like those slipping Germans. Well, let's ask them. Please, where are we going? This should also be seen in relative terms: where the productivity of the economy has been and where it has fallen. And if again only the chosen, the minions, the minions will receive money, then you can see that this will certainly not be a great economic growth, and in any case it will not be sustainable. The last ten years have had a very bad practice. The very bad practice was that the state was always the biggest customer here in Hungary. Obviously, this was the easiest way to direct public money to those who are kind to you, and then they either learned to sign up or didn't learn to sign up, and they became such concrete dreams all over Hungary with a lot of tax forints and a lot of EU money. Now, when the economy is really in trouble, and now is the most important time for the state to be the biggest customer, and now there is no money for it; there is a deficit of 9 percent, there is an 81 percent government debt again, there is a 5.2 percent decline in GDP. What's it gonna be, how are you gonna turn the economy upside down? On credit? Have you often criticized me with EU money? We heard it yesterday, so it wouldn't be in Brussels, and it wouldn't be in Washington. I just don't want this government to have to go to Brussels because no one else is going to give me money. From what will the economy be reviving again, how will the Hungarian economy emerge? That's because they made these three bad decisions. The first wrong decision was to pour money into poorly selected sectors. The second was: they didn't make up for the proceeds, they reduced the costs, and the third was that the state was always the biggest customer, and now, when it was needed, there is no money for it, because it was spent. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-02-16-74	Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2021-02-16-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, All we've said about caterers who are already in a difficult situation is that your political activists don't piss them off. From the campaign team of your mayor in Szombathely, they're organizing a Facebook group that's been pissing off caterers in a difficult situation. It's the left-wing activists associated with you who were behind all this bullying and organizing. All we're asking is that they don't get teased. We know you're in a difficult situation, so the government is helping you. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] That is why he is now paying the wage support in advance, because he has listened to those demands to speed it up. It was a legitimate demand, it accelerated it, and therefore not only accelerated it, but now it pays wage subsidies in advance. (Intercoms from opposition benches. ) On the basis of which support could be obtained, Mr Szakács also referred to this in his large speech, on the basis of one aspect, someone could receive support to preserve jobs. (Intercoms from opposition benches. ) This was the only aspect of preserving jobs. They did not look at what kind of activity he was engaged in, the primary consideration was not the fact that last year or the year before you referred to his turnover, but to preserve those jobs, because, as the Prime Minister said, if there is work, there is everything. It helps micro and small enterprises to re-launch loans, not medium-sized enterprises, micro and small enterprises. In principle, you always speak up for small businesses, then support this form. It doesn't have to be repaid for three years, it's got a moratorium, it's free of interest, and it's helping micro and small businesses, the smallest companies in the worst trouble. [[Crying from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] I appreciate your speech and your incendiary speech, and I hope that you said something similar to Deputy Mayor Kata Tüttő at the MSZP faction meeting, let's say in the case of the Chain Bridge, why he decides at a Christmas party how much the advance is, how much the penalty is, and how much they overcharge the renovation of the Chain Bridge. Or at the MSZP faction meeting, why doesn't he talk about why the criminal with Csaba Czeglédy now makes the many local government contracts worth HUF 150 million, so that he, a criminal, can serve his legal representation? Tell me why they don't speak up at the MSZP factions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-76	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go, two minutes.
u2021-02-16-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We'll send you a reminder of the factions of the MSZP, we won't send you an invitation to what we're discussing there. In fact, the situation is the following: Lőrinc Mészáros received 18 billion forints in addition to the government's outstanding friendship and attention when he dismissed 850 people, my honourable fellow Member. [[Noise.]] He received 18 billion forints from the Kisfaludy program, and at the same time he dismissed 850 people, making these people's lives hell, because they should have been looking for work when the plague raged the most. A loan of HUF 10 million to micro and small enterprises, yes. I'm sure that companies also like subsidised loans, and the only thing they like more than that is non-refundable grants. Why is that only for the Butcher? Why can these micro and small enterprises not receive grants? You're talking about 100 billion forints. It has already gone to the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, to the MotoGP track, to the Mátra Power Plant, which was also not to be paid for by Mészáros. Couldn't you have done that when they were on watch? Only six months later, a year later? I'm sure they could have waited, these micro- and small businesses couldn't wait, and you're not offering them any non-refundable money right now, you're just offering it to your friends, your buddies and the Butcher. [[What about the Chain Bridge?]] They're offering you credit and slogans. That's what you're offering, slogans and credit, and you're probably not gonna ask for any of this. Thank you for the floor.
u2021-02-16-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member, two minutes, LMP Group.
u2021-02-16-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Nacha is back. I would like to ask you briefly about your recent statement. You said you gave us the support to keep jobs. It has been said several times in today's debate that Mészáros received nearly 18 billion dollars in support of his hotel chain by firing more than 800 people. My question, Congressman Nacsa: do you feel that the hotel chain of Lőrinc Mészáros needed that support? According to the performance of the previous year, Lőrinc Mészáros collected a huge dividend of this magnitude from his construction companies in person. [[13.50]] These construction companies have won thousands of billions of public procurement. So he takes the dividend out of this company and spends it, let's say, for private purposes, but his hotel chain received HUF 18 billion of state aid from Hungarian taxpayers in the event of such a serious economic crisis. You are constantly talking about creating a national capitalist layer. Where are the national capitalists? And why saving national capital or saving their profitable year is the primary task for you, even in the event of such a serious economic crisis. You can see that from their construction companies you could have helped your own chain of hotels, yet you were paid with the taxpayers, and yet Mészáros, the Mészáros hotel chain, has laid off a lot of people. Is that all right with you, Congressman Nacha? Did Lőrinc Mészáros' company empire need the support of Hungarian taxpayers in this situation? I have one more question. Prime Minister said something interesting yesterday when we brought up support for the Ripper empire. He said the Red Barons were also supported. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] How does this work in your system? Do you have a database to give a little here, a little bit to the red baron? Who are the Red Barons, Congressman Nacha? And why does the Hungarian government give support to so-called Red Barons? Why do you support the Ripper in such a serious epidemic, and why do you support the Red Barons? And how it works that this way, the Parliament and the Hungarian public will tell the Prime Minister that the Red Barons. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What database do you have on the Red Barons? Thank you.
u2021-02-16-80	Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-81	Mr President, Dear House, Let me make an important addition to what Mr. Group Leader said. The Ripper Group received an extremely large development aid by sending half of its employees. Where is the job protection, Congressman? You support job cuts, support the group of companies with the renovation money, which then sends the workers on the basis of renovation. Now, that's how you protect your employees, and by the way, you protect your jobs. And I am glad that Congressman is back with us, because this part of his comments I didn't just tell you because it's a matter of telling you face-to-face. Mr. Congressman, you lie in a straightforward way when you claim that either the Democratic Coalition or the opposition as a whole is anti-vaccination! Honourable Congressman, Yesterday, you heard from the President of the Democratic Coalition that we're encouraging everyone to take a shot. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] But we also demand that everyone can choose a safe vaccine, choose what vaccine they trust to accept that vaccine they are bringing in for a very large amount of money, but that which does not have an EU accreditation, has not examined, has not been accepted by the European Union or has not been accepted by the European Union. It's a very simple question. As an amendment to this Act, we will present our previous proposal which would guarantee all Hungarian citizens that they can choose between vaccines and that they will not be put at a disadvantage. I wonder how they will vote on Thursday in the Legislative Committee and how they will vote on this proposal here in Parliament. Then we'll find out who's using the vaccine for political purposes. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Medicine...]] Because the fact is, my fellow Member, that you are mistaken in the fact that the adoption of vaccination is increasing. I'm afraid that's not true. At least believe the KSH if you don't believe us. In a month, the confidence in vaccination has been reduced by 2 percent, thanks to your confusing communication. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-82	Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Listening to the Minister of State's Expo and the representatives' speeches, I had the feeling that government representatives had said that everything was the left, everything was the opposition's fault, and that we were to blame for everything, and that it was almost even said that the opposition was already to blame for the spread of the virus. I will make it clear in advance, and it cannot be said enough: we are doing it with all our means, and in all our communications we confirm that there is only one solution to the epidemic: if as many people are vaccinated as soon as possible. And we ask ourselves to continue to accuse us of whether the opposition side is rooting for the epidemic or saying that we are anti-vaccination, and the government side is communicating that we encourage voters not to be vaccinated. I think that this is a responsible attitude because of the fact that opposition representatives speak in each of their speeches that we are seeking security in relation to vaccines. But then let me talk about something that hasn't been said before. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said many times yesterday that most of all it is the epidemiological experts that should be heard and that their opinions should be taken into account in most cases. Allow me here, if the Prime Minister doesn't have the last word. Because we have known this since last week that if a decision is made on a dispute, then the Prime Minister's word is the right thing to do. But while we're talking about CDC management, it should be mentioned that it was precisely this government who, in 2011, virtually completely destroyed the well-functioning CDC, the SAO itself. There were times when the epidemic management itself worked only at the Deputy State Secretary level, and in 2018 we reached the point of establishing the National Centre for Public Health in Hungary. But here I have to mention, I told you yesterday that there were a few months in 2018, when the head of this centre was replaced five times, and then only on 1 December 2018 did Müller Cecília Chief Medical Officer take office. Then it is no wonder that after the destruction of such a well-functioning institute, it was difficult enough to start in Hungary or to say that the management of the epidemic is still not fully functioning. I also ask ourselves when we ask a question, and I personally ask it yesterday, and Secretary of State Bence Rétvári dares to say that we are constantly attacking doctors, health workers and epidemiological experts. No! We have said it every single time, and I tell you now that we owe all our respect to these people, to health workers, to doctors, and no matter what sector of health workers we are talking about, I can also say that we must protect it by all means, and that all help must be given to these workers and to epidemiological experts. But in many cases in recent times, we have also had to give criticism, as the government has handled this epidemic, and the way it has dealt with health workers. Unfortunately, in December, I had my own experience of the vulnerable situation of health care workers today, and even if we talk about general practitioners, whether we talk about hospital workers, health workers and patients themselves. And you have been able to increase this vulnerability almost completely. My colleague Andrea Varga-Damm talked about the extra burden on hospital staff, nurses, nurses, surgeons, doctors, because there is no way for relatives to go to the hospital because of the epidemic. We can say that, yes, we protect the patients, we protect the relatives, the Hungarian population, but you have not thought about how much extra burden the relatives themselves have taken off health care workers in recent years just because they have visited the patients inside, and they have taken a lot of work off the shoulders of health workers that we are now facing, that they are now missing from the system. And there's no extra support for these health workers that they're going to have to do these extra jobs now. The kind of vulnerability and confusion that is now in health institutions and hospitals, allow me to say that it is completely invaluable. [[14.00]] It's just a personal experience: I had to go back to the hospital for a checkup last week and we're talking about a Covid hospital. Well, that's perfectly fine, everyone knows him, if only because he saw him on the news, or in person, because he needed hospitalization. Pavilions, containers are placed where they measure the temperature of the patients and their relatives, and the employees there decide that the relative at least goes in with the patient, we get these little notes that now the patient and his relative enter the building, and then they check before entering the building in the same way that you are rightfully going in, and the system is fully operational. You'll meet the soldiers, and someday you'll have health care. I managed to get to the hospital after four hours because I was working, and we arrived after 4:15. To my surprise, the dog didn't care if I went to the hospital. There was no doctor in the container, there were no staff at the container who would have measured my temperature, even asked me why I came, why my husband accompanied me. It was locked up, we entered the building like there was no epidemic. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, and this is not the responsibility of those who work there, and I am not emphasizing those who work there, I am not attacking those who work there, because I have talked to them a lot while I was in the hospital, that they are inaccessible and untraceable on a daily basis, as they receive orders and instructions. There is no one today who knows why such decisions or decisions are made from one moment to the next, and I add that most decisions are not made by health workers. Once again, I would like to point out that the vulnerability of health workers, of relatives and of patients, is terrible, and then don't be surprised that you come here and tell us these experiences. I can only join, I say, with my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm, in how vulnerable a patient can become when in such a situation he goes to the hospital and can be deprived of his most basic human dignity in such a situation. Returning once again to the destruction of the SAO, you know that after 2010, thousands of SAO employees were dismissed as the first step when the system was destroyed. Let us not be surprised that we are standing here at the beginning of 2020-21 and say that there are very large deficiencies in the management of epidemics. In the last few hours, there has been no mention of a very important issue: the children will graduate again this year. The government's been quiet for weeks. At the beginning of the year, it was said that the government is thinking that I would quote the vaccination plan to consider that these students are talking about nearly 70,000 students, and they are trying to deal with this situation. It's just, I suppose, after that, they realized that not only these students should be taken forward in the vaccination plan, but also teachers and workers who keep the institution in order. It's been quiet ever since. They also know that if we are to achieve adequate protection, we should start vaccination of students and teachers already at the beginning of March. But to do so, I see that there is no chance, since we can see how little vaccine is available and there is not enough vaccine. But it's very important that we calm these students as soon as possible. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] It was bad last year, but thanks to God, the students were able to graduate. But now these kids, this age group that's about to graduate, they've been teaching online for a year, they've been at home for a year, so to speak, and they've been studying like this for a year. I'm willing to risk it, and that's what the profession thinks, that these kids can't prepare for graduation in the same way, because there are some places where online education works very well, some where it only works partially and some where it doesn't work at all. We have not heard of this, I hope, in a few sentences, that the Secretary of State will also reply. My colleague Lőrinc Nacsa said a sentence in his two-minute speech, quoting Prime Minister Viktor Orbán that if there is work, everything is there. No, Congressman, just because there's work doesn't mean everything. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] If the employee is paid properly, paid fairly, then there is everything. Just because there's work doesn't mean it's enough. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What was your minimum wage?]] To do that, you have to pay the employees fairly, and if there's a problem, you have to give them help. I also don't see that the honourable government representatives are going to talk about having a plan that, after the epidemic is over, they've done some kind of study, that there's going to be a waiting list for health and health workers who are completely eviscerated. We've read on the news, we've seen from the published data that there's been a drastic increase in the number of waiting lists from week to week, the number of interventions that have been cancelled in the last year. You will also look at the impact, I will ask, Mr Secretary of State, of the impact that it will have on medical visits that have been delayed for years, screenings that have not been completed, or treatments that have not been completed, because we know very well that if they do not, these diseases will become more and more serious, and if they are not treated in time, or if we can get to the point where the citizen becomes irretrievable. I have to point out here that a program for the transformation of health care was made in summer, for which we paid more than HUF 325 million, and then when we asked what we wanted to see what recommendations this company made for the transformation of health care, because we believe that this concerns all Hungarian citizens, this material was quickly encrypted. We would like to know that you will be the independent Ministry of Health, because if we ask the Hungarian people, the most important topic and the most pressing problem is the situation of Hungarian health in Hungary. Will we get to the point where it will be important for the government to create an independent ministry and appoint a competent minister? Because in recent times we have seen that the number of ministers responsible for the health care system has been almost untraceable: Péter Szijjártó, Sándor Pintér, Minister Palkovics, Minister Kásler has been examining bones in recent years. I think that we are asking very, very serious questions about the epidemic situation with my fellow Members, and in most cases we do not get answers to these questions, or if they are trying to answer, an attack is coming, and the answer is that we are rooting for the virus, rooting for the epidemic situation, and we are anti-vaccination. We are not rooting for the epidemic, we would very much like it now, and I think that we can slowly say that in Hungary, 100% of all people want their old lives back. Everyone in Hungary knows that, and this is what we represent, that the solution to the epidemic situation may be that we get the correct vaccination. But I would like to emphasise that we should be able to support the government's efforts to start vaccinations with a safe and tested vaccine. Believe me, over the past few years, everything has been done from the government side, and they have done everything in their power to dissuade Hungarians from vaccination. All means have been used in this matter. To tell you the truth, everyone has said that there are no CDC experts in this Parliament. Then why don't you let the profession tell you? The OGYI's license has been revoked, and it's enough for the Secretary of State to agree to a vaccine. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is the best epidemiological expert in Hungary, and I do not dispute it. I think he's a smart man, and I'm sure that's what he's good at. But you have to understand. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The importance of people trusting a vaccine can only be achieved by taking into account the opinion of the profession in particular. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2021-02-16-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would also like to welcome my fellow Members. I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to put this debate to the extremes, but Mr Lőrinc Nacsa has made some specific points to me. Indeed, Congressman, the municipality is for the people, the municipality carries out mandatory tasks, very important public services. We also know that the state and Parliament, the government, are for man. It is also the task of the Parliament, the government, to provide these resources to the municipalities. [[14.10]] Therefore, as the central resources required for public tasks which the municipalities must perform, and when we talk about you, however, affecting the municipalities with a series of severe restrictions, they do not attack the municipalities, they do not damage the municipalities, they do not damage the municipalities, they do damage the people living in the cities, districts and small settlements, so these public services are important to them. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz takes his place in the notary seat.]] We have held the appropriate debates on each such proposal, and László Parragh has announced this particular plan in relation to the trade tax, which the government has taken within the framework of the extraordinary mandate. I myself have written letters to many mayors, city mayors, and I have received many answers, in which the mayors have made it clear that they consider this idea to be incredibly irresponsible, and in the event of such a move, they will not be able to manage the provision of these important public services, and I add that I have received such a letter from pro-government mayors. You have seen in your movement that practically political manual control, so in this way political gain has motivated you to receive compensation, supplemental, no other municipalities, no opposition authorities have received, but you cannot do so in such a serious epidemiological situation, and you cannot do so in order to punish those people and endanger the provision of public services in cities where, in most cases, voters have not voted for you. Such a restriction was, by the way, the government's withdrawal from the financing of local public transport. No city can carry out this task in itself, a serious and irresponsible step in such an epidemiological situation, where it is truly in our interest to increase the frequency of flights. There are virtually no resources to maintain water supply, to provide water supply in the medium term, and otherwise to indebte these settlements and increase the problems and increase the economic damage, since if maintenance is delayed now, adequate replacements will cost much more money later. Similarly, public lighting, kindergarten care and millions of other important municipal public services have been put at risk because of your austerity policy. Why did they do this, so why did they take these funds away from the municipalities and then use these funds for what? We have talked more than once about the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, for which 200 billion HUF is spent in two years. So, on the one hand, you put the municipalities in an extremely dangerous position, you push them to the limit of their ability to function, and on the other hand, you spend the money that is cut off from them to such projects, the documents about their return, the possible return, and you do not reveal them to the Hungarian people. I would like to refer to one more point concerning the traditional functioning of the Parliament. You weren't telling the truth, Congressman. I have been very active in the work of the Parliament last year, we have had many debates, and I have said more than a symbolic, important proposal that we are convinced that they have a place in front of the Parliament. That's not what I'm talking about. I was talking about the fact that when you talk about trust, you made the mistake of bringing in a lot of proposals and pushing through a lot of legislative proposals in such an epidemiological situation, behind which there is nothing more than net political gain, their own preparation for an election defeat, if any, and thus undermining the confidence that, in an epidemiological situation, a very harsh amendment of the electoral law was introduced, contrary to what they said a year earlier. A year before the government declared that there was no justification for amending the electoral law, a very harsh, drastic intervention was carried out in the electoral law. Similarly, amendments to the fund trusts have been introduced into the basic law amendment. There is no good intentions behind these, here was the net political gain and the technology of power. I have mentioned these gigantic investments, and I do not want to say it again, but here is the university outsourcing, honourable Congressman Nacsa. Indeed, Secretary of State Schanda has also indicated that we have had a lot of discussions on this so-called university model change, but Parliamentary Secretary Bódis has just said that in the case of major rural universities, universities with regional roles, there really needs to be much more experience in order to start this model change there. Compared to this, without guarantees, practically contrary to government statements at the end of last year, this process was introduced in such a serious epidemiological situation. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] , it was launched, in a situation where Senates and university citizenship could not even carry out meetings with personal participation. And we could see the information about the Senate meetings; let's say, not from Debrecen, because everything was fixed in a closed session, there's a lot we don't know about. But it was formulated in both the Szeged and the Senate meetings in Pécs that they were practically in an emergency situation, that there were no guarantees, no information, and that they were actually implemented or voted in order to start negotiations because they felt that they could be in much more trouble because of government behavior. But everyone said what guarantees they would expect. If you were serious about changing models, you wouldn't do that by putting such a university in a foundation with your real estate, your assets, everything, that there's no guarantee that these properties should be used for higher education in the future. It's an amazing and cynical process. If you had thought seriously that this privatisation, which you are carrying out, would in some way serve the development, you could have made a decision, say, that the Senate should choose the members of the board, have the opportunity to withdraw the Senate elected by the university citizens. This is, therefore, an amazing intention of power technology, and it is clear that the aim is to gain control of the huge resources coming in from the European Union for the purposes of research and development, and you have implemented this in a serious epidemiological situation. I will ask the Member again why the documents relating to large investments are being encrypted if you are convinced that it is in the interests of the Hungarian people. You still haven't answered, honourable Member, in your speech or one of today's speeches, you spoke of rumors and false publicity, that when one of the State Secretary said that he accused the professor of virology of being alarmed that he shouldn't apologize to the public for this irresponsible statement, and when he said on 2 October that the numbers had stabilized. I believe that this was an extremely irresponsible, gravely irresponsible statement that should have been at least apologized to the public. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-86	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very pleased that my fellow Members highlight from all aspects the inadequacy of this proposal and the circumstances that led opposition representatives to the point of not being able to grant this kind of authorisation. When the WHO arrived last March with a description of the type of outbreak in the world, there were, of course, immediately along with the descriptions of the virus's behavior, which had already been scientifically confirmed. A responsible prime minister then calls in the members of the government, and the first sentence is this: in society there are quite a lot of fears for all reasons, but we have to solve this work, this defence, so that we can ease the fear rather than increase it. Everyone knows that a responsible government is capable of overcoming any catastrophe, protecting people, their health and their lives by avoiding an increase in fear. But, as we can see, this was not the basic principle in the government to overcome it with as little fear as possible and with as much discipline and professionalism as possible, but also what money could be deducted from the public sector from this epidemic. Unfortunately, that's the biggest problem in the last 11 months. He says the Health Act is 56. § (1) that the purpose of the epidemiological activity is to prevent and combat infectious diseases, to prevent and combat epidemics, and to increase the resistance of the human organism to infectious diseases, so the health law puts the goals of improving the resistance of the immune system, resistance and health as a priority to the management of the epidemic, and what happens? Eight months ago, in my letter to Minister Kásler, in my statement to the social media, I ask in Parliament's speeches that they be kind enough to give people the tools to increase their resilience as information, to try to get as much vitamins as possible at a cost. There are procedures, there are life - management advices that could have been given to people to increase their resilience. [[14.20]] But now, if you will allow me, fellow Members, the daily report that has been on the coronal virus website since March, I will analyse it in front of you and I will tell you what the purpose of this is: to show fellow Members how the government's daily report on the consequences of the coronal virus is based on a series of untruths. What's a daily report like this? For example, I called one of the daily ones here: the new coronal virus infection was detected in 1337 new Hungarian citizens, thus increasing the number of infected people identified in Hungary to 388 799. So what's it say? It's always about how many new infected are first, and how many are all the numbers, and then the next sentence is about the number of deceased, mostly elderly, chronic patients. It's never written here that this many people have died because of the complications of the coronal virus epidemic, but it's just that so many people have passed away, most of them are elderly, chronic patients. First of all, with regard to the coronal virus epidemic, what do people have to do with the fact that those who died were chronic patients and what age were they? It's none of our business. It doesn't matter. The interesting thing about this type of report is how many people lost their lives as a direct result of an epidemic, if already published. How does it go? So the number of people who died was so high and so high. Then comes the ugliest sentence, which is actually shocking to me, that there are so many health professionals around the government, and the only one that hasn't told me not to mislead society in this way. The number of cured is constantly increasing, currently 298,000, and the number of active infected is reduced to 77 000. Please, the infected and the sick are not the same! Healing can be done by someone who was sick. If you're infected, you're not sick. Compared with this, he mixes the cured with the infected and, for example, tells people on this day that 298,000 were already sick and how wonderful it was to be cured. No! There are 298,000 people who are no longer infected, and not those who are cured! It is of the utmost importance that people themselves should assess the prospects of getting sick if this virus is infected; if they get sick, there is a chance that they will recover; and what are the circumstances that give them a great chance that if they get sick, they may die. These data are not suitable for the information required by the Health Act, as stated in my previous comment. And then here's the next thing: they're treating the number of coronal viral patients in the hospital, and every day they report how many people are on the ventilator, as if the ventilator were the primary tool for healing. The ventilator is not a healing tool for people who have been sick during a coronal virus epidemic, the ventilator is a breathing aid, which is not certain at all for all patients with coronal virus, so for those who are not only infected, but who may need it. For example, it is completely unnecessary to disclose this data, because it does not show real data, it does not satisfy people's right to be informed, because it does not add a lot of other conditions that this information would be suitable for anything. This report can give people one thing: it knows that it excites fear, that everyday numbers, which are published every morning at 9:00 a.m., generate a sense of fear in people, but they do not give any information about making informed decisions on their own. During this debate, our fellow Member István Hollik boasted how honest the Hungarian government is, because the number of deaths is high, because they include not only people who die from the disease caused by the coronal virus, so they will have a complication of pneumonia or pulmonary embolism, or anything that can form the virus itself, but they will include all those who died for any other reason, but they did have a coronal virus in their system. Well, that's the biggest lie the Earth ever had on its back. If this method, this technique, why do you not like to include in the statistics the number of people who actually died from the contagion caused by the coronal virus epidemic, or have had completely different diseases, otherwise it is likely that during hospital treatment they successfully received the coronal virus in the hospital and did not die because of the coronal virus infection? For if this were to be distinguished from each other, and it turned out that a maximum of one third of the number of dead reported every day was who really died in the confluence of the coronal virus, society could not be intimidated, it would not be possible for them to feel the danger that all the confusion and uncertainty in society that we see today would arise. The Health Act states that the epidemiological surveillance should be terminated within 48 hours of the average incubation period of the infectious disease if the risk of infection can be excluded as a result of the medical examination. My fellow Members have already said so, and we have received a lot of letters from citizens who are informing us about the quarantine issue: we are experiencing abnormal things throughout the country, how and how the organisations are treating the issue of quarantine in an astonishing way. It is stated that isolation or quarantine should be determined within 48 hours of the average incubation period. But please, in the last 11 months, the profession hasn't even been able to demonstrate the incubation period of this coronal virus epidemic. We don't even know that! So we don't even know where 48 hours start after 11 months. They hit them in the stomach, and they say something. How many times do we hear that the quarantine order will be given to the person concerned later than when the quarantine period is over? Don't tell me that this disease management has gone well when we find such a mass of abnormalities in the lives of our fellow citizens. I would like to point out that the measures, these 70 regulations, which are supposed to be sanctioned by the government with Parliament, do not have any scientific justification for one measure. Everyone knows that I am extremely humble to science, and I absolutely accept what the profession and scientists say about a particular issue, because we must rely on those who are not familiar with the field, but we must make political decisions. But in this country, in the last 11 months, there has been no such thing as a meeting of scientists in this field, developing a common position on specific issues, and presenting this to society. Everyone who runs around the coronal virus epidemic and can call themselves a specialist is talking nonsense, there is no coherence between them, there is no predictability in it, and people say that if scientists are not able to present to society some kind of exact, acceptable, consistent position on various issues, who to believe. Then everyone turns to themselves and says that I'm trying to survive, but if the individual wants to survive, we don't have to shut down an entire country and eliminate our economic resources. We thought, by May 2020, when we had already had a two-month experience of comparing infection numbers, disease numbers and real mortality numbers once, and making the kind of conclusion about this virus that shows the exact direction of defense for a government. That never happened. Finally, in my last two minutes, I would like to talk about two issues, which are also the subject of unforgivableness, one of which is the institutional system of standing in line. There are a few of us in this Parliament who are older and have lived quite a lot in the socialist system, and our parents and grandparents have given us the experiences they have experienced in their stories. In Hungary, standing in line was a bad system, a symptom of a painful system and the gift of a painful system, and we do not want Hungarian society to be forced to stand in line again for any reason. [[14.30]] It was shocking to me, and it is unacceptable that the leaders of institutions have shown a mass lack of interest when people are lined up in minus degrees in front of their offices or institutions, rather than serving people at the level of today's technical development with a telephone or Internet log-in system or a hot room for a few people. What I can tell you is that these leaders who let go of this, and those who let go of this, should be fired the next day, because they are not fit to be leaders in their human nature. And the last question, which is also an unforgivable question, is that, in addition to the death of their loved ones who died in hospitals, they could not say good-bye mass, and then the system added a shovel to it when they told the relatives that only because there was a coronal virus infection in the deceased's body could not be buried in coffins. And there were a lot of families who had to cremate their families against their feelings and will, just because some idiot in the country made that up. There is no scientific evidence that the deceased man's body is infected by three meters underground, in a coffin, and clothed. We know that in order for someone to get sick, they need to have contact with a coronal virus given or left behind by another person. So it's amazing and unforgivable. This system, designed by this government, has become inhumane, and there will be no help from those who have not been involved. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-88	Thank you. Before giving the floor to my fellow Member, Mr Attila Mesterházy, I would like to ask whether he wishes to speak in two minutes or in a normal manner, because he is registered for both. [[Gergely Harvesto: Both of them! Attila Mesterházy: Two minutes.]] Two minutes, then. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-89	[[The sound system is running late.]] ... because that's the goal of the alliance, to please each other and help each other. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] It's been a while since we talked about this... [[At least you didn't slide down the gutters!]] Congressman Nacsa, don't be disbarred, why can't we please each other with my fellow Member, Mr Gergő Harvesto? [[Defiance.]] Actually, I was curious an hour or half an hour ago, you mentioned it, but the Prime Minister also told me yesterday that the Red Barons had received support. I would like to look forward to my fellow Member Nacha listing who they think they are. Is there a list of red barons and white barons on it? So, who do you think are Red Barons, that's my first question. If you could help us find out who our Red Barons are, as you used to say, and as the Prime Minister said yesterday. So give us guidance in this by listing some specific names. On the other hand, you have only done one loose move to criminalize Mr. Csaba Czeglédy, I think we should wait until the trial is over. [[Earlier!]] I think the presumption of innocence belongs to everyone. Either in your benches there is a Happy Member or a Member of the Council of Simonka or former Vice-President of the Economic Commission, Roland Mengyi, who is no longer a vice-president, because I believe he spends his days in one of the penitentiary. So the prison team is expanding nicely with you. The third point would be that Katalin Tüttő, Deputy Mayor, also said with a loose move that they would decide at a reception what kind of tender could be won. I would reject this; you are those who likewise decide in various hunting mansiones or here and there, and distribute among yourselves the European Union or other money, see: Happy Stephen's intricate cause. We don't do that. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Here, these things are decided on a tender. So I wanted to reject that statement as well. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2021-02-16-90	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner nodds.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-02-16-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke to him during the debate about why I didn't want to speak. I believe that what was a legal part I managed to say in the expoze, and that there were not very good comments on it, so allow me to stay out of the debate at a time like this. However, political statements have been made, as the government is also a political organisation to which I should definitely respond, material errors, slippages, inaccuracies and so on, which, based on respect for reality, deserve to be corrected. First of all, what's this whole law about, what's this time of year we're living? We know that at the beginning of 2020, Hungary was also affected by a coronal virus epidemic. I would like to inform everyone that this is a pandemic, not a Hungarian phenomenon, but Hungary is fighting it alone. That is why sometimes the government uses comparative data when it talks about the effectiveness of the fight against the epidemic or about its position; and when it makes these statements, they are always based on numbers and facts. This is not a glory report, just that we are not worse off than the ever-highest Western states, democracies and well-organized Brussels. I think it's appropriate to say these things, or they're suggesting that there's really something wrong with this situation in the country. What are the main targets? In the beginning, we said that protecting life is a priority, and the second is protecting people from existential fear. This can be translated into job protection, economic protection, moratorium, preferential loans, benefits, or the first instalment of the 13th month's pension. They all serve the purpose of making people feel calmer about their existence. There were various accusations that the government wasn't prepared, and he didn't know that the second wave would come. I would like to recall it to everyone, and if you look up the National Journal, you will find it, on 21 September 2020 the Prime Minister spoke in front of the agenda at the beginning of the session, saying that experts believe that the epidemic can culminate with up to 200 thousand active infected people, that 16,000 hospital beds may be needed; and he asked professionals for the capacity to ensure these, which, even in the event of a double load, will protect the lives and health of the population as much as possible. The responsibility of the government was mentioned, and he quoted a statement to Gurmai Zita, perhaps by Congressman Bellozó. I read the quote exactly, it was about the government's responsibility to get protective equipment, ventilators, hospital beds, hospital staff. Obviously, the government is not expected to stop the coronal virus at the borders, or the one who is sick, to be cured by the government, or, if it has not been cured, it would be on the government's conscience. Let's just be grown-ups. Let's be serious. Despite your view of Parliament as a political Hyde Park in this case, or even as members of the Gyurcsány coalition, the same choir is performed in a different voice, the same inability to be placed in a better place on this much-mentioned list, this does not justify being thrown away from reality and allowed to do so. As regards the various things that have been raised. The question of local governments has been raised. I beg you, it was practically a part of the weight tax that contributed to the defense costs of last year, which is far from being proportionate to the government and state efforts that have taken place. It's an industrial tax, which was also said. Practically about one third of the business tax comes from small and medium-sized enterprises in the municipalities, and half of it has been released by the government. He didn't take it, he left it in small and medium-sized enterprises so that they wouldn't go bankrupt, and they could continue to pay the other half to municipalities this year and the following. So it was a responsible decision. When we talk about the promotion of companies, we were talking about tourism: practically on a normative basis, all the companies in the tourism sector who were spending accommodation could receive one million forints per room. It was said that Red Barons and NER knights and all kinds of comparisons. If you say that those who are not government voters are all your voters, we could say that those of you who are not part of the government are all red barons on your side, and they are yours. But such a division doesn't make sense in this country. Yesterday, Prime Minister said clearly that there are economic difficulties, there is an epidemic, and the priority is to protect lives, and no matter who owns the workplace, who has given existence to a family, we must support it, and we can get into it. [[14.40]] Of course, if you're here to label, you can obviously get sarcastic that the Red Barons have been given. Find a friend who missed this kind of opportunity, which, I'm telling you, could be done in a very simple way. There was talk of a moratorium. If we didn't accept this now and we couldn't extend it, indeed, families, companies would be in a more difficult position, and loans would have to be repaid immediately. The system of wage subsidies has also been mentioned. In practice, 50 percent wage support can now be paid to businesses in advance, precisely because the government used the relief of bureaucratic burdens when it noticed these complaints, and the contributions were also released, which is also largely forgotten; the employment indicators, which are virtually the same as the one year before the epidemic, all prove that these steps are effective and effective. Another question is that they can't open the restaurants, the hotels, I can see that the Danube can't walk the hiking boats. So there is a sector that is in a very difficult situation until this kind of epidemic is over. Technically, that's why we need to get to the vaccine as soon as possible. It has been said, Congressman Mesterházy, that we have not committed our quota to the Union. I'm asking you, if we had tied down three times this much, but we didn't get what we just committed, then what's the point of this whole thing, or how he wants to make a political pamphlet out of it, that we're doing the wrong thing. What is the possibility here? It is, in practice, to obtain vaccines outside the EU, which, by the way, have proved well in the world, for example in the Arab States. Or even the national representative mentioned that they studied how Chinese and Russian vaccines work in Serbia. They're interestingly effective, they work well. The Hungarian authorities examined them, and the Russians sent samples last year, which allowed the investigation to be carried out. We had specialists out in China. You all know that very well, and in various statements, these are the ones, but they're still doing the smokescreen, the debauchery. In DK, it is said that they are not anti-vaccinations, but then why are they calling the Russian vaccine a human experiment, that's what they're calling it. [[Gergely Harvester: Because it is!]] Technically, yes, thank you, Congressman Arato has confirmed it. Technically, you're saying that at the end of a non-existent EU process, we're adopting these vaccines, which we can't start, the Union doesn't ask, or your boss said [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] That's where they're headed. And drug manufacturers are basically trying to mess with them when they can't even satisfy their own internal market, so this would be a ridiculous affair. The other part is that you guys often act like you're agents of the big western pharmaceutical companies, and that's all you're gonna accept... By the way, it should be noted that Pfizer is the most expensive vaccine, maybe you didn't notice... [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true, because Chinese is three times as expensive!]] We'll see. The other part of the question is that in the case of price, when it comes to lives, the kind of EU bargaining has also struck back, by the way, what they have done before. They may have negotiated good prices, but they do not receive the vaccine, but the Israelis, for example, or the people of Britain, where 15 million people have already been vaccinated, a quarter of the population, and perhaps half of the population in Israel. This means that the Union is a very nice thing, but perhaps a little bureaucratic, a little slow. If we can speed up our own business, then we do need to get those three and a half million doses of vaccine plus that we can prevent countries of similar magnitude so that we can practically get out of this situation in a few months. I say they say they are not anti-vaccinations, but I am pleased that Congressman Arató has confirmed that, indeed, he still considers the Russian vaccine to be a human experiment. They're running a nasty, unconvincing campaign to make sure that the population in terms of vaccines and the economy doesn't have enough confidence. It has to be acknowledged that last spring there may have been a minor problem, but there was more fear, and as we got into it, the problem got bigger, but practically people knew it, they could adapt to it, they could defend themselves with masks, distance, hand sanitization. All of this has resulted in a kind of balance. The other thing about anti-vaccination, which is particularly outrageous, is that while sided by side with their own mayors, such as György Hiesz and Imre László, they have just been caught, they are inoculated, taking advantage of the privileges of the elite. It's also completely repulsive, when they say these vaccines are dangerous and insecure, and we don't know where we stand on this. Several objections were made to the functioning of Parliament. I beg you, the law on electoral proceedings should no longer have to be amended by government decree. You've always yelled about fake parties. The moment came when it was possible to make a decision on this, we were still outside of a year, and then it was said that, two years or three years ago, they were talking about starting on a common list, as if you had suffered any disadvantage, while the parliamentary formations sitting here had been able to jump the type of nomination threshold that had otherwise been included in this draft law. The restli, the real fake parties, are on a more difficult course, but this has not been a recognition on your part, but, I'm telling you, they're trying to express the kind of criticism that we would force you to join this kind of Gyurcsány virus coalition. One more thing about crisis management. Mrs Gyurcsány, who is Klára Dobrev, I know I'm just clarifying to Mr Arató, but no doubt they're married, I think they've never been apart ideologically on ATV recently, where she said that in 2008, they handled the crisis by helping banks. After that, don't tell us anything in this area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-16-92	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments were possible until the general debate of the bill was concluded, according to Parliament's decision yesterday. Dear Parliament, A parliamentary report by the President of the Curia on the activities of the Curia in 2019 in the sphere of legal unity and control of local government standards, together with the joint general debate on the adoption of the resolution proposal until closure. Report submitted by the President of the Curia B/11035. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/13952. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear House, I'll give you the floor first, Zs Varga. Mr Andras, President of the Curia, author of the report. You have the floor.
u2021-02-16-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, After my election, I stand before this House for the first time that, as President of the Curia, the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and functioning of the courts. As required by law, I shall report on the activities undertaken to ensure the unity of the application of the law of the court and on the experience gained in the performance of tasks relating to the infringement and annulment of municipal regulations, as well as the failure to fulfil its legislative obligations under the law of the municipality. The feature of this occasion is that I have not compiled the report myself, but my predecessor, Dr. Péter Darák. In fact, the report before the Judicial Committee President Peter Darák introduced him. Not only my respect for him, but also the subject of the report requires that I do not fundamentally deviate from what he has said. President Darák highlighted four aspects of the report before the Judicial Committee. Please allow me to begin with these myself, even if not in the same order and not in the same emphasis. Dear House, The first point to be highlighted is that in 2019 Hungary and the Hungarian judiciary celebrated an important anniversary, the 4th of 1869 on the exercise of judicial power. Act adopted 150 years earlier. 1 of this law. Article 4 of the Act provides that . The administration of justice shall be separated from the public administration. This succinct sentence is the posterity of judicial independence, the adoption of parliament is the birthday of judicial independence. Its significance is that it was assessed here, by the complete meeting and scientific conference in the Upper House of Parliament. The reason why this event is memorable to me is because at the Curia's full meeting, even as a member of the Constitutional Court, I was able to attend it myself. Mr László Kövér spoke at the full meeting, who pointed out in his speech the inseparability of judicial independence and the independence of Hungary. It is important to see the weight of it clearly today. [[14.50]] Today, judicial independence means no less than 152 years ago: justice must operate independently of any external influence, not only in general from the state executive power, but also from any kind of domestic or foreign external power or even from its own administration; the latter, regardless of whether it is carried out by the Minister of Justice, an independent office or a judicial body. In its current form of operation, the public administration will ensure the conditions for the administration of justice and verify the institutional regularity of the judicial operation, but I repeat: it cannot intervene independently of its current form of operation. This leads to the following aspect: that judicial independence protects not only the court from external influence, but also constitutes a barrier for the courts, a limit laid down by the constitutional rule for the courts of Hungary. This is the following: judges cannot engage in political activities, they must play their role in public law within the framework of the Fundamental Law and the legislation, they must not leave this framework, they must not claim a role which the constitutional traditions of the Fundamental Law and Hungary reserve for other branches of power. The year 2019, which is the subject of the report, confirms that the Curia has maintained its independence in this respect as well. One year earlier, in 2018, it was up to the President of the Curia to prepare the Curia for the introduction of independent administrative justice. The task was to ensure the institutional and personal separation of the Curia takes place smoothly. 2019 started with the same task, and in the middle of the year the process was interrupted by the government's decision, which, at the end of the year, was indisputable by the constitutional power of the Parliament. At both stages, the Curia participated in a series of serious efforts, but did not claim the right to make a decision. He did what he learned from the sage of the country, Ferenc Deák, and I quote: "There is an eternal and unchangeable principle, which must always exist intact wherever the law rules; and this is the principle that the laws must be kept closely and their binding power can be abolished only by the legitimate legislative power. So far, the quote, the rightful legislative power or the Constitutional Court, can be added today, nothing else. With this in mind, the Curia observed the increasingly political debate around the administrative courts. He did not participate in this because he could not participate; neither did he, when conflicting assessments were received from the European institutions, and when the individual institutions assessed autonomous administrative judicial action as a source of danger to the rule of law, that the Council of Europe's competent body in constitutional matters, the Venice Commission, did not find fault with it, and the Constitutional Court of Hungary did not. Dear Parliament, The question may arise as to why it is necessary to waste so many words on a closed process. Not because the Curia is slowly the only continental court that operates as an administrative supreme court in addition to classic criminal and civil judgment, but rather because a two-year legislative process, which represents a complete change of direction, leaves a mark on the institution to which it relates. In 2019 this was only possible, but the following year, which I will have to report later, can be clearly demonstrated: the organization of the Curia and its operational dynamics have also changed. However, it is still in the year 2019 that the National Assembly confirmed the role of the Curia as a decorated legal uniter guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. The legislative amendments adopted in December made, on the one hand, the binding force of the Curia's ad hoc decisions indisputable and, on the other hand, an effective tool to enforce this: the complaint of the legal unit. We can now see that the institution has started to deliver the expected results: the 2019 report, like in previous years, could present relatively few legal unit procedures, which accelerated in 2020, and this year became very common and, if not everyday, but weekly, but I will report on this later. In this context, however, I should also mention the process that started with the introduction of a genuine constitutional complaint and is aimed at implementing the basic law consistent case-law. The new legal unit complaints also had a positive impact on this, as did the legislative strengthening of the institutional approach established by the professional dialogue between the Constitutional Court and the Curia. The amendments to the Law of December 2019 closed the silent but existing debate on the judicial nature of the Constitutional Court since the beginning of the regime change. Although the examination of genuine constitutional complaints already ruled out doubts in principle, the amendment also excluded practical ones. Since the system of remuneration of constitutional judges is based on the law on judicial status and the career of constitutional judges can be linked to the judiciary, this process can be considered to be closed in the public domain. Finally, I must also mention the phenomenon of which we did not even suspect at the end of 2019, but which still exists today, and the end of which, however much we would like to see, we do not see: this is the epidemic situation, which also faced the Curia with a major challenge. Thanks to the work of the National Court Office over the last decade, and in particular the daily working relationship since then, as part of the judiciary, the Curia has been able to endure. However, this makes one of the basic principles of judicial proceedings, directness and enforcement difficult, and requires extraordinary efforts from judges, everyday efforts. I must point out that the difficulties were faced not only by the judges of the Curia, but by all the Members of the Curia, they showed results that could not be expected: they reduced the backlog of the case, they completed more cases than in previous years. They did this in the midst of learning how the new technical tools worked, the initial disruptions of their introduction and the very difficult communication; they did so in fear of infection, and in many cases overcoming the disease. It may not be an exaggeration here, even before the National Assembly, to say that, as state employees in direct contact with the parties, we are very much looking forward to extrapolating for ourselves and for those in contact with us. Dear House, I would like to highlight a number of concrete decisions taken in 2019 that clearly indicate that the Curia is fulfilling its constitutional task and that it will carry out the task assigned to it in order to standardise the case law. One of the first cases I would like to highlight is the question of a referendum on an athletic stadium, in which the Curia stated as a principled statement: that in the case of an approved referendum, the non-signature of signatures will not be exercised when another signature collection is initiated on the same issue. In another case, the racist and extremist registration on Facebook was assessed by the Curia on the basis of an extraordinary dispensation, and stated that it was a principle against a public employee in a teaching position to behave in a manner worthy of his office outside the walls of the school. The Curia has carried out significant activities in the implementation of the new Code of Civil Procedure. In this context, it has also carried out a case-law analysis, but a significant one is 1/2019. Our legal unit decision, which, contrary to the formal approach, has gained ground in the lower courts, said that if the application is capable of being sued, it should also be able to be accepted, there should be no place for rejection. This and the anomalies identified by the case-law analysis in 2020 are Pp. have led to a novel amendment. [[15.00]] The Curia has also continued its work in the consultation panel on the case law of nullity cases, set up in 2016, which has made significant recommendations in the year 2019, for example as regards the possible consequences of nullity, from which I would like to highlight the conclusion that, in the application of the legal consequences, the consumer should in no way be more disadvantaged and that, in the course of settlement, the judgment should not give rise to a further claim enforceable by the financial institution. It is also important to provide information on the exchange rate risk that is taking over the debt, which confirmed the previous case-law that, if the necessary information is not received by the debtor, the consequence is nullity. The Curia has also taken a decision on criminal justice in the interpretation of the intent to murder. In accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Decision No.3 states that a declaration of intent to commit a criminal offence without notice may be appropriate for the purpose of establishing the offence. The decision of the legal unit is a serious step in the direction which requires firm judicial practice in order to maintain the legal order and public order. An important case-by-case decision has also been taken to compare the terms of criminal supervision and bail in a matter of high public interest on the part of the press. I cannot leave the case in which the Curia acted on the basis of a request for legal remedy lodged by the General Prosecutor and in which it concluded that the suspension of criminal proceedings in respect of a question which is not linked to the subject matter of the case is unlawful even if it is in the interest of initiating a preliminary ruling. I must stress that this decision contains only a statement of principle because of the form of appeal, that judge was not prevented from referring to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling, and that the procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union is still pending in this case. On the other hand, the principle of the decision is that of the Constitutional Court at a later date, 11/2020 on the applicability of European and domestic law. Ab's resolution confirmed it. Dear Parliament, Following the presentation of the legal consolidation activity, I should briefly mention the other subject of the report, the activities of the Municipal Council of the Curia in 2019. In the year 2019, 40 cases of this kind were brought to the Curia, together with 45 cases left behind from the previous year, and the Curia, more specifically the Council of the City Council, a large part of which was 26 judicial initiatives, a large number of other initiatives were taken from government offices, and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights initiated such a procedure. As in previous years, the rate of judicial initiatives was highest, and this year we achieved the highest value in terms of 91 percent of the proposals submitted, i.e. nine out of ten, being judged on merit by the Curia. There is therefore a process of ripening this legal institution, and they are submitting more and more effective and successful applications to the Curia Municipal Council. However, the substantive assessment did not always lead to the annulment of the contested municipal decree, to destruction in a proportion of around half and the rejection of the application. As in previous years, this year, in particular, the number of applications for legalisation of local construction regulations has increased, and 2019 was the first year when a relatively large number of cases raised the regulation of the protection of the settlement image and the decisions taken by the municipality. Most of the land tax and construction tax initiatives were rejected by the Curia and found the decree illegal in three cases. It should be noted that this year, the Curia confirmed its practice on proportionality of property types in the previous year due to a change in legislation in 2018, stating that the issue of proportionality is adapted to a wider range of taxable persons and can only prejudice the considerations of normality. However, it continued to raise a question and the subject of an investigation in these cases is that it was not aimed at the taxation of specifically defined taxable persons in the municipal regulation, i.e. it is indeed a normative one. The procedure initiated by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights was presented in the context of a local construction policy concerning the protection of nature on the shore of Lake Balaton. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights claimed that the introduction of a new land use unit could lead to a significant change in the environmental status of the waterfront due to the regularisation of a so-called sub-zone and would allow for a different application from the basic order. The Curia annulled the decision in question, stating that the territorial unit of the administrative area may legally belong only to a category intended for installation or not intended for installation, which is an alternative, therefore, there is no common section of these two comprehensive territorial categories which the municipality intended to regulate in this sub-zone. Also in one case, the Curia was forced to establish a public invalidity in respect of a local government when a municipal decree was amended in violation of local legislation, which was challenged by a government official's motion. Dear House, 110 years ago, the President of the Curia, Antal Günther, pointed out that there is no state in the world with the exception of one Great Britain, whose highest judicial territory could be traced back to such an ancient origin as the Curia of Hungary. He then recalled that, 160 years ago, the former President of the Curia, Count György Apponyi, who re-entered the city after years of authoritarianism, saw one of the ancient institutions of our country, the strongest guarantee of our legitimate position, the independence of our legislation. The Curia was faithful to this tradition in 2019. All I can do is swear I'll be faithful to that. God bless the Mansion, God save Hungary! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-94	Thank you, Mr. President. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur for the motion for a decision. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-95	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin my exposé, allow me to welcome Zs Varga to our plenary session with great respect. Mr András, President of the Curia, who is the first person to attend our plenary session in this capacity. I also welcome the Vice-Presidents, head of the Curia and its staff. The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 117. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (b), the then President of the Curia, Dr. Péter Darák, submitted to the National Assembly the activities of the Curia in 2019 in the field of legal unity and control of local government standards, B/11035. Mr Darák, former President of the Curia, has also participated in this report, which was discussed as a committee appointed at the meeting of the Judicial and Competent Committee on 24 November 2020. So the situation here in front of Parliament is specific, because we are discussing a report in which the current President of the Curia, Zs Varga, is discussing. Mr András did not participate, and he did not participate in the committee's debate on justice. So we can say Varga Zs. President András must act before the Parliament in accordance with the material supplied. Please appreciate this fact. [[15.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Fundamental Law, the courts carry out judicial activities in which they decide on criminal matters, on private disputes defining the daily lives of citizens, and on the legality of administrative decisions. The year 2019 was a name in the lives of the Curia and the court organization, as the Parliament adopted the IV of 1869 on judicial power just 150 years ago. a law article, which was a major event in the development of modern-day Hungarian democracy and in the modern history of the judiciary. This law established the basic principles and frameworks that build up the system of judicial organizations, which we still expect to operate from the Mansion and the courts. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the context of the Commission's debate, the Judicial Committee heard a detailed report on the work of the Curia in 2019. The Committee welcomed the work of the Curia as a unit of law in 2019, in particular the adoption of unit decisions on the admission of the application, a new single decision on the interpretation of the intent to kill, and the findings of invalidity proceedings concerning the status of consumers. The Committee acknowledged the Curia's efforts to standardise non-compete agreements and the practice of study contracts. The Committee also considered cases where the court acted on the basis of an appeal lodged by the Attorney General in the interest of legality to be of particular importance. The committee listened to a summary of the President of the Curia in the role of local government standard control, and welcomed the effectiveness of the Council of the Municipality, on the basis of which it was able to judge more than 90 percent of the cases submitted in substance. These cases were typically related to local taxes and local construction regulations in 2019 as well, but a new element was the review of municipal decisions related to the protection of settlement image. The members of the committee asked questions about the role of the Curia in the application of the law of the lower courts, the situation of the judicial feedback following the publication of the case-law analysis, the establishment of a database containing the sentences awarded by the court, and the possible change in matters falling within the remit of the Council of the Municipality. On the basis of what was said in the debate, the Committee concluded that the professional objectives of the Curia for 2019 had been achieved. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Judicial Committee at the meeting of the President of the Curia on 24 November 2020 shall report to Parliament on the activities of the Curia in 2019 in the field of the provision of the legal unit and control of local government standards. His report was adopted unanimously by 10 votes in favour. The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee shall be laid down in Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure. H/13952 submitted pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of this Article. The President of the Curia recommends to this House a report on its proposal for a resolution. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] H/13952 submitted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. The President of the Curia recommends to this House a report on its proposal for a resolution. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. )
u2021-02-16-96	Thank you. I'm going to ask if there's anyone who wants to speak on behalf of the government at this stage. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Zoltán Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-97	Dear President of the Curia, Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Parliament, I predict that whenever we discuss a parliamentary report in front of the Parliament, it is always a specific framework. And as the speakers before me have already referred to it, the paradox is that President Darák has prepared a report with his colleagues, even in December we heard at the committee meeting, on which the chairman of the committee has just reported and made a decision; and the new President is here with us, and he is actually the rapporteur here. We wish the President and his colleagues good work in the future. [[Dr. Varga Zs. András nodds.]] It is statutory that every year, for years now, a report must be prepared by the President of the Curia, and this must be reported in Parliament. The report, as I said, was prepared according to a specific framework and a set of criteria, so it is likely that the speakers here will repeat certain parts of it, given that this report is on the agenda as a specific topic. The function of the Curia is twofold: on the one hand, it carries out a case-law activity and, on the other hand, it ensures uniform application of the law of the courts. Hungary's Supreme Court has set itself the achievement of a number of remarkable professional goals, which have been summarised in its medium-term institutional strategy, which has been renewed. This strategy sets out the goals and values to be achieved by the Curia, the role of the Curia. These objectives and values include, inter alia, the protection of the rule of law, the enforcement of the principle of democratic power, the protection of human rights, the provision of high standards and predictability of case-law. The Curia is responsible for the quality of the work of the lower level court forums as the highest level of the single court organisation. To this end, the Curia will work together to develop solutions on certain interpretation issues with lower-level courts. Dear Parliament, The new strategy addresses, among other things, the following issues: the new Hungarian court system, new substantive codes and procedural laws, digitisation, new data protection and data processing requirements and challenges. As a result of these strategic objectives described, the Curia had an important task in 2019 to be able to properly prepare and adapt to the changes that started in 19 and 20 respectively. For example, CXXVII of 2019 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. Law, which introduced a new instrument to ensure the unity of the application of the law, a single complaint procedure. Furthermore, the change affecting the powers of the Curia is that the administrative and labour courts have ceased; in the administrative proceedings, the eight courts have regional jurisdiction; in the second instance, the Curia is acting in appeal or review proceedings; in some cases, the Curia is acting solely. The President has also made a plastic statement on these in his speech. Dear Parliament, It is important to review the professional objectives of the Curia in 19 and how they were achieved in the year under consideration. In order to ensure uniform and high-quality case-law, new instruments for legal units have been provided. There are about eight aspects of the account, and I would like to add a few of them. One of these important issues is the case law analysis group. [[15.20]] In this analysis group, there are practical questions of legitimate protection, and the reasons for rejecting the application have also been discussed in the President's exposé, the practice of court proceedings for janitorship, the nullity of the employment relationship. It should also be pointed out in these cases that the work of the analysis groups usually requires not only an inclusive world, but also external experts, among whom there are judges of the lower courts, representatives of other legal professions, as well as academics and academics. The other topic is the new Pp. the examination of practical questions arising from its application. Here, highly experienced judges with excellent knowledge of civil procedural law draw up guidelines on the possible interpretation of issues that arise. For example, the possibility of changing the application for renewal, the possibility of linking the lawsuit to change the relationship with the child's maintenance suit, the mandatory content of the information contained in the court order or the concept of a change in the action. Another topic is the question of interpretation of the law in the practical application of the new civil code. The Advisory Council set up in 2014 continued to address a number of legal interpretation issues in 2019 and published a resolution on a number of issues on the Curia's website, such as the requirement to write a declaration of rights, the right to compensation of the rightholder and the violation of the right to pre-empt. Dear Parliament, The Curia's main advisory system is also a priority in terms of staff conditions ensuring the effective performance of its basic tasks, in which the main consultants, usually from the world of science, have excellent expertise in a field of law and effectively assist the court in its work. The sixth topic: the report shows that in 2019 the internship programme was successfully continued in cooperation with the PhDs of Law Faculties and the Doctoral School of Public Administration at the National University of Public Service, which contributes to high quality work and supply. In order to ensure uniform application of the law, there are different forums: performance, different college meetings, case-law analysis groups. The Committee also highlighted from this criminal analysis group the establishment of a criminal database, the use of which could help criminal judges to standardise the case-law in respect of typical criminal offences. Dear Parliament, With a review of the statistics on the Court's turnover, it can be said that there is a significant reduction in the number of cases at all colleges. In almost all cases, the number of cases completed is, in some cases, significantly higher than the number of cases received. Finally, a sector considered to be specific has also been mentioned in more detail by the President, and I would like to mention the activities of the City Council of Curia on the issue of local government standard control, as the title on the agenda says. In 2019, the Curia received 40 cases under the local government standard control procedure, of which 26 were judicial initiatives, 12 were government official initiatives, one was the motion of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, and one was an individual's motion, which had to be rejected under the law. As in previous years, the proportion of decisions taken on the legality of local taxes was the highest in the reference year. However, it is to be welcomed that, in proportion to previous years, the number of decisions completed in the field of failure to draft a budget or discharge regulation is lower. In 2019, a failure to draft a discharge regulation and, once, a failure to establish a Financial Regulation came before the Curia. In the former case, the Curia authorised the Government Office to replace the discharge order and, in the latter case, called on the body of representatives to draft the Financial Regulation. Dear Parliament, In 2019 the Local Council of the Curia reviewed municipal regulations in land tax, construction tax and communal tax taxes in the context of the legalisation of local tax legislation. A large part of the motions have also been discussed by the President from the courts in the context of specific norm control, and in total, in 18 cases, he found three land and construction tax regulations to be illegal. The amendment of the Local Tax Act in force from 1 January 2017, which repealed the threefold requirement that the tax rate should be determined in line with local specificities, the local government's management requirements and the capacity of taxable persons to bear the burden, was an important change for the Council of Local Government. As from 1 January 2017, the type of tax base, the rate of tax, the tax exemption and the tax relief provided for in the Regulation can be established in such a way as to comply, in their entirety, with local specificities, with the management requirements of the municipality and with the capacity of taxable persons to bear the burden of a wide range of taxable persons. In 2019 five decisions were taken on the review of local municipal regulations on the legality of local construction regulations, laying down important principles in relation to the limits of the legislative powers of the municipalities. In the case of defaulted infringements, a new category compared to previous years was the failure to create regulations on municipal image regulations. If the local government fails to comply with its legislative obligation within the time limit set by the Curia, the Curia authorizes the head of the judicial supervisory body to establish the municipal decree on behalf of the local government. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the Curia performs its tasks effectively, thereby contributing to strengthening the trust of society in justice. In addition, the Curia does not only exercise its supreme duty of judgment, but, as an institution, it is also the place of the formation and consolidation of the law and the creator of the Hungarian legal tradition. Therefore, the report is supported by the Fidesz Group; the proposal for a resolution tabled by the chairman of the committee, I would ask the honourable Members to also support it. It was also a consensus before the committee, since it unanimously adopted the report by 10 votes in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr President Varga, We really are in a special situation here, because you are in a position to report on your predecessor's work, and your predecessor's work has been placed here on our table, and indeed, in the Justice Committee, it was President Darák, who represented you, and now you have to present here the activities of your predecessor and the activities of his predecessor's institution. So from this point of view, it's obviously not for you, it's not for your work, which is said here, primarily, but it's obviously for you, too, that from what you've said here, from any criticisms or suggestions that you can make, it's not for you, it's not for your work, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you. [[15.30]] You have started here, Mr President, with your report on how important you think judicial independence is, and have led it back to the perspective of the last 150 years, what traditions this has in Hungary and what history it has in Hungary, and how important the situation of judicial independence is. I think that I can agree perfectly with what you have said, and indeed we have a serious tradition in this area, and I think that one of the most fundamental criteria of a rule of law is that judicial independence prevails in that State or not; the government itself, the executive authority, wants to influence the work and activities of the courts, to influence the outcome of certain judicial decisions, and this is indeed a very, very important problem, and I think that we have really made a lot of progress in this area over the past 150 years. However, if Mr President has raised this problem, I would like to add a little shade to this question, because I came into Parliament in 2010 and I see that the government that has been running Hungary since then has taken very serious steps to try to influence judicial independence, because the power exercise in Orbán itself does not tolerate an institution that does not carry out its activities in the way that the Prime Minister expects it to do. We have obviously seen this in those points where the court has made a decision that is not appropriate to the government, in many ways in an unqualified manner close to the government qualified for the work of the courts, often viewed the application of the law in the Soviet Union in the work of the courts, and, moreover, they have taken appropriate steps to prevent cases that do not correspond to the government. These could be classified longer here, but the first step was forced retirement of judges, then the power did prove that I could do anything, if I wanted judges to fear government, government action, it was a certain, first intimidating step by the government against judicial independence. But this was also what you mentioned, and you felt completely differently, Mr President, in your speech, about setting up administrative courts, in which it was indeed objectionable, and I felt myself that we would be going back at least 150 years in time in the area of judicial independence, if this were to be established. After all, the Minister of Justice would have had powers that would have had a direct impact on the judges, even on the individual judges, and would thus indirectly have had an influence on the case-law. And indeed, the Parliament, if it had placed those responsibilities under the authority of the administrative courts, could have decided in the bulk of the most important questions the administrative courts, which could have been dependent on the Minister of Justice, if appropriate. It is a very, very serious problem, and it is already the 19th. In the first half of the century C.E., Europe had a very serious effort in every enlightened nation and state to put these kinds of government efforts in the background. This has been achieved, including in Hungary. Unfortunately, today's government does not see that it is value, but sees the opposite of that; it sees that the government should indeed influence the activities of the courts. I am very pleased that this has not been done at all in Hungary, and I am very confident that there will be no such possibility in the future. Speaking of courts, what are the most important aspects? It's time, it's time, it's reason. We have received statistics from Mr Darák's report, and from this it can be concluded that in a certain degree the number of cases has generally decreased, say, in relation to the last one or two years compared to 2017-18, there is only one exception, the administrative department of the College of Public Administration and Labour, where the number of cases has increased by nearly 10 percent. The decline is not so significant anyway, but in other areas there has been a decline in the case-martial process, which we can observe. This is clearly not the decision, but it is not the indicator that decides how timely the judgments are, because if you look at the number of pending cases rather than the number of pending cases, this should be clearly assessed positively, as the number of pending cases has decreased in practically all areas in 2019 compared to 2017-18. And that means that the court's work on timeliness has improved, because the file backlog has decreased significantly during this period, and I think that is one of the most important tasks, apart from timeliness and legitimacy. So obviously, when the judgment process accelerates, there is only one barrier: it can never be at the expense of justification, it can never be more slendrian, it can be worse expressed or it is bad judgments, only to be timely. At that time, we had many discussions with Tünde Hando about the presentation of the president of the OBH, who did not claim that this should be done differently, that timeliness should be at the expense of the foundation. But it seemed to me that, in this period of time, the courts, with the exception of the Curia, were obviously required by the OBH, rather than by the other courts, to require a continuous need of timeliness. But what we see now is that at the Mansion, otherwise, timeliness has improved in any way. It can also be concluded from this report that the Curia has set up its new medium-term institutional strategy and is set out in a document adopted in October 2019. This document sets out the objectives and the values to be achieved. The most important of these is the protection of the rule of law, which is in the first place. I fully agree with the idea expressed in 2019 and that it is indeed a court's duty to protect the rule of law. And indeed, at a time when the rule of law is most attacked by the government, when today's government in Hungary is valued in Europe, the United States and elsewhere in the world as the current government has been systematically seeking to eliminate the Hungarian rule of law for 11 years, this task is even more noble if the court tries to defend this rule of law. What I saw was that during his presidency, President Darák did this to the full. I am very confident that this will continue in the future, and there will be no change in that. The next point is the implementation of the principles of democratic power among the objectives. Again, what I said earlier is the same: we see the opposite of what we see from the government, and we very much hope that the courts will retain the value, and the Curia will retain the value that we have become accustomed to in recent years, decades, and we have received it from both the Curia and the courts. There was also a significant change in legislation that had to change things for the Mansion. So I quote Péter Darák: the most important strategic challenge in 2019 is the integration of the legal unit complaint procedure and the functioning of the Legal Unit Complaints Council between the Curia procedures and the Curia organisation system. The institutional analysis of previous decisions should be part of everyday judgment. It is certainly not the Curia's fault, since Parliament, as a legislative body, has made that decision, and obviously this decision has only the responsibility of the governing parties. When the governing parties say and constantly refer to the historical tradition of the last 100 years, 150 years, 200 years of historical development, how much we must preserve the traditions, the government is facing a completely traditional principle here, when instead of continental law, it starts the development of Hungarian law towards the Anglo-Saxon precedent system and tries to establish a transition between continental law and the precedent system in Hungary, which we disagree with, by the way, the Jobbik Hungary Movement as a conservative right-wing party. [[15.40]] But obviously the two-thirds can go through with it, and obviously the Mansion is bound by the law that the Parliament is creating. Why do we have a problem with this change? In this way, the Curia, we believe, can exert a strong influence on the work of lower court forums for the future, can practically influence it, and if the government can influence the Curia, then this effect will extend to the work of the other courts, thus enabling it to intervene in the work of the government and then indirectly and indirectly the courts. We are very confident that this will be rejected by the Curia, and we will not experience such a thing in the future as we have never experienced before, but we very much hope that it will not be again. In 2019 President Péter Darák ordered the setting up of the case-law analysis group by the new Pp. on grounds leading to or concerning the refusal of the application. Yes, it was a neurological point in 2019, because we couldn't help but notice that we were listening to complaints. We listened to complaints about the new Pp., whether on the part of judges, on the part of clients, or on the part of lawyers, because there were many such problems, for example, perhaps the most important one, this is the frequency of rejection of the action, when, indeed, lawyers working for several decades have struggled to submit the application, which was rejected, then re-submitted, re-submitted for another reason, and re-submitted for a third reason, and, indeed, a lawyer practicing 20-30 years ago felt that he was being crushed in the professional knowledge of the court when he made it appear to his clients in a series as if he didn't understand the law. Indeed, there has been an interplay between the legislator and the enforcer, between the courts and Parliament, who is responsible, whether the law is wrong or not. Obviously, it was very important for President Darák to set up this task force and issue it as a task to investigate it. We, for example, heard the President of the Bar Association on this subject in the Committee on Justice, who, I believe, for at least an hour and a half, classified the problems that the lawyer society is facing with regard to the new civil order and that they are also adversely affecting customers. Obviously, that is why it was necessary, and we were very pleased when the Ministry of Justice presented a change to the civil procedure in the second half of 2020, in which this legislation became clear, but in 2019 it was still very timely to set up this working group for this task. Obviously, if the legislation was wrong, it was not possible to carry out a good practice, so there was a flood of customer-lawyer complaints, and the second-degree courts couldn't really set a course, since lawyers didn't usually appeal for rejection, but re-submitted it, because it was much faster in general, and it was obviously in the interest of customers to get their rights and exercise their rights sooner. The Curia has also set out its professional objectives in 2019. Ensuring uniform and high-quality case-law and exploiting the potential of new legal unit instruments; reviewing the Curia's legal unit acts in the second place; examining the issues of interpretation of the law arising from the application of the new civil order; exploring the issues of interpretation arising from the application of the new civil code; identifying the problems of application of the law relating to the registration of civil society organisations; sixth and very important; returning to this the problems related to foreign exchange loan agreements; continuing the internship programme; and eighth building the main advisory system. Foreign exchange loan agreements. I think this is one of the most neural points of the last decade. We know that there have been many problems with bad regulation. Here in Parliament, we have started to point out to each other between the left and the current government who is responsible for foreign exchange loans. I think that in the last ten years, the task was not to find the guilty on this issue. I think that the left was equally involved, the left in power before 2010 and the Fidesz, that this situation could develop and that they allowed it to develop, but the most important problem was that there was no good solution in the last ten years. The Orbán government has been constantly communicating that they have solved the problem of foreign exchange creditors, which many have believed, but only those affected by this, because they know very well that their problem is not solved. It was very important for the Curia to try to find a solution, and obviously it wasn't his job, and he couldn't find the solution, but the legislator should have found the solution in this regard. Unfortunately, we have found that the Fidesz-KDNP administration was clearly on the side of the banks in this respect, not on the side of Hungarian citizens, as has often been on the side of the banks, and was looking at their interests when it came to the legislation on foreign exchange lenders. This has led to the fact that, even today, we have not reached a resting point in this area, the problems are ongoing, and the evictions are still ongoing. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, talks about these problems every day here in Parliament; he is the one who is constantly attending evictions, who is trying to help the families who have remained homeless, tries to provide legal help and other help to prevent evictions, but unfortunately we have not seen them from the government side. We see that the Curia has tried to solve this in its own toolbox, as the consultative body itself has met only three times in 2019. At its first meeting, he held his first meeting on national judicial practices on the unfairness of contract clauses relating to exchange rate risks, the second on the grounds of unfairness of contract clauses on exchange rate risks, and the third on the effect of the debtor's withdrawal or termination. Then there is also a problem that this consultative body gives guidelines, but these guidelines are not binding on anyone. The other question is that it had beneficial effects. He could not make a real difference, this is primarily legislative failure or deliberateness, so let each of you decide for yourself what you have experienced. Based on all this, I see that the Curia tried to do everything in 2019 that could be done within its remit and competence. We cannot really criticise the work of the Curia for the year 2019. I can only express my hope that the Curia will preserve the independence, the impartiality that we have become accustomed to it over the past decades, and I wish to do so to all the judges of the Curia, all the colleagues and the Presidents of the Curia, good work and good health in this area, and I wish that the work of the Curia will continue in this way, as has already been done. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2021-02-16-100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-101	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, once again, to welcome Dr. Zs. Varga. Mr. András, the President of the Curia, and my keynote speech shall begin with the Latin quote that the former Palace of Justice, after the communist takeover, was a communist institute, last I understand, an Ethnographic Museum, and now we trust that after a Vargabe it will once again be the Palace of Justice of its facade of the Communists, and they have written the inscription "Iustitia est regnorum". Today, we could say that the law is the cornerstone of the countries. It bothered or irritated the Communists, so, as we know, it was imprinted and engraved. But the facts are stubborn, and even though they are engraved, the law is still the cornerstone of the countries. And the law assumes justice. And justice requires that everyone receive his right. Ladies and Gentlemen, The question is that court judgments correspond to this attribute. The answer is not simple yes or no. The answer is more complicated than that, because the majority of judges did well, but obviously not all judges and not all cases. But in this matter, it is not the average, but the weakest link. Based on this, it can be said that the courts have generally done their job well, but the devil hides in detail. Such a diabolical detail is, for example, the spirit of judges and their change in the negative direction. This should be examined by President Kuria for the future. For example, it would be worth considering the impact that the BSS Triumvirate has on the spirit of judges and thus the judicial case-law: the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros Triumvirate or civil society organisations financed from abroad. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] It seems to me that the sensitizing effect on Christian values is quite intense. I find it outrageous to develop a judicial attitude, which, as a result of sensitivity, is the basis of which Christian symbols in our country and, thus, Christians are free to be reproached, because it is, as it were, a funny joke. The reality is, this isn't a joke. I also do not accept, as a result of sensitivity, the judicial attitude towards bowing to the right to freedom of religion and the right to human dignity before freedom of expression. Our Fundamental Law is in reverse because it says that the exercise of freedom of expression should not be aimed at violating the dignity of religious communities, the Ptk. and confirming this, he states that human dignity and the personality rights arising from it must be respected by all. Ladies and Gentlemen, We need to see that György Soros, through the Open Society Foundations, supports the reform of justice around the world by billions. It is therefore legitimate to ask whether judgments given by judges of sensitive spirit have the targeted social impact that would be justified on the basis of the Fundamental Law and the relevant laws, for, say, the protection of religious communities. The obvious answer is no. The question of the impact of foreign-funded civil society organisations on the formation of judicial practice should therefore be examined in particular. It should also be examined that the Curia and the OBH held sensitive training sessions for judges without consulting them. The way I see it, these sensitive trainings are dangerous because they threaten judicial independence, the integrity of which should be maintained. What's the court's oath? I accept that the matters entrusted to me are subject to a fair trial, impartially, conscientiously, only in accordance with the law, driven by justice and fairness in the pursuit of my profession. I think it is important that judges can make their judgments according to their judicial oath only on the basis of their best professional convictions and their own conscience. I see that these sensitizing trainings pose a serious risk to judicial independence, because what NGOs financed from abroad call knowledge sharing is actually a serious attempt to influence. Attempted influence, because a new role for sensitive judges involves, where appropriate, a judgment that goes against social consensus. Ladies and Gentlemen, Fidesz-KDNP stands for independent justice. Dear Zs. Varga President Andrew, you can count on us for freedom. The KDNP faction supports the activities of the Curia in 2019 in the field of legal unity and local government standard control, B/11035. 1st report, as well as H/13952. A proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-102	I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Just as it has become clear from Mr. President's leader and expozee, and taking into account the content, this is a very diverse account, and indeed it is noted by President Darák, and it is linked to his period, your predecessor, so it is an interesting genre. There are genres in the House anyway, since there are many opinions on a proposal that may not be in line with the literal text of the report, which is surprising at first sight, because, as has been said, unanimously supported by the Justice Committee, yet politics is such, but you will obviously see over the years that there are many different views and sometimes quite distant approaches to be heard. I think that this was partly a good example of my fellow Member Vejkey's comments. I think I've been trying to remember that sophisticatedly. The report, as my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre said, is multifaceted, substantively eligible, as well as the work he has done in 19 Curia. This is what the Judicial Committee's position may be about. At the same time, it is necessary to point out some points that might have been more pronounced or could have had a meaningful role in this report. [[16.00]] I am doing this, of course, even if the President said that he did not want to touch this text in substance, I think it is understandable, and perhaps we will see his approach in the coming years. Obviously, politicians and representatives are sitting here, so it is not surprising that this type of approach exists in relation to the year 2019, as there were two general elections this year, the European Parliament elections and the municipal elections, for which numerous decisions have been made at the Curia. Let me note, however, that the reflection on these decisions is lacking in this report. Besides, the report does not pay much attention to the issues related to the electoral procedure, although the Curia has discussed a significant number of dozens of cases. Obviously, I'm interested in several cases of this, I've raised a few of these as well as, of course, my faction, the MSZP fraction itself. Although the report refers to the summaries of the findings of the case-law analysis groups in this respect, the report precisely indicates the Internet contact details that are relevant. However, the election-related practice material here was also produced in 2018, which obviously does not include the results of the decisions taken at the elections in 2019. Perhaps that is why I should mention some specific issues on which it is important to clarify certain interpretation issues. In addition, the President has experience in these matters, since as a constitutional judge he has also discussed a number of cases relating to elections, and the practice of electoral affairs is obviously not unknown to him. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The first case concerns the independence of public bodies. On 12 September 2019, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, at a government briefing, named Gergely Karácsony, who was still nominated, as unfit, and called the agreement between the government and István Tarlós, concerning the financing of the capital, a political agreement. I note here that, by the way, during the morning and even in the early afternoon, we had a long debate on another proposal, which specifically covered municipal funding and the political aspects of these. In this case, two proceedings were initiated, both on the Curia's table. Each of these submissions drew attention to the fact that Gergely Gulyás is present in the government brief as a minister representing the government and not as a politician campaigning for Fidesz-KDNP. It is the duty of a minister on government information to disclose facts and not to present the current campaign program of the party behind the government, especially during an election period. Unfortunately, in both cases, the Curia has decided against the submissions. In this respect, the Curia points out that the Fundamental Law does not provide for the neutrality of certain public bodies in the electoral procedure and that ministers cannot be examined in the performance of their duties from an equal opportunity point of view during the electoral procedure. This is, in my view, an extremely objectionable practice, especially if it is used in future elections by public bodies for campaigning. Let me say that I particularly emphasise this question because in 2022 there will be a parliamentary election, and I think it is very important that you have your opinion on this issue. How does the President appreciate these decisions? In your opinion, are there public bodies whose independence cannot be expected during the electoral procedure? If so, what are these? It is also an important issue as to how the independence of public bodies is linked to the rule of law, according to the President, and how the political bias of public bodies could violate the rule of law. Another comment, obviously on this subject, is perhaps even more specific issues, and this is campaign activity that violates equal opportunities in the electoral process. Several public and non-state actors violated the electoral procedure law in 2019 by engaging in illegal campaign activities. All of these infringements had in common the fact that this was done in favour of Fidesz-KDNP. I'd like to take some of these here as an example. For example, the municipal paper of Józsefváros, then still led by fideszes, is an earlier case that campaigned against the law in favour of Máté Kocsis. Among non-state actors, it is worth pointing out that TV2 was condemned, which was the only one presenting the Fidesz-KDNP signature collection, and was therefore illegal. These are systemic problems. We see that a number of other newspapers, programmes and publications can be mentioned in this circle, where the campaign activities in Hungary, which have been justified by a judicial decision, have been carried out for the benefit of today's governing parties. As I mentioned, this was also a systemic phenomenon in these cases during the parliamentary elections held in 2018. This is probably why the majority of the Parliament's Fidesz-KDNP amended the electoral procedure law in such a way that it is more difficult to combat such violations. However, these are just examples of the fact that the current fine system is not capable of deterring these bodies from committing the infringement. This has also been highlighted in a 2018 OSCE report that the borders between the state and the ruling parties have become blurry. There was no equal chance for voters to enter the elections, and under such circumstances fair competition could not be guaranteed during the elections. In my view, it is not possible to have a clean choice in accordance with the rule of law criteria, it is definitely difficult and difficult to do so. In view of the above, it is important to clarify what the President thinks can be done to ensure that the infringements mentioned above cannot occur or that action against them is more effective. Has the Curia continued its case-law analysis in this regard? Do you plan to consciously develop your practice in this regard? Finally, I would like to draw attention to a topic which is only partly related to an election procedure, and these are the decisions of the Constitutional Court establishing a legislative obligation and the situation in this regard. In one of these decisions, the Constitutional Court found that there was a failure to comply with the basic law because the rules on the posting of electoral posters are arbitrary, which violate the rights of the electoral participants. The other decision concerned the protection of those entitled to invalidity benefit, in which it stated that Parliament had carried out a failure to fulfil its legislative function arising from an international contract when it did not establish rules that would allow the amount of benefit to be taken into account when determining the actual physical state improvement or the amount of invalidity pension fixed before 1 January 2012. That's two cases, obviously a little far from the report. However, I would like to point out that in these cases the majority of Parliament's pro-government has not rushed to settle these issues in a legislative way. In both cases, the legislative deadline set by the Constitutional Court expired in 2019. In March 2020, several of our Members wrote letters to Mr Péter Darák, the former President of the Curia, asking about the consequences of the missed deadline. In the opinion of the President of the Curia at that time, and I would like to quote this precisely, literally here:. The reassuring solution to the problems raised in both areas would be the creation by Parliament of the legislation currently lacking. So that's what the predecessor would have thought to be a comforting solution. Do you agree with the words of your predecessor? That's what I'd like to ask. Or do you think it is a problem that Parliament has been delaying the legislation required by the Constitutional Court for two years? Do you think it could be a legal problem for the Curia to decide on matters which are to be dealt with by the Constitutional Court but which have not been established? [[16.10]] With all of this, since I have obviously referred to cases that are only partially included in the accounts, or parts of them that I think are missing, I would like to thank President Darák again for the work that he has done on this occasion. I think that the Justice Committee's decision involves recognition of his work and, like those before me, I think that we should thank his colleagues, the employees and judges of the Curia, for their work. I very much hope that the work that has been started in recent years, I appreciate that more or less every time you have found agreement in this House, will continue in the coming years. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-02-16-104	Good afternoon. We'll get back to work. The leading speaker of the Democratic Coalition, Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk, is next. You have the floor, please.
u2021-02-16-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Like many of my speakers, I have to start with the particular situation where we have a 2019 report before us, and we are discussing or discussing the acceptance of it, perhaps, while in the meantime the person who made this report as the main responsible person is no longer here in the walls of the House, he did not present it, but has become his successor. And indeed, the difference between the two is important, at least in any case for the Democratic Coalition, but I also said that in the committee section, because our attitude to the 2019 report is quite different from that of Zs Varga. Mr. Andras, President of the Curia. I'd like to look at both separately, I don't think it's going to surprise you either. Like those who spoke before me, I can only praise this account. This report is an accurate, precise view of what happened in 2019, and although we also had opinions at the Commission stage for one or another of the professional proposals, my comment is, in fact, the whole is as round as it is, and while in many cases we have a feeling that perhaps more could have been done, things could have been done better, but the report itself, and the picture that comes out of it, is a positive one, it is a good picture to be supported, and therefore I voted in favour of it at the committee meeting, like all my fellow Members. At the same time, we need to talk about the political situation in which we are in this country after ten years, because it is precisely the Fidesz system that we are operating in, that the last ten years have been about how the government, the Fidesz, has tried to break down those institutions, the institutions that control executive power, in some ways, which have limited its omnipotence, and one of the tools of this process that we have seen in so many places, that it has replaced the leaders of these authorities, offices, independent institutions that are loyal to it, is much easier for it to say so, and perhaps I am also within the limits of litigation, so that people who are much more inclined to confess what government philosophy is currently saying. And that's what happened with the Curia, let's just say it out loud. President Péter Darák, after eight or nine years of Presidentialization in Curia, I think, Zs Varga. András was not supported by DK, he did not vote for it, he did not vote for it now, he would not vote for it if it were to take place; we think that his legal career or rather I say that he is not a career, because we are talking about a man whose judicial experience I did not understand, and then they say that in the Constitutional Court he dealt with matters such as if he had been a judge, a judicial experience; we know that he did not, or that as Peter Polt's deputy for six years, maybe for seven years, he worked in a system in which... and in an hour or two, Peter Polt will be here, and I will also say the same sentences to him; so where the prosecution works practically as an executive of the government, while this would not be his role as a deputy of constitutional law, at least for now; so that we cannot accept the point that you are obviously claiming that the Curia will remain independent of the political influence, independent of Fidesz and the government. I can't accept it either, well, a ten minutes ago before us, Congressman Vejkey said and said practically a timetable, so the President of the Curia almost posted in a live word a plan of action on what the President of the Curia should do to judges: there should be no sensitivity or the spirit of the judges should be examined, Mr Vejkey said literally, so here he was given the instructions on how to act. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey intervenes.]] I will be very curious to see how many and what news will be about this in the coming months, that, no, the Curia is really doing this, it will eliminate, say, sensitive training courses for judges and how it will end relations with civil society organisations that perform them. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Decepticon! Decepticon!]] Civil relations, like I said. So, one word, like a hundred, we live in this country, ladies and gentlemen, we know exactly what is going on, we know exactly what is going on, and we can puppet it here at the level of words, that everything is going well and well, but no, there is a deterioration in the situation of the Curia. The Curia lost its independence about two months ago, and this is a terrible regrettable fact, a terrible problem, and it can have a long-term, far-reaching effect. In relation to this report, I would have two semi-professional, semi-technical, and virtually everyday, comments that have been raised in my mind as a matter of fact, while I have now re-read the report. One is that the report highlights the judgment, the judgment of the Mansion, when a teacher is dismissed on the basis of a Facebook entry, and the question arises that this is legal, in Hungarian, as to the extent to which freedom of expression extends, and whether the posting of his opinion in his private life on Facebook is a sufficient reason to fire him, if I understand correctly, that is exactly what happened in this case. This raised the question of what I would ask the President of the Curia that the last few months have been about Hungarian public life, that he would like to limit and regulate Facebook, either by Fidesz or by the government, or even by one of Viktor Orbán's advisors, he said that the Internet should be closed, right, László Földi, and I would be interested to know that the government was looking for the authorities and experts of the Curia in connection with Facebook regulation, asking for his opinion, there was this type of consultation, and there was any prior professional background work on this. 'Cause I would think it would be our business, too, to hear that if something like this really happened, especially not going into the details, although there would be room for a sensible debate that has come up in several countries. We see various international solutions, proposals, and of course the situation is complicated by the fact that these are private companies, social media companies, which have their own rules, which in principle provides for what happens if one does not accept it or does not act as they accepted when they entered. And, of course, there is a growing stream of freedom of expression, so let us say, your predecessor, Péter Darák, said in a previous debate that it is an international trend within the Union, that freedom of expression is being judged more widely, so comments, political statements that are now being made as opinions at EU level and now in Hungary, which may be thought by ordinary people, but this is a factual lie, but it is still a freedom of expression. [[16.20]] One word, like a hundred, if we look at this Facebook question in this coordinate system, then I would be interested to know that the Curia has expressed its professional opinion on this at any internal discussion, and has assessed its opinion. My other comment of this type, which deals with everyday life a little bit, is that although the report says that there is a decrease in the number of lawsuits and the rate of rates, I think in the report, which goes beyond two years in the first instance, I think; that is to say, summa summarum is given earlier sentences, or at least a decrease in the number of cases that stretch away than the strudel. I do not doubt that this statistics are real, I believe that this is true, and that is welcome, and that is good, but at the same time I would be interested in the fact that the Mansion has a further task of making this even better, even better. Because the statistics may show a good and improved trend, but you may also have encountered what I encounter in our own affairs or in the affairs of citizens turning to us, that the complaint that it takes a long, long time for a judgment to take. So, even so, people still spend a lot of time judging their cases. I would like to highlight a group of cases, which we now call this, which is particularly problematic, the question of press litigation, because the accusations and lies in the media and publicly heard can cause great harm, and obviously the victim's interest is now called an insult, so that he can rebut it as soon as possible, and if he can force it by judicial means, he can be born as soon as possible, so that the time between the two will be as short as possible. Compared to this, I can say that DK's politicians regularly launch press trials, first we ask for correction, then we start a press trial, and then we win 95 percent of them, thank God, but one problem is that there is a year and a half between the two, and in the meantime, the original accusation is already in the ears, the damage has already occurred, and a year and a half after what happened, a judgment that even condemns the case is a little bit of beauty. Let me give you a concrete example, right, the election will come, and there will be many such situations: in the autumn of 2019 László Imre DK candidate for mayor Budapest XI. In his district, TV2 accused him of being sexually harassed, as well as a lady with a diced eye and a changed voice. Of course, at that moment, we took every legal step to fight the lie. That was about a week before the election. After that, of course, all right-wing and government media took over, blared, said it every hour on the news. Imre László, I report that you have won every lawsuit, twenty-something lawsuits on every level, thank God. It only took a year and two months. We are very fortunate that this did not affect the outcome of the election, Imre László was successfully elected mayor. But we are not sure that it will always be the same result, and I will put it as a question to the President of the Curia in cases of this kind, even in the spring, could it not be possible to find a solution, a further acceleration, let us call it, in the system, which will lead to such cases, when there is clearly a serious interest in getting a judgment as soon as possible, that judgment can really be delivered very quickly? Finally, I would also like to thank President Darák for his work, for this report and for what he has done for the Mansion and the judges. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[A moment's pause.]] The speeches by the speakers announced in advance will follow. First, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, can give her an opinion. I hesitated because from here, on the presidential pulpit, what you all see is not seen in a particular way, for example, the place of the congresswoman, so I did not see her coming. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea enters the speaker's stand.]] But he's here, so respectfully.
u2021-02-16-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear President of the Curia, It always gives a great deal of joy to a lawyer when we have to talk about the annual accounts of the Curia, and in this way all of us who sit in Parliament as lawyers can somehow think a little back into our profession and speak our words to others. I am pleased that when Mr President presented in his report the resolution of the Curia in 2019, when the task force had made a statement in principle regarding the legal consequences of the nullity of contracts, he looked at me; which is a great pleasure for me because he knows my person in some way as the enforcer of such contracts. [[Dr. Varga Zs. András nodds.]] And it certainly means great pride for me, and thank you for your eyes. It is as if we were talking because in the case of the Curia report, I would like to talk exclusively about the assessment of foreign exchange loans and foreign exchange loans in the court system, also highlighting that what is past, a year in 2019, cannot be changed, unless in any way certain processes were not in line with expectations in that year, can be improved, but I think that in Parliament's comments we should rather try to put down the pledge of a safe and good future on any issue. In 2011, I carried out a study when I discovered this form of contract at all, and I saw many such people before me. Here is my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpathian, who has already tried to represent the interests of these people as a politician, as a Member of Parliament. We marveled at this abnormality, which comes from these contracts, and in my first emotion, I wrote a 52-page paper, simply for no other reason, because I knew precisely that if the court system, the judges, had been entrusted with such a case, the fate of a million 200 thousand contracts, because of the deficiency that the judges could not meet in their work, they might not be able to pass judgment that is not in accordance with the truth or the law. It was also important for me not to leave the government to the court system to solve this type of case, because 1 million 200 thousand contracts cannot be brought to court, even if certain types of contracts of certain institutions had been brought before the court, it would have generated hundreds or even thousands of cases. So it was my intention that all the arguments that could be put forward at the first moment because of the faulty nature of these contracts should be taken over by the government and, in line with these principles, by legislation, prevent the demands of banks. I couldn't find a hearing then, probably largely because of professional chauvinism, because a small one-time lawyer comes along to tell the government or the court system which rules of the Civil Code are those which, if applied, the debtors cannot be looted and the economic balance of the contracts is restored. It didn't work, but as long as we live, we hope, it came in 2019, and although in previous years I myself represented a number of cases which served to declare the nullity of foreign exchange credit contracts, I did get a number of judgments in which the courts did not share my position. [[16.30]] With this sad past, I arrived in Parliament in May 2018 and only hoped that someday a world would come in the lives of the courts when they realized that the principles they had followed were not right. Then what happened? The European Court of Justice has made countless decisions in cases brought before them by the jurisdictions of different countries, various judges have asked their questions in their respective trials, and on the basis of the existing EU directives, such as the 1983 Directive, the European Court of Justice has set out the criteria on how these contracts should be assessed, interpreted and dealt with by judges in particular and primarily with the provisions of those contracts aimed at risking exchange rates. I must say, and this certainly praises the judicial system, I think, even if I cannot say this about previous decisions, that from 2019 we will be able to find those judgments which show exactly the principles that they are adopting in their decisions, and that are precisely the principles that we have been talking about for many years. If I may, Mr President, I would like to highlight a few courts positively simply in order to show both my fellow Members and you and the general public that we have achieved the goal of breaking the wall that is now breaking down the myth that the validity of foreign exchange credit contracts cannot be debated. We broke through the wall to accept judges, that, indeed, whether you like it or not, in a contractual arrangement, if the other party does not know what kind of commitment it is actually undertaking, cannot recognise the unlimited extent of the obligation, then the level must be limited and cannot be expected to exceed what the debtor has undertaken. In the case of a contract concluded by K&H Pannon lease on 7 December 2020, the Budapest Surrounding Court stated that the condition in the contract and the terms of the business is that the risk of exchange rate changes must be borne by the client is unfair, so it is null and void. What did the court say? because it was not clear what economic consequences the debtor would have in the event of a exchange rate change. You can't imagine, Mr President, what a pleasure it was for me to read this sentence, because in 2011, I wrote the same sentence. But at the time, we had this thing where we didn't want him to tell us, and then we decided to settle these cases. But we lawyers know that these are the most fundamental civil rights principles. It doesn't take a great scientist to apply it. On 18 November 2020, the Metropolitan Court of Justice stated that the contract concluded by AXA Bank for the provision of the foreign exchange loan was invalid because their information on exchange rate risk was, in fact, a unilateral commitment of the debtors and there was no information on what the actual rate could be. My written words rang back. On 24 September 2020, the Metropolitan Court stated that Raiffeisen's car lease contract was invalid, because the individual part does not even indicate the amount of the loan granted in HUF; it can only be concluded from a certain point of the GTC what the amount of the loan is. However, without a reciprocal definition, a contract cannot be called a loan contract. Imagine, fellow Members, such contracts did not even include the amount of the loan, and believe me, I have represented parties to all the institutions I am talking about earlier, and indeed the judges have been very sleek and have not accepted these arguments. I must point out, Mr President, that the Kecskemét District Court and the Kecskemét Tribunal, who were courageous and who said what we have also asked for for years: if a THM does not correspond to the cost package that is expected of the client and the bank cannot prove what this THM was made up of, then it should be considered that it has not been defined, because the client must assess the obligation that THM shows to him each year. It was also stated that the information does not show that there is a realistic chance of a significant change in the exchange rate of the forint/CHF in the negative direction, which in the event of which the repayment is increased without limitation, and the risk of this is borne solely by the debtor, and the information referred to the weakening of the forint as an opportunity and not as a threat. Imagine, Mr President, that the first was the Kecskemét Tribunal, who has noticed what we have said for years, that the change in the ratio between forint weakening and two currencies is not the same. The forint may weaken even if the exchange rate against another currency does not change. The Kecskemét Tribunal was so brave to say that as long as the contract only says that the forint may weaken, it does not mean that the exchange rate between the two currencies will also change, and thus it is impossible for a client to determine the burden on him. Then, on 7 September 2020, the Budapest Surrounding Court said that, in respect of a UCB loan, the contract only provides that the risks are borne by the debtors, but there is only one word about the risk. However, these contracts have already been examined by a large number of courts. Then, of course, it further discusses that although information on exchange rate risk has been provided, its contents cannot be established and there is no indication that the instalments may increase. Then there is another courageous court, the Egri District Court, which said on 3 December 2020 that the contractual clause cannot be accepted as transparent if the consumer, after interpreting the contract terms in several separate instruments, only knows what price risk he is in fact and what effect it has on the payment obligation. It is not possible to review the relationship with an exchange rate risk because of its structural design, by seeking and interpreting clauses in different locations, and the debtor cannot be put in such a position. For example, on 21 October 2020 the Metropolitan Court of Justice, when it stated that it was invalid, finally said that, if the direction and extent of the exchange rate change could not be foreseen by the financial institution itself, the consumer could not have known that, i.e. neither party could have expected an event causing a high exchange rate change of force majeure, and after neither the bank nor the client could have expected such a huge change, so that the unlimited exchange rate risk could not be charged to either client. In 2012, when perhaps the President of the Banking Association or one of the majors said that, but please, the banking sector did not expect a serious exchange rate change, either, that we could have informed the debtors about this, I told them in countless press releases that at that time I should have told the government that, but please, if you professional organizations hadn't been expecting it, then how would the debtors have expected it. How can a simple debtor expect what will happen? Not to mention, Mr President, in my 11th work, I also presented for 30 years the proportion of exchange rate changes, Hungarian inflation and rising incomes to each other. I have shown that if that trend had taken place in the next 20 years, the economic burden of people would not have increased even at such an increase in exchange rates, because wages and inflation would have followed the exchange rate movement. But there have been opposite effects, and that is why this huge economic crisis has taken place. With great respect, I would ask Mr President, as a new President, that, returning to their case-law for a few years, you examine the cases where today a favourable decision has been made for debtors, but the exact same claims of the same treaties were judged in the opposite way in the years before, and, in accordance with the principles of unity of law, somehow find a solution to enable debtors who had only one misfortune to recover their situation, that they were brought to justice too early. In contrast to those who were fortunately able to receive the first and second degree judgments after 2019, when the courts already share the principles previously expressed, they find a way to achieve that only those who have taken an early step or wished to settle this precarious situation with a judgment should not suffer a huge disadvantage because the principle of equal treatment, the legal unity of the courts' judgments, means social trust and security. [[16.40]] If I may, Mr President, I would like to share with you a few thoughts about my place in the spirit of local rule. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-02-16-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, There will be two-minute speeches, first of which is Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Imre Vejkey, Deputy Head of the Group, made me speak and press a two-minute button, as I was a little shocked when he spoke about the change in the spirit of the judges in the negative direction, the impact of the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros Triumvirate on the courts and sensitization. Suddenly, the Orwell novel came to my mind that the Fidesz-KDNP was going to want to set up a thought police, which would require thought police to look at the judges' thoughts in order to prevent them from changing in a negative direction. Well, it's amazing how they want to interfere with this activity. Of course, with two-thirds uncontrolled legislation, there is obviously much they can do. And if I have already spoken in my speech as the lead speaker about, for example, the invaluable tone of criticism of individual court judgments, I have found a statement by Tamás Deutsch, MEP of Fidesz, on the end of September 2020 in which he commented on the judgment in the case of Béla Kovács. In short, he called the court's judgment a net treason. The Russians are already in court. He wrote it in his Facebook post. Literally, I also quote the scientific-fantastic conspiracy theory of libertarians, which is what he is talking about in connection with the verdict. Well, that's about what we're seeing, that's the attitude, and now the thought police aren't far from you. Shocking! Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-110	Thank you. KDNP representative, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, will be here in two minutes. Here.
u2021-02-16-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wasn't planning on commenting, my colleague from DK inspired me to speak, as DK's memory seems to be very short. In order to attack the new President-elect politically, Darák praised Peter for his work, he declared his work accuracy, precise, fair. Well, when Peter Darák was elected here at the National Assembly, DK said that he was incompetent, politically biased, they wouldn't get their hands dirty by his election. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] Well, times are changing fast, Congressman, that was your opinion. It shows that you do not judge the leaders of the independent court system on a professional basis, but merely to make it a subject of your political attacks and your political profit on which you can grind your language. That wasn't the only problem with your comment. Let's get one more thing straight. Fake civilians financed from abroad, various political and activist organizations funded from abroad, do such sensitivity, and otherwise, I do not agree with Csaba Gyüre that a politician cannot criticize the decision of the court. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: The question is, in what tone!]] I think everyone must respect the decision of the court, everyone must abide by the decision of the court, but it is a political opinion that Jobbik has lived with before, when it has not yet tried to join the Balliberal side, that it is possible to criticise and disagree with the decision of the court. Nevertheless, it must be implemented, I think it is the basis of the rule of law, but it is possible to give a political opinion on a judgment, in my opinion. And then, for the sake of fairness, the congressman spoke of discrediting articles and other things like that. I would ask you to make this statement at DK's next press conference on the political rags edited and supervised by DK's press department, so that they do not write articles that are busy with discrediting Fidesz-KDNP politicians and their families. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2021-02-16-112	Thank you. Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2021-02-16-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Speaking of quotes, I was inspired by Csaba Gyure's comment. I'd like to quote you, Congressman, I'm sure you'll find out who said these things: It should have been legal by now, at least in the rule of law, where the court can do its work independently of the government. The red tape lawsuit in the light of outrageous court decisions... and I could list it more. You remember who said that, don't you? They were all Jobbikos: your coalition candidate, László Bíró, then Peter James and Balázs Ander. Congratulations! [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-114	Congressman László Varga, MSZP!
u2021-02-16-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Before me, my colleague Nacsa addressed what he had to say to my fellow Member in Sebian-Petrovsk. It is not my place to protect him, but I would like to conclude one thing, which I believe my fellow Member in DK has bound up what he has to say. His words didn't contradict what you said. So there are phenomena, and there are personal decisions about which opposition representatives are disappointed positively, but this is very, very rare, very rare. By the way, I think that, although it was not uniform at the time, in which you quoted it, President Peter Darák's view of the opposition benches, later on, I think I can say this on behalf of all of us, with his work or his personal attitude, also to those who doubted what his activities would be like, he caused a positive disappointment. I wish for all of us to have many such decisions before the Parliament. The situation, however, if not unprecedented or not unique, is the decision about his person here in Parliament, but it is certainly very, very rare. So I think it's that, at the end of someone's career, we evaluate their activities in a specific position in a few sentences, in a few minutes, and it's more positive than we expected when they were appointed, otherwise it's a completely normal thing. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-116	Dear Parliament, We will now return to the speeches by Members. As a representative asking for a normal word, Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm may come. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to talk about a rather specific situation in the framework of the local government standard control in the second re-view of my speech, especially given that during the period of the outbreak of the Crown Virus, the government has issued government decrees on the basis of a mandate which could not have been made under the provisions of the Fundamental Law and the relevant laws. The report on the Kurian practice in the field of local government standard control in 2019 is acceptable to me, given that they have sought to enforce all the principles that have been required to comply with the Fundamental Law on the one hand and other sectoral laws on the other hand in the local government work. It is likely that within a certain period of time the cases in which the Government's decree that local taxes cannot be introduced or that existing taxes will increase, I believe, as a result of the courageous activity of certain municipalities, will rise to the level of the courts, with the work of government offices. If I may, Mr President, simply because we speak in the benches of Members of Parliament from hour to hour in the interests of the local governments and in order to respect the rights of the local authorities, and it was extremely painful that, within the framework of defence, the government thought that such a decision could be taken. I myself encouraged a number of municipalities to exercise their rights under the law to not accept this. In order to be able to carry out the 21 tasks contained in the municipal law, they do feel free to make their municipal decrees; just because it would be my pleasure to do so, if the government offices were to test these regulations, let us at least see what the independent court says about this. Therefore, with great respect, Mr President, if I may, I would like to draw the attention, not primarily to you, but to my fellow Members, the Parliament as a whole, to the legal environment surrounding this issue, for example, which is likely to come before a council of the Curia soon. [[16.50]] According to Article B of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, it is an independent and democratic rule of law, and the source of public power is the people, and the people exercise their power through elected representatives, and at the same time it is based on the principle of power-sharing. The Fundamental Law also lays down that everyone is responsible for himself, according to his abilities and opportunities, to contribute to the performance of public and Community tasks. Since the Fundamental Law is the basis of Hungary's legal system and the Fundamental Law and the law are binding on everyone, no measure can therefore be contrary to the Fundamental Law. Article T of the Fundamental Law states that a generally binding rule of conduct may be laid down by law established by the Fundamental Law and by the competent body designated by the Fundamental Law, published in the Official Journal. The Fundamental Law, of course, considers the municipal decree to be a law. Since, under the Fundamental Law, the law cannot be contrary to the Fundamental Law, it is therefore quite clear that the establishment of a municipal decree and the establishment of a legal standard for the needs of the community, even in a special legal order, cannot be prohibited by any higher legislation. However, Article I of the Fundamental Law also states that Hungary recognises the fundamental not only individual but also Community rights. Article 31 of the Fundamental Law on Local Government emphasises that local affairs and the exercise of local public authority are carried out in the local government. The Fundamental Law clearly states that the local government independently manages, independently manages, and decides on the type of local taxes, and the extent of this is exercised by the representative body of the local government The Fundamental Law defines the emergency situation in Article 53 and gives the government the opportunity to introduce exceptional measures in the event of an emergency, i.e. any government measure which is not intended to create an emergency response, is not government regulation on the basis of an emergency. Otherwise, in a special legal order, as provided for in Article 54 of the Fundamental Law, the application of the Fundamental Law cannot be suspended. Article 2 of the Legislative Act. §2 of the Act states that when drafting legislation, it is necessary to ensure that the legislation complies with the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law and is in line with the unity of the legal system. It should also be ensured under the legislative law that the legislation does not unduly contain provisions which are not necessarily necessary to achieve the regulatory objective. And the law on local governments guarantees that local self-government is the right of the community of local and county voters, in which the sense of civic responsibility is enforced, to develop creative cooperation within local communities. Local self-government implements local public will, local public affairs are essentially linked to the provision of public services to the general public and to the creation of organisational, personal and material conditions for self-government and cooperation with the population. The municipality must strengthen the self-sustaining capacity of the settlement, explore its potential and exploit its own resources. Care should be taken to alleviate the burden on the community, to contribute to the performance of the Community's tasks, according to its capabilities and opportunities. The Law on Local Government 13. §2 of the Act specifies that the local government has a system of tasks set out in 21 points. This means that the local government has such a broad task of serving its citizens, which makes it necessary to obtain revenue, and if the State normative is not sufficient to fulfil the tasks, it may levy local business taxes and other taxes in order to generate the local government's resources from these revenues. The body of representatives and the mayor are responsible for the security of the management of the local government. The Law on Local Taxes explicitly states that one of the instruments of economic autonomy is the local tax system, which gives municipalities the opportunity to exercise the sovereign tax right and to develop local tax policy. The government is 478/2020. It announced the emergency in accordance with the provisions of the Government Decree of 3 November 2006 and laid down rules on the eradication of pandemics, followed by 535/2020. The Government decree of 1 December 2006 stated that local taxes should not be introduced or increased in order to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on the national economy. This was not a provision for the eradication of a coronal virus epidemic, so it cannot in any way override the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the municipal law or the legislative law. In doing so, the government decided that not only local tax and municipal tax could be set at a higher rate in 2021 but that no new tax could be introduced. [[Resume 180/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday 16 February 2021 180/2. Number Parliamentary Diary Mr President, I presented that legislative environment to Parliament and to you for such a long time to present this blasphemous situation, because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it is most likely that the judges of Curia will meet with this question. Since it has been seen in recent years that the judges of the Curia and the various colleges and various departments have set up consultative bodies in order to really make decisions for the sake of material justice and social justice and the full implementation of the principles of law, and I am very afraid, Mr President, that this issue will be met very soon, I very much ask you, in addition to the full implementation of judicial independence, that you never, but never deviate from the provisions of any legislation, since their coherent system serves, for example, as regards local self-government, to ensure that the well-being of citizens, the provision of public services and the decision on local matters are completely undisturbed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-16-118	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I'll ask the President of the Curia, Varga Zs. President Andrew wishes to respond and reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2021-02-16-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I followed the debate carefully, and I was thinking that it would probably be the right thing to do if I had listened to the debate with blindfolded eyes, and then I would not reply by name to the congresswoman, Members, but I saw it, so now I am trying to answer in the order of the speech. The first thing I really have to say to all of you, I apologize, CLXI 2011 on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 117. § (1) (b) and (c) I can report here only two things: on the one hand, the activity of ensuring the unity of the application of judicial law, and, on the other hand, the legality investigation of municipal decrees and the failure to comply with municipal decrees. I cannot report to you on any other matter, because I cannot be asked on any other matter under the Fundamental Law and the law. So if there's one thing I don't answer, then I'm asking you to admit to the law and not to my disrespect. Thank you very much for all the supportive words addressed to my honourable predecessor, Mr Peter Darák, I will give you this, including those which have been pre-empted to me. In the order of the speeches, I must say that a political opinion on the judgment of the courts can be expressed, that it is not polite to give a political opinion on a judge, and that the judge is, in fact, difficult to reject the political opinion. We are living in an era, Honourable Parliament, for 21 years now, when the courts no longer operate under party control, when judges cannot be party members, and when the Fundamental Law, otherwise in full compliance with the provisional constitution previously in force, generally prohibits the political activity of judges, not only forbids party political activity. [[17.00]] Now, why am I saying this so long? Because if a judge is under political attack, he cannot, unfortunately, answer as a private person, but must also avoid any political expression in his reply. Therefore, I am forced to reject any political attack on behalf of the judges of the Curia, even more so, on behalf of myself. By the way, when such was the case for the Curia or the courts in general, the current head of the Curia, or the current head of the National Court Office, refused to do so and will continue to do so. So I am therefore obliged to decline to the conclusion that, in the event of the creation of an administrative court, the judges would have been addicted, as everyone obviously knows, that a transfer from the Curia to the Supreme Court of Public Administration has begun. With one exception, all judges would have passed from the Mansion, and judges who eventually didn't pass still work at the Mansion. Therefore, I apologise, Congressman, for the fact that any judge in the administrative college was an addict or any judge would be inclined to be dependent on any government. All the judges in the Curia remained independent, independent, and probably would have remained independent on other issues. The fact that the establishment of an administrative supreme court was, by the way, correct or not, is not a question for me. What I could say about this is what I was involved in two institutions. I can say that this is the more common solution in the western part of Europe, but the rest is none of my business. However, as far as the precedent system is concerned, it concerns the Curia's legal unification activities. What I can say is that not one European institution and not two European institutions explicitly recommend the introduction of a limited set of precedents. This is, on the one hand, the natural approach of the continental and Anglo-Saxon legal systems, which speeded up the natural approach by the fact that these two legal systems are explicitly mixed in the case law of the two major international supreme courts, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the Court of Justice of the European Union, based in Luxembourg, because there are very many national legal traditions and different solutions to the three large legal families. We all know that all decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, based in Luxembourg, must be followed as a precedent. If the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union are to be followed as a precedent in the application of European law, then I see no reason why the Curia's decisions on Hungarian law should not be followed even without such a law. By the way, if the Member permits a simplistic question because I do not want to waste time on it for a very, very long time, then I can say that if the Curia did not have an effect on the lower court, then what is the purpose of the Curia, because again it is the Fundamental Law, which is practically the same as the provisional constitution that was in force before, it provides that this is its specific task to ensure the unity of rights. This can be ensured by doing what needs to be done in various procedures. I can tell Mr Vejkey, what I have already said, that I cannot comment on a specific judgment. I can't comment on the judgment of which court or the judgment of the Curia in the specific case, either here, in front of the Honourable Parliament or in Markó Street. This is not an option for me. However, what I can say in relation to your speech and your suggestions or criticism is what I said at my hearing with the Justice Committee, at my hearing with the National Judicial Council, and after taking office, at the entire meeting of the Curia, that I vow to ensure the independence of the Curia from everyone. And in my today's expo, I also mentioned this, that "from everyone" should be understood to mean from everyone: from those who are declarively trying to influence the independence of judgment beyond those who are free: the parties and the legal representatives of the parties, and from those who are trying to hide it. The honourable Parliament can be absolutely sure of this. The President of the Curia cannot, of course, carry out an inquiry that is proposed by the Member. The President of the Curia may, of course, consider what he can do on such a matter. I will think about it, and I can promise you one thing: if any civil society organisation wishes to put political pressure on the Mansion, I will not allow it. By the way, we have already taken action on this in the past. I can tell Mr László Varga that, of course, the report contains little information on electoral procedures. Why? Because of what I just said: two issues can be reported. The electoral procedure is neither relevant nor can be reported on some issues; obviously some examples can be set. I cannot give an opinion on the two decisions that the Member has made in Curia, and therefore I will not. But to be perfectly honest with you, Congressman, I don't think I can answer that much, and the reason I can't answer that is because I can't say that the electoral system is good, the electoral legislation is good. The only thing I know is that all the Councils of the Curia have tried and will, of course, continue to act according to their best knowledge and conviction, legally. If this fails in a specific case, the parties have a further right to complain, they can appeal to the Constitutional Court, and if the Constitutional Court finds that the Curia has made an inadequate decision, it will obviously restore the necessary legal situation. But the fact that, in the end, either with the Constitutional Court or without the Constitutional Court, the Curia's decisions contain the truth, I cannot deviate from that, Congressman, because that is the essence of the legal force. [[Interjection.]] The final decision is pro veritate accipitur, the per definitionem is fair in the rule of law, and I will have to stick to it, and I will hold on to it. Obviously, I can say to the Constitutional Court's question about the failure to comply with the basic law, that I can no longer answer it, other than what is contained in the legislation; if the Constitutional Court requires something, it is obviously mandatory. It's mandatory because the Constitutional Tribunal is also a court of law. And I can tell Mr Sebian-Petrovsk that my answer will be brief, because what he has said, and most of which is his opinion of me, I cannot do much with this. Before I was elected, I had to pay attention to his opinion on this. I can't pay attention today, because if I listen, I should accidentally consider it a violation of my judicial independence, and I'd rather not do that. However, I must pay attention to one thing, Congressman, that I quote you said that the Curia has lost its independence. Honourable Congressman. I reject that most definitely. The Curia consists of 80-some judges. To claim a mansion of eighty or a few judges that he has lost his independence is a statement that I can never tolerate under any circumstances, so I strongly reject it here. All the judges of the Curia are independent, including, Congressman, their President. However, with regard to the length of press trials, I can give you a sentence. I'm working on making sure the Mansion doesn't have a case over a year, and that's what the Mansion is working on. The number of cases over a year is very, very, very low at the Mansion. However, I agree with the Member, of course, that there is only one very long case that is more than fortunate, more than acceptable, but even more than we can reconcile, so we will continue to deal with this. I can say to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, even though I don't see her, I apologize That at my hearing on foreign exchange credit issues, you told me a lot of things. [[17.10]] I also said that I listened to what he said and that I would obviously continue to listen. What I can do about this as the President of the Curia, I've already done, and I'm going to do it again. This, of course, is mostly attention. But what I can tell you is that the Civic College is monitoring the practices of the other courts in its own practice. If it is necessary to intervene in the case-law, we will intervene, obviously provided that the procedural conditions are given, if there is a motion and if the motion can be assessed, whether this is a review, whether it is a procedure of legal unity that can be called the traditional classic, or a complaint procedure for a new legal unit. From the fact that the legal environment, the decision of the old legal unit of the Curia, the first law on foreign exchange credit, the second law on foreign exchange credit, the first two decisions of the Constitutional Court, the decree of the Hungarian National Bank, the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the decree of the Hungarian National Bank, the legal environment has been created, we cannot be too distracted from it. One of the essential elements of this is that these laws, i.e. the two laws, the regulation and the Constitutional Court, said the same thing, but also the European Court of Justice in these thirteen cases of some number of cases, I apologize now, and I do not know by heart that in the EEC decision, it was actually intended to eliminate partial nullity, so that, if information can be eliminated, partial nullity in the unilateral establishment of exchange rate risk, then, in addition to eliminating this, the contracts should be maintained. So the Court of Justice of the European Union has also decided, the Parliament has also decided, and the reasons for the laws reveal this, and this is what the Constitutional Court has represented, and therefore, in this legal context, the Curia must do what this legal environment says. Where it is necessary to change, we will certainly change. The only thing I do not know about this House and the Member is that I cannot tell you what decision we will make in the cases before us. I think, as a result of today's debate, I can safely say that if I could say this in advance, that would be a big problem. But I can't tell. In fact, I responded to the other speeches, including the fact that it could or could not be given a political opinion on a judgment. Of course, in the rule of law, political opinions can be expressed on all subjects, because a few centuries ago European culture invented the controversial parliamentary assembly so that the elected Members of Parliament could discuss public affairs on behalf of the people. However, there are limits to this, and I ask you nicely, because all I can do is ask the Honourable Parliament, that it is, on the other hand, that judges have a limited answer to this, and that judicial independence is a value that can be destroyed, but we will not be able to rebuild it, being that judicial independence is not a natural value, but, in fact, a special one, I can also say that it is a wonderful cultural value, so that we should take care of it. Why do I say that? Because it is not a natural process at all that the parties entrust their debates to some lawyers, one of whom will make the decision, or three in the case of the Council, and that we will accept it in advance. This is not a natural state, it is a European law-abiding, as can be said in the simplest way: the peculiarity of the Jewish-Christian and the corresponding Roman respect. It is possible to destroy this by not recognising the independence of judges anymore, but only by destroying this respect of law. I believe that, even in the concept of the rule of law, this is a rather important value. I'm asking you to take care of this if you can, and I promise you, on my behalf, that I will take care of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties and the independents.]]
u2021-02-16-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am now going to ask the President of the Justice Committee, Congressman Imre Vejkey, if you would like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. President.
u2021-02-16-121	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The pro-government, the opposition and the independent representatives were fundamentally positive about the report of the Curia in 2019, although their wording also contained extreme manifestations. However, the lead speakers of two parties were definitely out of line: one was Gyure Csaba Jobbikos, and the other was László Sebian-Petrovszki from DK. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] Csaba Gyüre, on behalf of Jobbik, basically spoke about the mantra in Brussels, when the judges are being sensitized in Brussels funding; when sensitive trainings pose a serious risk to judicial independence, as we consider it. [[Dr. Csaba Gyure and Dániel Z. Karpat intervene.]] Mr László Sebian-Petrovski began his speech with a shocking sentence from DK. He said that DK's relationship to the 2019 accounts was different from that of Zs Varga. Mr. Andras, President of the Curia. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] I think this sentence is very similar to the fact that it happened here in connection with the Palace of Justice. As I said to my honourable fellow Members, when the communist takeover took place, the inscription that the Communists had written about the Timpanon of the Palace of Justice was. Iustitia est regnorum. I have now felt such an engraving in respect of democracy in the speech of our fellow Member from Sebian-Petrovsk, and I must specifically reject what he said in relation to the prosecution's office: he contested that the prosecution would be independent. And I must also reject what he said about the Curia, because there he also argued that the Curia would be independent. I would ask my fellow Members to put aside their political sentiments and to judge and vote on the 2019 report of the President of the Curia and the relevant proposal for a resolution on this basis. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-16-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Now, at 5:18 p.m. instead of 2:30 p.m., there is no attempt to exert pressure on this, only the facts will be established in the 2019 report of the President of the National Court of Justice and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision to adopt it until closure. Report submitted by the President of the National Court Office B/13547. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/13947. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the President of the National Court of Justice, the author of the report, Mr Seneyei György Barna. Here you go. [[17.20]]
u2021-02-16-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you so much for the opportunity. As has already been said today, I am reporting for the second time a year that was not under my leadership in the National Court Office, because you are perfectly aware that on 10 December 2019 the National Assembly elected me President of the National Court Office. As a result, I report on the year 2019: Bsi. the general situation of the courts and the administrative activities of the courts on the basis of the relevant provision, but the fact is that during the period concerned, I have been a main player in the central administration of the courts for 21 days. Obviously, cases were also discussed in previous speeches, and I would be able to report cases from 2019 infinitely, but this goes beyond the legal framework of today's report, so I have to talk about case data at this late hour, which are talkative, and obviously their significance cannot be disputed, since the search for rights is affected by all details of case arrivals, case endings and backlogs. The National Court of Justice received 1 166 220 cases in 2019. Here we must observe a trend that you know, and this trend is a reduction in the amount of cases. This has been real for years, perhaps not reaching a significant amount, but it is already above the figure, as in 2019 there were 6.6 percent fewer cases than in 2018. In 2018 the arrival to remind you was 1 248 685. The reduction in the arrival of the case can be observed at all court levels. The largest decrease occurred on the judging boards, which was a 13.1 percent decrease, and the second largest in the Curia, with 11,6 percent. This does not mean, of course, that there are few cases, but the trend is significant. The national endings, since the correct response of the case is the conclusion: in 2019, a total of 1 191 587 cases were completed in the courts, which represents a 7.9 percent reduction compared to the previous year, but it is crucial here that all the completions were 2.2 percent higher than the national arrival. Obviously, it is well known to all honourable Members that there is a close link between arrival and completion. The number of cases pending at the end of 2019 has decreased to 206 688 in 24 380 cases compared to the end of the previous year, which means 10,6 percent less cases than at the end of 2018. This means that there was a 14.2 percent reduction in litigation cases and 7.3 percent reduction in non-court cases. The situation in the central region is well known from the point of view of transactionability to all of us. There is no change in this circle, compared to previous years, to the courts in the central region of the country, such as the Metropolitan Court, the General Court and the Budapest Surroundings Tribunal, and 40 percent of the national case volume is constantly arriving. This reported 463 304 cases in 2019. The issue of timeliness, which is always at the centre of interest: 86.5 percent of the lawsuits in the courts, as in previous years, 86.3 percent of the lawsuits in the district courts ended within a year. On the judging boards, 97.6 percent of the cases arrived within a year, while 81.9 percent of the cases were completed within six months. Overall, it can be concluded that the number of litigation cases in the first instance courts has decreased by 6.3 percent over two years, over one year in the second instance of forensics and over six months in the judging tables. In the case of cases over five years, compared to the data for 2018, when it was 1001, a decrease of 13.7 per cent was observed, i.e. by the end of 2019 the number of cases over five years was reduced to 864. Obviously, a permanent issue is the situation of cases over two years and over five years. We have to divide these data into two. In the case of cases over two years, the very fundamental difference, which I usually emphasize, is that the case goes on, if it goes on, why it drags on, or it simply lasts a long time. It takes a long time because the action is so complex, the number of defendants is so large, or the indictment case, the evidence is, where appropriate, complex, multi-party, which excludes completion within one year or within two years. There is quite simply a procedure that is perfectly known to you, where a well-founded judgment requires a longer period of time, and that is why, obviously, judicial administration needs to pay attention to reducing the number of unduly prolonged cases, and cases should be duly and timely brought to an end in such a way that the public seeking rights is not harmed. In other words, the dynamic balance between foundation and timeliness is our current task of creating and maintaining a dynamic balance. Reasonability and customer satisfaction, customer satisfaction in the good sense of the word are always determined by the number of judgments and the number of judgments raised at first instance. We must acknowledge that a judgment is really good or, obviously, that the word is perfect, if no one appeals against it, that is to say, to the public seeking rights, the plaintiff and, where appropriate, the defendant, among whom, let us say that there is an antagonistic conflict of interest, a position of interest, and yet they acknowledge the decision of the Court of First Instance, both of them, this means that the judgment is adopted by both parties, and the more cases that rise to the first degree of legal force, the more acceptable the action of the courts is by the seekers. The vast majority of the judgments are born at district court level in civilist cases. In 2019, 55 percent of the lawsuit endings were such, and it can be said, as in previous years, that 92.7 percent of litigation cases will rise to legal force in the first instance. Depending on the legal basis, an indicator of the merits can be defined as the repeal rate. This indicator shows the ratio between the repealing and the decisions ordered to proceed with the new procedure in the second instance decisions. The repeal rate improved in 2019 compared to the previous year. In criminal cases, it decreased from 3.8 per cent in the previous year to 2.7 per cent in the case of district courts and tribunals and from 3.9 per cent in the case of tribunals and judges to 1.8 per cent in the previous year. In the context of the legal unit and the quality of the case-law, significant data are the result of the Constitutional Court proceedings, and the activities of the courts should also be examined in the light of them. 460 cases were brought before the Constitutional Court and 26 judicial decisions were annulled. Human resources are also significant. At the end of 2019, 11 745 people actually worked in the justice system, of which 2926 judges, 911 court secretaries, 233 judges and 7675 law employees. [[17 .30]] In 2019 the service relationship of 97 of our fellow judges ceased, of which 49 were retired, 26 were up to the age limit, 19 were resigned and 3 were dismissed. In 2019, the President of the National Court of Justice examined 134 applications for judges, for which 565 applications were submitted. As a result of the tender procedure, the President of the OBH submitted a proposal for the appointment of 73 judges to the President of the Republic. In 57 cases, he has decided to transfer a designated judge to another place of service and in 4 cases the tender has been declared unsuccessful. The President of the OBH has made his decision according to the ranking of the Judges Council in each of the 130 effective job applications he has assessed, i.e. he has presented the candidate ranked first to be appointed or transferred. At the end of 2019 there were 767 court leaders in the judicial system, of which 123 were and belong to the appointment powers of the President of the OBH. In 2019, the president of the OBH decided to consider 36 applications for appointing management posts, of which 9 were declared ineffective due to the legal change in the administrative and labour regional colleges, so this was December. In addition, in 18 cases, the management procedures ended with appointments and in 9 cases with a declaration of inefficiencies, in three cases because of the lack of support from the opinion body, in three cases because of the absence of a tender and in three other cases because of other reasons. The management of the court organisation is also significant, since in 2019 we can say that it was stable. The budget provided by the Finance Act increased to HUF 127.97 billion in the course of the year, also as a result of the additional resources provided by individual government regulations. As in previous years, around 64 percent of the expenditure appropriation was provided by personal allowances, amounting to HUF 81.88 billion. The issue of information technology is extremely important in the courts. Obviously, when we talk about information technology, this will be particularly significant next year, when, in fact, the pandemic situation is known to all of us. In 2019 we didn't know what challenges the organization was facing, how we had to respond to home office, how we had to respond to other challenges that we had never known before. But I'm going to present this to you next year, or this year, but in any case, if we talk about the year 2020 the data that I'm about to present in the context of 2019 will be evaluated. In 2019 the workers were supported by 8 thousand new monitors, 521 new workstations and 50 new tablets. In addition, 1323 new printers and 94 new servers were added. In order to introduce a new, efficient office system, 11 700 office software packages have also been activated and 120 server licenses required for the operation of the entire system have also been purchased. In the area of integrity, the total number of data relating to litigation proceedings against the courts is significant: In 2019 the courts were prosecuted in 309 cases, with a total of 516 cases pending at the end of the year. The most common types of cases: I will not reveal a secret or it will not be a big novelty that 450 damages lawsuits have been filed, so basically damages lawsuits, 32 labour lawsuits have been filed, and 15 lawsuits for issuing public information have been brought into the process against the courts. In the course of the year, 442 cases were finalised, of which 6 were brought to a standstill by the courts, i.e. 99 percent of the actions were unfounded. A total of HUF 9 213 355 was ordered to pay the courts that were prosecuted as defendants in the lawsuits closed during the reporting period. Make no mistake, this HUF 9 million is more than acceptable. My intention and aim is not only to give a number in the first person, but also to all my fellow judges and court leaders, so that this amount will be reduced further and no compensation will be paid. The disciplinary position of the judges is also significant, and I believe that it is of interest to you. 11 judges have received written warnings, the employer's authority has initiated disciplinary proceedings against 17 judges in 22 cases, in 13 cases because of misconduct in relation to the service relationship, in 5 cases because of conduct which violates the authority of the judicial profession, in 4 cases because of conduct which violates the authority of the judicial profession and is also in breach of obligations in relation to the service relationship. The President of the Republic suspended the immunity of 5 judges: 4 cases of prosecution, 1 case of criminal proceedings against the Judge's spouse for the conduct of an investigative act, 3 cases of infringement against three judges, infringement of all road traffic rules. Access to the courts was also a major issue in 2019 and electronic contact was also appreciated in the pandemic situation in 2020. In 2019, 1 241 519 electronic submissions were received, of which 588 209 in civilist trials, 363 235 in criminal matters, 256 054 in infringement cases and 34 021 in civil society registration or registration procedures. In practice, electronic administration covered a large part of the activity, thus trying to help law seekers, the court organisation may not have been modest, but it has succeeded in helping. The tools for this were e-complaining, the perpetuity calculator, the court electronic information and warning system and the electronic payment system. The OBH developed a separate court payment portal, where 19 117 successful transactions took place during the period under investigation. In the new year, and in the year 2020 in particular, remote hearing, courtroom image and sound recording became significant, of particular importance, since 72 endpoints were built in 2018, 112 additional courtrooms were installed for remote hearing and meeting room picture and sound recording facilities in 2019 to achieve the objective of having at least one courtroom equipped with telecommunications equipment in each court. In 2019, the courts conducted a total of 6426 remote hearings with the help of the In 2019 there were 6426 distance hearings, involving 5221 defendants, 638 witnesses, 232 civil trial participants, 179 persons subject to infringement proceedings and 40 experts. Obviously, this has increased significantly in 2020 and this trend, if any, regardless of the pandemic situation... so if life is restored to normal, I believe that remote listening should continue, remote listening is the way of the future, as this is a time and cost factor that serves the interests of the public seeking rights. By the end of 2019 the project was completed, with the main objective of ensuring faster and more cost-effective judgment, e-files are the tools for this; as a result of the publication and anonymisation of judicial decisions, decisions can be reached in a single and searchable directory, or a process, the online interconnection of public-credit registers and judicial systems. The year 2019 was the year of central training, the last full year of personal participation training, with 18 361 participants participating in 531 events, of which 354 central training was carried out with the participation of 10 065 participants. [[17.40]] In 2019, 370 training trips took place, involving 158 judges, 54 court secretaries and 20 judicial staff and judicial authors taking part in study trips abroad. In the first half of 2019, two judges worked at the Court of Justice of the European Union and a court secretary and a judge at the European Law Academy. In the second half of 2019, two judges worked at the Court of Justice of the Union, a judge at the European Court of Human Rights, and a judge at the European Law Academy. In 2019 it was possible for judges appointed for an indefinite period to participate in professional law school, after prior consultation with local law faculties, to apply for 27 professional law schools from 8 universities in the framework of an internal application, and 100 out of 153 applications received the possibility of obtaining a professional law degree in the framework of the application. In the first half of the year 2019, there were two occasions for the posting of judges: in the first half of 19 there were 31 job vacancies received 64 applications, out of 53 successful applicants 28 were appointed judges, and in the second half there were 71 applications in the second half there was a marked increase in interest in the course of the course of the course, and 19 of the 53 successful applicants were appointed to the court, so the need for human resources was a specific reverse in the field of interest and appointments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you so much for listening. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I give the floor to the chairman of the Justice Committee, Congressman Imre Vejkey, the author of the motion for a resolution. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-125	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to welcome Dr. György Seneyei Barna, President of the National Court Office, Deputy Presidents and present staff here at the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament. The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 76. Pursuant to paragraph 8 (c), the President of the OBH submitted to the National Assembly the B/13547 on the activities of the National Court Office in 2019 This report, which was discussed as a committee designated by the relevant Judicial Committee at its meeting on 24 November 2020, was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, The situation is peculiar, because on 10 December 2019 the National Assembly elected President György Barna Seneyei as President of the OBH, that is, in 2019 in the year of this report, taking into account the fact that the case-break started on 24 December, he essentially acted as President of the OBH for two weeks. Please appreciate that. Ladies and Gentlemen, The relationship between courts and law-seeking citizens is fundamentally influenced by the number of cases judged by the courts, the speed of court proceedings and the quality of contact with the courts, of course, beyond just judgments. The Judicial Committee paid tribute to the actions taken by the OBH to reduce backlog, with which ongoing cases decreased by almost 11 percent compared to 2018 and cases over five years by more than 13 percent. In the context of the Commission's debate, the Judicial Committee heard a detailed report on the activities of the OBH in 2019 and on the measures taken to establish the personal and material conditions of the judicial organisation. In doing so, the Judicial Committee welcomed the increase in the use of electronic administration, including the availability of communication and complaint management systems. The Committee considered the digitisation of court documents, the significant increase in the number of distance hearing points, and the launch of the court deposit portal to be a significant event. The Judicial Committee considered it particularly important to take measures aimed at ensuring transparency, predictability and control of case-law and administrative work at all levels of the court. The members of the committee asked questions about the integration of the courts, the appointment and the retirement of the judges. On the basis of what was said in the debate, the Committee concluded that the technical objectives of the OBH for the year 2019 had been achieved. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, at the meeting of the Judicial Committee on 24 November 2020, B/13547 entitled "The President of the National Court of Justice's Office" in 2019. adopted by 8 votes to 1, with 1 abstention. The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee shall be laid down in Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure. H/13947 submitted pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of this Article. In its proposal for a resolution No. 13, the report is proposed to this House for adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] H/13947 submitted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. In its proposal for a resolution No. 13, the report is proposed to this House for adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2021-02-16-126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll ask Secretary Hajas to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] It says no. Then we will now have the keynote speakers. First of all, the main speaker of Fidesz, Mr István Bajkai, can give his opinion. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's Fundamental Law provides that the President of the National Court Office shall perform the central tasks of the administration of the courts. The administration of the courts is a set of administrative activities which are not closely related to the performance of the judicial functions of the courts and judges, but provide the courts with the personal and factual conditions of the case. According to the law on the organisation and administration of the courts, the President of the National Court of Justice shall report annually to Parliament on the general situation of the courts and on the administrative activities of the courts in his task of informing them. Ladies and gentlemen, We have in front of us a very thorough report by the President of the National Court of Justice on all the relevant issues discussed by the Parliament's Committee on Justice in 2019 and a proposal for its adoption, as we have just heard. [[17.50]] The report submitted provides sufficient information on the highly high-quality and effective work carried out by the staff of the Office and by the judges themselves in 2019. Dear House, In addition to the outcome and professional examination of lawsuits, it is in the most important interest for citizens to conclude their case as soon as possible. One of the main indicators of the functioning of the courts is the volume of cases, namely the arrival of cases, the conclusion of cases and the backlog of cases. However, I would like to highlight some remarkable figures, without giving a detailed description of the statistical data. The number of cases received in 2019 decreased by 6.6 percent at national level compared to the previous year. The reduction in the arrival of the case can be observed at all court levels. This is already a significant quantity, which also indicates a trend if we look at the previous years. A total of 1,191 587 cases were completed in 2019 with regard to national completions. The number of terminations exceeded the arrival of all cases, as well as litigation, at all levels of the case. At the end of 2019, the number of pending cases has fallen to 206 688 in 24 380 cases compared to the end of the previous year, which means 10,6 percent less cases than at the end of 2018. Time is also the most important factor for law-seeking citizens, which is, of course, a fundamental function of the case-martial. As in the previous year, 86.5 percent of the lawsuits in the courts and 86.3 percent of the lawsuits in the district courts ended within a year, 97.6 percent of the cases on the courtboards were completed within a year, while 81.9 percent of the cases were completed within six months. Overall, it can be concluded that the number of litigation cases in the first instance courts has decreased by 6.3 percent over two years, beyond one year in the second forensics, and beyond six months on the judging boards. These figures also show that the effectiveness of domestic case-law is significantly improving. It is essential for the functioning of the court, we have also heard this, the IT situation, especially if we are thinking about the new challenges posed by the pandemic in 2020. The system of court organisations must constantly adapt to the expansion of electronic procedural forms and administrative possibilities, which serve a more efficient, faster procedure and simplification of procedures. To this end, the IT asset pool continued to expand in 2019 and the IT network was developed. Today, the importance of building a national-level hearing system under the Via Video project in 2018 has also been appreciated. More than one hundred end points have been established in the reference year, so now there is at least one meeting room equipped with telecommunications equipment in every district court, court, judge board and the Curia, allowing video conferences to be held in every court building. Even in 2019, as we have also heard, 6426 distance hearings were conducted by the courts with this technique, which will certainly increase significantly in the coming years. The provision of a remote hearing system and the necessary infrastructure should therefore continue to be a priority for development. Its many advantages, such as reducing the time and cost of proceedings, increasing transparency and reducing the security risks associated with the transport of prisoners, are essential for such a pandemic to have a remote hearing. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the President and alternates of the National Court of Justice, their colleagues, are of high quality and effectively performing their duties under the Fundamental Law and the Law on the Organisation and Administration of the Courts and other legislation. Dear Parliament, In the light of the results learned in the report and practice, the President of the OBH and the staff of the Office should be thanked for the high level of professionalism, extraordinary preparedness and efficiency of the tasks required by the legislation in 2019. In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to adopt the report of the National Court of Justice for the year 2019 and to support the proposal for a decision of the Judicial Committee. We wish the President of the Office and the whole organization good health and good and effective work. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik, please.
u2021-02-16-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would also like to welcome President Seneyei to today's Parliament meeting. Once again, a special situation has occurred for the second time with Mr President, that he is standing before the Parliament not reporting on his own work, and really only a few days in 2019 is your activity, which obviously cannot be decisive for an entire year. This is the year that Tünde Hando, whom we have criticized so many times, was the last year of his activity, and we all have a serious record of his activity. Of whom he was certain, of whom he was positive, of whom he was negative. However, this is still a special situation, since Mr President must now not report on his own work, but on the work of his predecessor, which he has tried to draw up in all respects in a completely concrete and correct manner. I am very pleased that one of the central issues and the raising of this report is the two most important things, namely timeliness and soundness. After all, when we started our law university studies, we immediately learned in one of the first hours when we started to understand how much more effective the enforcement of the law would be if it happened as soon as possible, for example, in a criminal case, the impact on the community, or the deterrent effect of a punishment in the event that it happens quickly and quickly, if the punishment is imposed quickly, then the effectiveness of a punishment is at least twice as great. That is why the issue of timeliness is important and, obviously, in addition to timeliness, well-foundedness is very important. We see that when we look at the statistics, there were more endings than in 2018, so the number of endings increased by 15.6 percent. I think that it is a central issue for both the law-seeking citizen and the organisation of the court to see how much backlog is created. Obviously, it means 15,6 percent more endings, and obviously, the court is working 116 percent, that the backlog was then processed, and this is a very important thing. Similarly, it is a very positive thing that the number of cases completed within a year shows very good data, as we are talking about 86.3 percent in the district courts, 86.5 percent in the courts and 97.6 percent on the courtboard. In Civil Aviation, which is 55 percent of all cases, the biggest wall in the courts, Mr President has said that 92.7 percent of cases have been brought to justice. [[18.00]] This is a very positive figure, since everyone saves costs if they do not use the second degree or, where appropriate, the exceptional third degree. This has a significant cost-saving effect. If it is not appealed, it is obviously a two-edged thing, because it may be that someone who obviously does not have legal aid and who has a serious amount does not dare to risk a second-degree procedure with significant additional costs. But obviously, we must assume here in the first place that citizens have been reassured by the decision made by the Court of First Instance. Indeed, I think that the most positive thing in a court of law, the most positive thing, the ringing of a case, a judgment, is that if the losing party can accept it, because the judge himself can justify it with reasons and legislation that it is acceptable to the losing party, and obviously, in this case, the best is the judgment of the court. The repeal rate has also improved significantly, and the President has also reported on this, as, for example, in the criminal case, the number of repealed cases has decreased from 3.8 per cent to 2.7 per cent for the district court tribunal, and from 3.9 per cent for the court ruling table to 1.8 per cent. So what we're seeing is that the number of repeals is now around 1-2 percent, that's really a very small proportion. What I couldn't find, and I might have looked at it superficially and listened specifically to the President's accounts, but I couldn't tell what the proportion of cases that had been completely changed was either. Obviously, it can't be too much, either, if 92.7 percent goes first-degree, 1.8 percent will be repealed. Obviously, a good part of it will be maintained in its scope, and there will be a small percentage that will be changed. However, this may also have some significance. The President has also spoken, and the lead speaker speaking before me has also spoken about the decline in the case-martial, which is already a trend in court. What I have seen is that there is not such a great reduction in the arrival of the case, since this is 5-10 percent, and in some cases we can even talk about 1-2 percent. However, my experience with a number of judges, from many parts of the country, is that these judges report that the number of cases has actually decreased, but the cases that have just arrived are much more difficult than those from ten years ago, it takes a lot more time, they require much more attention, they require much more follow-up and proof. So I'm not sure that a few percent reduction in the file means that this court, the judges, could be easier. I'm not sure that's what it means at all, but it could mean that it was hard. So these measurements alone may not express much. I have already mentioned that the proportion of cases completed and received is an important issue. Here there is an improvement on almost every level, a district court, a court, a board, a Curia, a performance of over 100 percent everywhere. So there has been a backlog review, which I congratulate the judges here, and I would like to thank all the employees of the OBH, the staff of the courts, both judges, judges, court secretaries, authors, case managers, judicial staff, officials and anyone who assists the courts in whatever form. It is also particularly positive that almost 90 percent of litigation cases will be completed within a year. So here the justification of the timeliness is proven with a nice number. Yeah, I've already told you that the rate of rise to legal force is 92.7 percent, that's a very good result. The next activity is the legislative opinion activity, which I would like to talk about. This is also an interesting issue, since it is the judges themselves who apply the legislation that apply it at a high level. So they probably know how to apply legislation in the most direct and professional way. Therefore, I think that it is extremely important for the legislator to have this feedback as high as possible, and I generally think it is very positive that, in many cases, even the government asks for the opinion of the OBH and, through it, the judges on certain legislative proposals. However, that experience and judges complain about this, and I know that it is very difficult to resolve this issue, because there are serious deadlines here, but there is usually a day or two for a specialised judge in his field of expertise to give an opinion on a draft legislation. Obviously, when he has to do his own work, don't give it to me, God, he has a day to negotiate, don't give it to me, God, he has to write judgments, he doesn't have time to do that. So it would be somehow good to do so, and it is also a request to the government that, if there is such a case, we should, if possible, give judges as much time as possible, or the courts, to have a longer time limit for their legal opinion. In 2018, so a year earlier, the integrity code came into force, the new one, if I remember correctly, on 1 January, which caused quite a dust in court. Even in 2019, this had an impact, and I recall perhaps asking the President when he spoke on the Committee on Justice that he would change or plan to change it. Since then, I have had an answer to that question, perhaps at the last Justice Committee meeting we discussed this, that in view of the Covid epidemic, other problems now need to be dealt with. This is being pushed back by the Covid epidemic and its activities, but sooner or later there will be a change. Obviously, we have to take this into account, and it is obviously more important now that a thousand new activities have been brought up in relation to the epidemic, a new task for the courts, and it is obviously more important to combat them than possibly to establish a new regulation. The year 2019 was a special year for OBH. I would like to highlight the person of President Tünde Handó here, and perhaps I would also call 2019 a year of confrontation from his point of view, because at that time he had a very serious conflict with the National Council of Judges, practically not even on speaking terms with the President with the OBT. He also had a serious confrontation with MABIE, the Hungarian Judicial Association, and the result was that the association had to move out of court buildings. I think that the judiciary is a very important institution, because judges have a lot of opportunities, citizens' rights due to their limited judicial nature, and they cannot enforce their needs as easily as iron workers, who have the right to strike, have many other rights, which are often limited in the case of judges. In this case, the activities of such a judicial association will be valued. I am very pleased that, with the appointment of President Seneyei, these issues were resolved in a single blow, and it turned out that the personal conflicts that Tünde Hando had had in his own conflicts had been brought to the court organisation, and that these had been resolved overnight with a change of leadership. But we are evaluating 2019 now, and I cannot do that to not mention this for 2019. If we have already mentioned problems, I will also mention the judicial tender system, which has not been a serious problem, but President Seneyei mentioned the need to reform the tendering system in de-cember 2019 in his speech. [[18.10]] Here you have spoken about the point system, and we have also talked about it, I recall that there is obviously a need for such a point system, but it is not certain that the current system is the most perfect way of expressing the effectiveness of the application system for judges, and it is not certain that the most appropriate person will be appointed on the basis of the point system, since in many cases the result achieved twenty to thirty years ago, a state exam ticket, a professional exam ticket, is still affecting the point system, while the ability to evaluate, other things that cannot be evaluated in the point system, will not be evaluated, and therefore false results may occur. There has been a promise of some change in this, or at least an initiative from the President, which, we hope, will come to pass with the Covid epidemic, because there are obviously more important and pressing tasks now. Then the reduction of bureaucracy: 2019 also highlighted the importance of cutting red tape within the court organisation. As a lawyer, I have seen the professional leadership of college leaders from their heads of colleges 20 years ago, while in 2018-19 the college leaders complained in a row that these guidelines seem almost lost, professional discussions seem to be lost, because the bureaucracy of college leaders from the OBH is so much burdened, to which an 8-hour daily working day is virtually limited, and the reduction and finding a balance that this works properly, I think it would be very important for the future. I understand that we will not see, we will not see any improvement in 2020 because the Covid epidemic has occurred, which none of us obviously expected to see, has also put the college leaders to a whole new task, for whom there have been countless new obligations to provide statistics on home office, but we are confident that there will be a change in this, and bureaucracy will also be reduced, so that the college leaders can really focus more on professional work. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, thank you very much. Now, when my time is up, I'm done. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-02-16-130	My apologies. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: I'm sorry, I thought I had 30 minutes!]] What I'm trying to say is that I was very happy to ring the bell, but I wouldn't have had the right, because you have 30 minutes. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes, that's what I thought. Shall I go on, then?]] Go on, yes, and we'll deduct that. I apologize.
u2021-02-16-131	No problem, thank you very much. I thought I had a 30-minute window, and that's why I spoke so bravely. The next issue I wanted to touch on or want to touch on is the matter of matters over two years. This was also mentioned by the President in his seat book, and I found the President's thoughts on this to be very positive that the statistical approach should not be the most decisive in this regard, when forcing the statistical approach to be based on a case often leads to very negative grounding, and, in some cases, it may indeed be at the expense of well-foundedness, and here, too, must be seen as the primary consideration. I mentioned in my previous speech, even with regard to the Curia President's report, that at Hando's Fairy, we had a strong sense of the control of the statistical approach and its dominance in relation to the foundation. I think that we need to find the right balance here, too, and I hope that there will be an appropriate change in this too. I wanted to talk about judicial independence, but I have already said most of the things about this in my previous speech, which I do not want to repeat completely. So here are the government attacks that have achieved judicial independence over the last ten years, and I think that we have managed to prevent them for the time being, and I hope that this will continue to be the case in the future. It would be thoughtful, where appropriate, how we can protect the budget of the courts, for example, so that it does not depend on the current government. In the year 2010-11, my colleague Tamás Gaudi-Nagy and I suggested that a clause in the Fundamental Law might be put in place in this regard, since it is very strange when one branch of power depends on the other branch of power from the point of view of the budget, so that we can eliminate the convenience of the current Parliament, at least at the level of principle. If this were to be recorded in the Fundamental Law, then it might be possible to change that. Also, such a question is the question of judicial remuneration, which was a neurological point, and since 2010, there has not been a report where this has not been affected, and we would not have criticized the government activity that has led to a 65-70 percent decrease in judges' real pay over the last ten to fifteen years, and there has been no change in that. Thank God, 2019 has also brought about a major change, and, after all, there has been a change that was very important. Here it would be the thought-provoking and perhaps the reassuring thing is that the judges' salary, their basic salary, would be in the same way as that of the Members of Parliament, so it would be an automaticism that could be linked, for example, to the average salary of the national economy, and then there would be no such anomalies that have occurred in the last 15 years when there was indeed a real wage reduction of over 60 per cent in the judges. I think that this problem could be eliminated, but this is obviously not the role of the President, but rather the Parliament, because it is the role of the Parliament to legislate in this direction. I also have to mention that in 2019 there were nomination scandals, from which both the press and the public were loud. There was a question of management proposals, appointments or non-promotions. Thank God, ever since there's been a change in the lead, we haven't heard of any problems. It should also be noted that there was even a case of President Tünde Handó trying to prevent the application from running for office by launching a disciplinary action against the candidate, which would have excluded him from the possibility of applying. These are obviously things that should not happen. The President spoke about the question of remote listening, which could become more and more widespread in the future. This was indeed a very positive step forward in the courts. This development of electronics has obviously occurred in court in the last 20 years at a rate that I think we, who were lawyers 20-25 years ago, could not imagine the change that would happen, and indeed, lawyers around the pension 15 years ago could not really follow the changes that had happened, and we, the younger generation, had to tie up the underwear to meet the expectations. Obviously there have been problems in this, but you can see the ambition and direction that drives the case forward, and obviously the judges are constantly complaining about problems, but we are very confident that sooner or later this will be the most eliminated, and that electronics will really benefit everyone in connection with speeding up cases, less travel, shorter time, participation in negotiations and others. One more thing I say to the President is that I think I will say it perhaps for the third time, and you cannot change it, but it would be a parliamentary power again, and we even discussed at the last committee on justice that this falls within the social security remit, but I would also like to mention it here, and this is the pension of forced retirement judges and those who have retired as judges for several years. This is why we are talking about problems, since point 54 of Recommendation 12 of the European Council of 2012 also stated that the pensions of judges should be reasonable in proportion to the benefits of work, and indeed there is a age group that has gone away, and here we can mostly talk about forced retirement judges, who have received about one third of their pension as pensions during the last period, and there is indeed a huge difference between the judges who are now retired and the judges who have long since retired. [[18.20]] We should find a solution here. And this is indeed a social security issue and a legislative issue, so that such injustices do not occur in the system. I have said this to Mr President, and I have said this here because it is clear that recommendations can be made on this, and obviously something will happen if we strike iron. I have also tried to seize this opportunity, and I have also asked Mr President to make recommendations in this direction, if he can take action, either to the government or in another direction. I need your help with that. We very much hope that this pandemic situation will be over as soon as possible, and that the work of the courts will be able to return to normal. I wish both Mr President and his colleagues very good work and good health for the rest. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2021-02-16-132	Thank you very much. Mr Imre Vejkey, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-133	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear György Seneyei, Mr Brown OBH President I do not wish to repeat what I said in my Commission President's Expose, but as Deputy Head of the KDNP Group, it is important to say how our group considers the operation of OBH in 2019. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the 2019 report, the Christian Democrats see that the OBH managed its human and material resources in a thoughtful, sparing and foresightful manner. Further significant progress has been made by the OBH in the year 2019 with regard to the national compensation of the judicial workload. Congratulations on that, too. We see that the development of the OBH is in the direction of the 21st century. The idea of a 100th-century court will also be implemented in our country. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, good justice is an essential element of the concept of a good state. Thank you, Fairy Hando, and thank you, Mr President, for setting this goal on your flag. They have struggled or struggled to achieve this goal. They can count on our support in their struggle. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP faction also supports the 2019 report by the President of the National Court Office and the relevant decision proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-134	Thank you very much. Representative László Varga, notary of the Parliament, is the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a genre disorder similar to that on the previous agenda, because, as Mr President said, we are talking about the period of his predecessor, the report on him and the report on him in 2019. Obviously, it is your job to be here and present this to the Parliament, but obviously the criticisms and comments are addressed to your predecessor in this regard. Let me put it straight ahead, I can say it on behalf of the MSZP fraction, but in my own name, in particular, that very positive expectations preceded your appointment, didn't you provide support for the OBT in advance, and the impulses that are reaching us in this respect are absolutely justified by these expectations, so they are positive. Obviously, the corresponding tone of voice cannot be my comments, because, as has been said before me by my opposition colleague Csaba Gyüre, who has also lived through the reports here in Parliament in recent years, Tünde Handó's work has not been accompanied by such an undivided positive view of the Members. This has often confused with what Members thought of the office itself as a model, the speakers here in Parliament. Obviously, questions have also been raised about its creation. Here, the GRECO report pointed out, for example, the problems it sees with judicial appointments and powers to extend mandates. At the same time, I say that we hope that this absolutely positive trend will continue. However, we are talking about the 2019 report, and in 2019 there were a number of cases where the effects of the then president of the OBH, Fae Hando, on the organization became apparent to everyone and became known to the public. It's enough to think about your practice of appointments as a judge. However, it is important to highlight, and this is one of the main problems with the adoption of the report, that there has been a change in the President of the OBH, and, as I have already said, there are positive developments here for the year 2020. However, since these problems may have to be put on the table here at the National Assembly for the last time in the reference year, where appropriate with regard to OBH, OBT, it is worth examining some important issues that marked the system of judicial organisation and the activities of the President of the National Court of Justice in 2019. The first such case concerns the Budapest Surroundings Tribunal. In 2019 the organization received a 3 million HUF privacy fine for making an illegal list of judges serving there. The background of the case was the fact that the President of the Budapest Surroundings Tribunal issued a list of 51 judges who were members of the Hungarian Judicial Association's advocacy organization and who, based on the reports, were proposed to consider their withdrawal from the organization. The illegal nature of the list was then established by NAIH, and although Tünde Handó exercised his disciplinary powers at that time, he did not consider it justified to replace the head of the court. This was clearly considered an attempt to influence at the time by many. The case was not entirely unique, which is why the National Judicial Council turned to the National Assembly in 2019 for the discharge of Tünde Handó. The OBT said in its communication that it should be included in the minutes, and I would like to quote this precisely:.. OBT has examined the fulfilment of the legal obligations of the President of the OBH several times over the past period. He objected to the appointment exercise of the President of the OBH and to the refusal to submit the submissions. As a result of the violations, OBT has used eight marks to the President of the OBH and has concluded that it has failed to fulfil its obligations over 90 days in respect of several of its duties under the cardinal law. In particular, OBT objected to the violation of the right of citizens to a legitimate judge by the law of certain judges in breach of other courts. During the evaluation of the applications for judicial management posts, instead of the appointment of the candidate supported by the opinion bodies, he regularly filled the position with a mandate, thus evacuating the essence of the application system of the fundamental law. The appointment of the President of the District Court in Hodmezővásárhely has not been investigated despite the OBT's signal. It submitted its budget proposal for the court chapter to the Government without consulting the OBT. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It has also been highlighted:, Since April 2018, the President of the OBH has refused to cooperate with the judicial body supervising him, exercising his own powers without constitutional control. Dr. Tünde Hando opposed the principle of a clear and controlled exercise of power in the Fundamental Law. As OBT has already made clear, compliance and enforcement of laws are not a matter of choice, but a constitutional duty for the practitioners of public power. So far, the quote, obviously referring to your predecessor, I would like to point out once again. [[18.30]] These quotes show a devastating picture of the operation of the OBH in 2019 and the state of the Hungarian court system, so it is certainly not easy, Mr President, because besides its usual presidential duties, it is also the task of restoring the normal functioning of OBH. I would like to stress once again that from this point of view, too, Csaba Gyüre highlighted this, we are hearing positive news and we are getting positive impulses. The independence of the courts and the judges serving there is a fundamental requirement of the rule of law, independent and impartial judicial justice, a fundamental value the least of which carries enormous risks to the country as a whole. Dr. Imre Vörös, Judge of the Constitution, in a parallel explanation to the 1993 resolution, I quote: "If the guarantees of constitutional division of power do not actually exist in the implementation of laws and other laws, or do exist only at the level of declarations, but do not have any consequences, the dynamic balance of the division of power will be disrupted by the constitution. If constitutional guarantees do not prevent the shift of power or can be circumvented by the absence of a clear provision of the law, a shift of power may occur between the different branches of power, but what is particularly dangerous is also between the executive, the judicial power. Even the importance of judicial independence has been recognised by the present Constitutional Court. In a decision of 2018, he argued that judicial independence could be interpreted in two ways in relation to the person in the position of judge, both professional independence and personal independence. Professional independence guarantees the absence of influence in the case-law of the judge and personal independence constitutes the independent public-law status consisting of several components which the judge is entitled to in the course of his service. On the basis of the above, the main question relating to the operation in 2019 is how it will try to break up with these practices in 2019. You are on the right path, but in this context it may be worth explaining in this House what plans you have for the future, since how you intend to exercise these broad powers, which have triggered debates on the establishment of the institution, obviously affects judicial independence. So at the end of my speech, I would also like to ask what you want to do about the appointment exercise, so that the right of citizens to a legitimate judge will not be violated. I could certainly think of a lot more about this period, which ended in December 2019, and I hope that the joyful steps and the processes that started last year will continue. I have a cautious optimism about this, and I wish Mr President and his colleagues good health and good luck with the rest of this work. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski, lead speaker of DK, here you go.
u2021-02-16-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, For me, it will always be interesting to make all the proposals about the OBH, because my first job as a representative was when the Justice Committee listened to György Seneyei Barna. I had the pleasure of putting up a list of about 30 questions and trying to get answers to the problems, problems, problems that in the previous years characterized OBH and the work of Tünde Hando, and they were also readable in the press, and there were news of them in other professional circles. My colleagues, who spoke before me, reported a solid optimism. I'm not that optimistic, and I'm going to tell you why, but first I have to record what many people have done before me. There is indeed a specific feature of this report, as in the previous item on the agenda, the report discussed in the previous debate, namely that it refers specifically to a period during which the person presenting or representing this report was in office for 21 days. If I remember correctly what you said, Mr President, you were in office for 21 days, or Tünde Hando in 2019 for 345 days. I think I don't have to go on long because they know exactly what I think about this and where DK stands and what it thinks. I think that Tünde Handó, if I remember correctly, was one of the lowest points of Hungarian democracy. I think that he is a symbolic figure of Fidesz power, and, yes, I think that through his person, Fidesz tried to influence the course of litigation, especially in matters against the government. They've done all kinds of tricks, I really don't want to tell you all the tricks, because we all know, and we could sit here for a long time: the transfer of lawsuits within the country, between judges, and the like, the stories of the appointment of judges we all know and hear, and the rest, and the rest. We know what this period was about. Therefore, since this report, this report, refers to the year 2019 - the last stage of the work of Tünde Hando - we are obviously unable to accept it, I cannot accept it myself, nor will we vote for it, but it is not surprising, I think that no one expected DK to do so. I am really trying to separate Mr. President's role from this, but this is not what we are discussing and we cannot negotiate whether the past, say, a year or a little more than a year, for three months a year since Mr.György Seneyei Barna has been president of the OBH, what has happened, what processes and how. I think that this is really worth reviewing and detailing in the next report. I wish it were true and true for the opposition representatives before me that there is a great improvement here in the emblematic issues that I have just mentioned and which I have not mentioned, but we all know about, for example, the application of judges and similar issues. The reason I am less optimistic about this is that I refer back to what I said in my first sentence, because, at least in the last year, news in the press does not necessarily show that this optimism is well founded. To say just one thing: the appointment of Péter Tatár-Kis, who was appointed by Tünde Hando, if I remember correctly, temporarily for a year, and now, last summer or a while, you have extended your appointment to six years, if I remember correctly, but you will surely correct me if you do not do so well. So, these cases don't give me optimism, but I'm telling you, I shouldn't be right, and I wish next year or even the fall, when the Justice Committee, I suppose, will discuss the OBH report on your first full year's work from 2020. However, I have a specific question concerning this report and the role of the OBH. It is also included in the report, perhaps my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre mentioned that online meetings and the development of online negotiations are advanced; if I remember correctly, it includes an increase in the number of conference rooms equipped for hearing remotely, and now practically every court or almost every court has such a negotiator, so there are conference rooms equipped with IT tools. This is absolutely welcome, the 21st. This could not be any other way in the last century, and obviously, I believe, this has also contributed to addressing the pandemic situation of the last year. [[18.40]] I would like to ask you this in relation to a kind of look-out for the future, how do you plan that, when this epidemiological situation is over, the courts will not be forced to perform certain procedural stages online or in a distance hearing, even if the possibility of an online administration or an online hearing or an online hearing will remain as an option; I would very much like to recommend this, I would very much like to suggest it. I think that if this system has been built and I say that as the only positive thing, let me highlight this from this report or from the report, then why can't this be done, understand it well, in peacetime, even in an epidemic-free time. That is my specific question to Mr President. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-138	Thank you very much. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We can hear the opinion of Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, as a representative seeking a normal word. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, who I don't see, because he's being hidden from me or me by the pulpit, whatever.
u2021-02-16-140	I don't see you either, and it hurts me. [[Defiance.]]
u2021-02-16-141	But if you sit a little further, then we'll see each other, just a little bit, there's plenty of room in those lines. We have read a report, and we have heard his oral addition, which is not from Mr OBH's period, only ten days, but that ten days probably did not shake the world of the court system towards the end of the year. So we are actually discussing a report on a period of time that reports the results of the previous president's term. Nor is it a secret in this House and in the public opinion of the country that the opposition was constantly at war with the previous president of the OBH, because he simply did not understand what we were thinking, we talked side by side, not because it was not understandable what we wanted or expected. When we heard the new President on the Justice Committee, he had a few sentences that convinced me that he would be fit for this position, and these few sentences were the following. The first and most important was that he said that the independence of the judges was not absolute, because they are not independent of one thing, and these are the laws, so that they must be subject to the law, only in their decisions, in which no one can influence them. I very much welcomed this because we are indeed meeting with a number of judges in the court system who believe that they are also independent of the law and that no one should interfere with the arbitrary violation of a procedural rule. It was also very welcome to me when you said, Mr President, that you did not want the judiciary to work for statistics, and that, in order to avoid over two years, you should not be quick to judge just to meet expectations, but to make decisions when the matter is ripe for the decision. If that happens in the third year of the case, then, at least permanently, close the dispute between the parties, and let's say that a repeal should not extend the period of assessment because, let's say, there is something that has not been listened to and a quick judgment has been reached in order to improve the statistics. I was very pleased to hear you say, Mr President, at your hearing, that it would be calm and dialogue for him that dominates the judicial system under his Presidency. By the way, what I see is that in these thirteen months this has been achieved, because finally the battle between the OBT and the OBH has ended, and an absolute rest period has begun. Everyone in the system understood what they had to do in order to ensure that citizens seeking rights were part of a work on a very stable ground, to an absolute extent, for the quality of justice, and that, in fact, during the new Presidency, we achieved the goal that we had fought for for for nine years. However, there are some questions I would like to raise to Mr President, partly on the data from the report and partly on the experience from everyday practice. When the new civil order was presented by the profession, then the government both to the Members of Parliament who decided on it, both to the profession and to the general public, it was extremely powerful to stress that not only time limits, procedural times, the time to fulfil the obligations, but at last at least one pass will be born, in the new civil order 110. Paragraph 1 of Section 1 which states that the judge must take the measures within 30 days of receipt of the pleadings. Unfortunately, for decades we have seen very often that judges have pulled cases because of a lack of decision-making ability, they have not done the tasks, they have not dared to make a decision, and this was not the parties, but the judges. Now the new civil order has already had a few years of practice, and I have to say that there is an extremely wide experience in this regard that this is the Pp. 110. Paragraph 1 is not complied with by many judges. So with all due respect, I would like to ask Mr OBH to order a comprehensive investigation in this regard, and it is very important that the new Pp. The experience of its system of principle and practical application should be presented as widely as possible and as well as in a well-founded manner to both professional and public opinion, because I believe that it will encounter less favourable experiences. This report says that the number of cases completed has improved significantly not only in previous years, but also this year, and how quickly the number of cases over two years is falling. It is extremely welcome, yet I can show Mr President a case where the Metropolitan Court has not ruled on the appeal for eight years and has not looked for where the file is at all in the last eight years, even though it is in the registration system that there is a case filed eight years ago from a court which should be second-guessed. By 2018 and 2019 there was a significant lower number of cases. When there was the first half-year report of this year, the President stressed that this reduction in the number of contacts for 2018-19 was essentially the electronic procedure and the new Pp introduced. The effect of this medicinal product on the ability to drive and use machines may be reduced. Both lawyers and parties were more afraid to submit their dispute cases, to wait for the experience that the first period would bring, and, drawing on these experiences, they were more confident to enforce their search for rights by submitting fully compliant legal forms. This material shows the extent to which the courts were able to complete their cases within two years. At the end of the line there is the Metropolitan Court and the Budapest District Court, one of them has over 80 percent, the other has 79.1 percent of cases completed within two years. I think that, although these two courts are at the end of the list, I do have to highlight the quality of their activities, because we all know that there is a significantly greater burden on a judge at the Metropolitan Tribunal and the Budapest Surroundings Tribunal. [[18.50]] The most complicated cases, given that there are the largest volume of economic organizations in Budapest and Pest County, there are the most valuable material lawsuits, and there are far more complicated cases before these two courts than they usually do in other courts in the country, so I think that even though they are at the end of the line, I still have to highlight their performance. I myself urge that not only the two years, like such a sacred relic, should be above their heads for the judges to expect, within them, to finish the cases, to wait for cases to come to fruition, and to make the most grounded and righteous decisions. On page 17 of the report, the table on repeals is set out in the table. I may just not see it, but the diagram that shows this presents exclusively the repeals in the criminal case, or accidentally missed, or it may not be appropriate in the diagram with the text description. I couldn't find the rate of repeals in civil lawsuits. There is a report on the secondments, in which I accept that, for the sake of experience and professional development, it is indeed good that a judge is assigned to a higher court for a while, for example, because he or she is tried or tried before appointment with a secondment at that level, but it has been seen in the past that the number of cases has determined that judges have been assigned to other courts and that their work there has been used to reduce the burden. When Mr President's hearing was held, I specifically pointed out that I am not a friend of the secondment system in the sense that if there is to be a reduction in the courtroom, I certainly do not like it when cases are transferred from one court to another because the number of cases is so large. I believe that there is a potential in the judicial administration system to hire judges to deal with this kind of excessive burden by tender, and that walking between different courts, both vertically and horizontally, I do not think it serves justice, specifically in the part where the professional development of judges might justify this. Then Mr. President has promised that the kind of old system, which actually showed such an opaque system of ordering and transferring cases, will try to eliminate it, because there must be enough judges in every court that we think it is necessary for them to handle the expected number of cases. However, these cases change somewhat year after year, but there are no such huge differences from one year to the next, so there is certainly an optimal number of judges that can be found, found and appointed for each court, the amount that can provide it. This report does not yet tell us, but Mr President has also made some promises when we have heard that when a criminal judge is dealing with horribly large criminal cases, tens of defendants, up to a hundred defendants, a lot of facts, the judge is extremely involved in that particular case, then that judge should have no other case until the matter is discussed. It is simply not possible to negotiate such complicated matters, to make valid judgments and to conduct a regular procedure if the judge has to pay attention to a thousand things. This is very often the case in the Western world, by the way, that in such a case the judge is relieved of the other charges, so I hope very much that if this has not been the case in 19 or so, they will be able to achieve this during the time of Mr President. Evaluation of judges. This, too, when listening to Mr President, I indicated that I think, especially in today's world, where there is a great deal of influence on people, and I must say that our nervous system and biological system are not prepared for this extremely accelerated life and world, judges are affected by the same environment as any of us. I'm sure my colleagues have come across the situation that, after a long time, they've met a judge again, and they've felt an amazing change in their behavior and conduct of trial, and we certainly have to say that, as in every profession, from the doctor to the teacher to the engineer, every profession has the potential to burn out, so can the judges. I ask, and I have not seen any evidence of this in the report, but as long as we are alive, we hope that you will begin a little more psychological examination of the judges, because there are two important things. One of them is the burnout. The other is, whether you like it or not, judging is a power. In that situation, he decides people's lives. Some people are being bred by this, who are becoming wiser, more understanding, more prepared, but some people who are not good at this power, not at their virtue and advantage, but rather at their power. The most important thing for citizens, however, is that judges are prepared to be dignified, just and professional, because they decide on human lives. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2021-02-16-142	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak, honourable Members? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I am now going to ask the President of the National Court of Justice, Mr. György Senyei Barna, if you would like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go. [[Dr. György Seneyei Brown: Should I go out to the pulpit?]] I think it would be best if everyone could see it and not just hear it. Come out, please. [[It's happening.]]
u2021-02-16-143	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Honourable Members of Parliament, There's obviously a lot of questions, a lot of questions, and I'm trying to answer the questions. Thank you, Mr Imre Vejkey, for your words of appreciation in relation to the reduction in the backlog. In 2020 the measures continued and will continue in 2021 to maintain the trend, and I hope that I will have the opportunity to present the year 2020 as soon as possible, where we can further describe the figures showing the reduction of the prolonged backlog, and they will continue to indicate a positive trend in the future. In the context of prudent farming, thank you for your recognition. We want to continue to be responsible in the future, keeping the form and priorities recognised by the Member. Congressman Bajkai has raised and underlined the importance of the. Via video. In this context, I fully agree with the points raised, and I will also respond to Mr Sebian-Petrovsk, if he will allow me to do so. The answer is clearly yes: it must be maintained, and it will be maintained, because this is the way of the future. I believe that if progress has reached a level, there is no way to withdraw from it and no need to. Congressman Csaba Gyüre outlined the role of time factor in court proceedings. There is no debate between us in this area, nor can it be, but the time factor is not only important in criminal proceedings, because, if you think about it, compensation is also a function of prevention, and therefore a well-founded timely decision is always necessary, obviously this cannot be a quick decision, because a thorough decision mentioned by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm may be the barrier to a hasty decision. [[19.00]] Thank you, Mr Csaba Gyüre, for taking down the dynamics of change for me. Indeed, it is not important to change decisions. We have not produced any statistics for this, because we all know exactly what the role of change is. There are two problems with the law-seeking audience and critics. If decisions are changed, this will be served as a problem, because they will change it, well, then there is no legal certainty, because there is a difference in the first and second degree judgment. This is a similar problem if there is a lack of legal certainty, because there is no different legal opinion between the courts and, consequently, an appeal forum is empty. So that's why I'm saying: the change, in my opinion, is right, the changed judgment in itself is a good judgment. If a judgment is changed, an appeal will result. This, in itself, is of no importance to the courts or the judicial organisation. I share the point: the internal structure of the cases has indeed become difficult for some of the cases, obviously not all of them. There's no room for generalization. On the whole, the internal structure was not heavy; it is part of some cases, when they are heavy, it is indeed very, it is without doubt a fact. And thank you very much for exposing the role of all our colleagues in the year's achievements. The legislative opinion is, moreover, continuous. The problems indicated, which the Member has indicated, I myself have indicated to the Ministry of Justice, indeed. A well-founded opinion is not a day or two, or a week or two, as a legislative opinion that really has a depth that can be used is the result of a longer process, but the legal opinion on the part of the OBH is continuous. Opinions will be synthesized, and the opinions of fellow judges with considerable experience and willing to do so will be channeled at all times. The point system: the point system is not perfect, but it needs to be. So it's an eternal problem of what the points in the point system are, what the benefits to be exposed are, in this the consultation is continuous. Obviously, everyone has a pro and a versus opinion. That's exactly what it's gonna cost. A good point system that everyone's satisfied with, we'll never find. After all, maintaining a dynamic balance is also problematic in this context. We will try to synthesize both education, education and experience in such a way that it does not cause significant harm to interests, but it will. But it will. After all, the changing legislative environment and changes in the material and procedural standard require continuous training and training, which is why, as outlined above, professional law training was also relevant. The extent to which this is to be acknowledged, we know this, and the human factor is also important, and the scoring. The Board of Judges is ranked and the opinion of the College is also relevant. These numbers are significant. There was also a bureaucracy reduction. The reduction of red tape is ongoing, professional work is redirected to the colleges, as the working groups have been terminated, where appropriate, affecting the year 2019, because working groups were terminated in December and programmes that were not closely linked to the case-law have been dismantled. We've already talked about retirement, Congressman, and I can't repeat it. Of course, from here, from this position, I will never say that there is enough pension and there is enough salary, because everything can and must be increased, but there must be a level of leadership, because if we are not on the ground of reality, it can also result in undesirable effects. I thank Mr László Varga for his critical words and optimism. Undoubtedly, and in general, I do not wish to expose this. In recent years, before 2019, many part-time tensions have accumulated, which has reached a new quality. Indeed, there were three million data protection fines. However, this has been sanctioned. I have the discretion of a leader in this place, and I do not wish to override it in a report, nor can I override it. The OBT referral and the National Judicial Council were presented to Parliament. This relationship has been evaluated. This is beyond my competence within the framework of a report. I fully agree with Mr Varga's point of view, but this has also affected the thoughts and words of all Members in general that they are independent. Judicial independence is a fundamental value, and precisely because of this preservation, it is of particular importance that the fading out of anyone in the search for rights nowadays, if they receive a judgment that they do not like, calls for independence. That is why, where appropriate, we say that critics should be careful. It is important to be critical of judicial judgments, and the fact of this is always acknowledged, but the criticism, I ask, if possible, not immediately to call for insubordination when I do not like the content of the decision. Mr Sebian-Petrovsk, Member, raised a question that took place in 2020. Mr President, with your permission, I would like to answer this idea concerning 2020.
u2021-02-16-144	Do it, Mr. President, do it.
u2021-02-16-145	Thank you very much. In the context of President Péter Tatár-Kis's presidential mandate, I would like to reassure Mr Sebian-Petrovsk of the following. Two applicants submitted applications in 2020. One of the candidates was Péter Tatár-Kis. You may remember, because you mentioned the press: in the Grupama Arena, the General Court held a meeting of judges. This was an all-judge meeting, where the majority of the judges supported Péter Tatár-Kis's application at the quorum meeting. The consequence of this was that he was appointed. Péter Tatár-Kis was appointed for six years, who was supported by the majority of the Grand Jury meeting, which was also known to you in the extra circumstances, because of the pandemic event in the football stadium. So it's not an assignment; it's a grant, and as a consequence, it's been appointed for six years, which you mentioned. Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to cover for 2020.
u2021-02-16-146	Yeah.
u2021-02-16-147	The additional points that Mr Sebian-Petrovsk raised should indeed be part of the 2020 report. The online option was left at the end of the proposals, but I have already answered that in the context of the question by Mr Bajkai. I would like to thank Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm for saying words of appreciation for the central region. We can say this now, perhaps, since the world is around the world, in the central region, in the 70-80s and every year, it has always had its role exposed to the volume of the case and the internal structure of the case. In this context, I would like to say that burnout has also been mentioned. Obviously, judges, if we start a little further, and we also take into account the principle of classic division of power in Montesquieu from the classic legislative, executive, and judicial power, is not a cliché, but the judicial power is one of the greatest, since who can decide on the fate of their child or detract from the freedom of a person; now, here is the importance of psychological selection, that it is precisely that psychological selection should take place properly, and that only a judge who does not carry personality marks that may distort a decision, if any. [[19.10]] Indeed, judicial independence is a decision-making independence, but it is not entirely possible to divide the argument that the law can be subject only to judgment and only to judgment. I am the only one who adds that there must be a very, very serious dependence on common sense, because judicial independence cannot mean formalism, empty formalism, but we have taken an oath to comply with and enforce the law, and therefore this claim can only be divided and divided. Madam President, you raised the fact that the diagram does not include the civilist case. It would be difficult to argue with that statement, yes. There is no normative obligation to draw a diagram in this direction, but I will also send you a similar diagram on the basis of the civilist case if you accept it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea nodds.]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you for listening. Please allow me to wish you further effective discussion, and I wish you all first and foremost good health. Thank you for listening.
u2021-02-16-148	Thank you very much, Mr President, on behalf of the Parliament as a whole. I will now ask the President of the Justice Committee, Congressman Imre Vejkey, if you would like to reflect. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2021-02-16-149	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, President Barna Seneyei, President Barna OBH, has basically answered the questions that have been raised, so I would like to respond to just one more thing, namely that all opposition speakers, for political reasons, have even now attacked former President Tünde Hando. It was attacked when the fact that the results of the OBH became outstanding at European level under the Presidency of former President Tünde Hando. Therefore, the attacks are unworthy, and I thank President Tünde Hando for his work, and I wish him good luck as a constitutional judge. And congratulations on the work of President Barna Barna OBH and his colleagues, and I wish you good luck and good health. And please support the 2019 OBH report and the relevant decision of the Justice Committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-16-150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2019 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision adopting it will follow up until closure. Report submitted by the Attorney General B/12207. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/13930. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt, the author of the report. Attorney General, please.
u2021-02-16-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. It is an honor for me that, in accordance with the laws, the plenary session of Parliament will continue this year to listen to the annual accounts of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Hungary, in this case from 2019. The written report has, of course, been available to all Members for months, so allow me to comment on just a few points that I consider important in my oral amendment. This was the first full year when the prosecution applied the new law on criminal proceedings which entered into force on 1 July 2018. The timely termination of proceedings, the application of institutions that divert from traditional prosecutions or which result in victim compensation are among the main objectives of the Criminal Procedure Act, and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has issued a number of resolutions of principle in connection with the new procedure. The effective and effective achievement of the objectives of the Law on Criminal Procedure required the treatment of criminal proceedings as a unit more than previously. The prosecution established its own law enforcement practice within the framework of the Procedural Law, taking into account this, in order to ensure that, despite the separation of criminal proceedings, the prosecution's activities at each stage constitute a coherent unit and can be implemented in accordance with the State's criminal needs. The new rules of procedure, as I have referred to, are generally said to have shifted the focus on criminal policy, at least in part, on traditional indictment to the use of diversionary and victimary institutions. The new law has strengthened existing trends in this direction. The aim can be summarized briefly: in a shorter period of time, with less social spending, but with guarantees, the application of the law should be carried out according to material truth. In this spirit, the new procedure attaches particular importance to the co-operation of the burdened, which is possible on the basis of its voluntary admission. This also determines the form of the indictment and the content of the indictment. The evolution of the prosecution and the number of persons involved in the prosecution in 2019 was also linked to the fact that, as a result of the legislative changes, the prosecution provided an even wider opportunity to avoid judicial proceedings than before. The legislative effort to improve the effectiveness of the procedures goes through the new law as a whole, and its enforcement has also led to a transformation of the procedural stages. Accordingly, the law divided the former single investigation into two different stages, the function of which is different. This is reconnaissance and investigation, the boundary is the suspect interrogation. During the detection phase, the investigating authority shall act independently and the investigation phase shall be managed by the prosecution. Accordingly, this system has changed the relationship between the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office. Reconciliation may be carried out with the full autonomy of the investigating authority and with the control of the judicial authority, while the investigation shall, under the authority of the prosecutor, investigate the prosecution of a specific person or the decision of any other measure, seek to obtain the necessary evidence. Of course, the work has also been influenced by the development of crime. Here, the fact that, as in previous years, the number of registered crimes continued to decline in 2019 is welcome: in 2018 it was 199 830, in 2019 165648. However, the interesting development is worth noting that despite the decrease in the registered total crime, the prosecution's criminal law case turnover increased significantly: in 2018 it was 744 603 and in 2019 it was 1 032 720. [[19.20]] The Be. In the period following its entry into force, including in 2019, the reasons for the increase in the volume of hundreds of thousands in the prosecution's file turnover are, on the one hand, the new system of Be., on the other hand, I would like to stress that I only covered a small part of it and that the detailed rules of the administrative system following the changes explain it. The criminal proceedings are known to begin with an investigation. The investigating authority shall immediately inform the prosecution of the investigation and decisions it has ordered, and the prosecution shall review this from a legitimate point of view, but only from a legitimate point of view, I would like to emphasise this. The prosecution received 324 651 decisions in 2019, which is also tens of thousands higher than the previous year in 2018. At the same time, the number of revised decisions has decreased substantially, due to the fact that I have just said, since only from a legitimate point of view can the prosecutor review the decisions and intervene in their formation. The D.A.'s office is not only overseeing the investigation, but you're investigating it. The new law on criminal proceedings also required the restructuring and strengthening of the organisation of the prosecution investigation. In 2019 there was therefore a significant structural change in the organisation of the prosecution investigation. The Central Investigator's Attorney General and the Regional Investigative Prosecutor's Offices are now investigating every case under the authority of a prosecutor's investigation. In addition, the Budapest Metropolitan Investigator's Office remains to perform certain specific tasks. The Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office has, of course, also dealt with corruption investigations in 2019 as a result of legislative changes, which has become even more pronounced with the entry into force of the new law on criminal proceedings. The reason for this is that the investigation of corruption crimes in the office has become a prosecutor's jurisdiction. In addition to the organisational changes in 2019, the prosecutor's office also tried to make it better by further strengthening its good relations with the various exploratory bodies and the National Defence Service. In addition, statistical data show that in 2019 the number of registered procedures in the prosecutor's office for corruption offences increased. The most significant measure following an investigation is an indictment which, as a public prosecutor, can only be decided by the prosecution. It is clear that the general requirement against the charge is that it is legitimate and justified. In 2019, the number of prosecutors' decisions on cases examined for suitability for prosecution was more than 83 thousand, and in 2018 it was about 5 thousand less. 56.5 percent of the cases under investigation were indicted by the prosecution, 22.8 percent terminated the proceedings, 9.7 percent applied conditional prosecutorial suspension and 3.8 percent referred to the case mediation procedure. According to the type of charge, it was as follows: in 8300 cases, the prosecutor filed a traditional indictment, in 6920 cases, the defendant was brought to justice, while in 27 633 cases he made a motion to prosecute. This shows in itself that in 2019 we paid particular attention to the rapid and effective completion of procedures, as 73.3 percent of the indictments were closed by process acceleration measures. This was also significantly higher than the results of previous years. In particular, a significant increase in the number of criminal offences should be highlighted. The co-operation based on admission, as I referred to earlier, determines the form of the indictment and the content of the indictment. The prosecution may also make a motion in the indictment to the extent or duration of the penalty or measure in the event of the defendant admitting the offence at the preparatory meeting. The D.A. filed 91 charges in 2019 based on a settlement in the course of the investigation, and in 3984 a motion for a legal disadvantage in the indictment if the defendant admits his actions at the preparatory meeting and waives his right to trial. In addition to these two instruments, which speed up the procedure, the institution of the court bringing the case quickly ends, which took place in 2019 at 14.7 percent of the total indictment. I have already told you about the criminal execution, this instrument is becoming increasingly important in the prosecution's practice of law enforcement, and we can see an increasing number. I believe that criminal execution is a very well-established legal institution, and has had its history before 2018, but since then it has been even more applicable. The reason for this can be found in Be.'s more favourable rules for the criminal procedure. It is also necessary to mention the mediation procedure: a conflict resolution procedure capable of causing the consequences of a crime in minor cases. We always try to take the interests of the victims into account, and the mediation procedure is, of course, in their interests. In 2019, the Public Prosecutor's Office suspended the proceedings in 4631 defendant cases for the purpose of carrying out mediation proceedings. Additional possibilities to avoid a judicial journey: termination of proceedings by reprimand or conditional prosecutor suspension. In 2019, the D.A. applied a conditional prosecutor's suspension against 9423 persons, which resulted in the termination of proceedings against 2,472 persons, so the prosecutor's decision was a successful one. In the course of prosecution, the prosecutor shall represent the State before the court. Contrary to the trend of previous years, I am pleased to say that, in 2019 as compared to the previous year, the number of cases settled by the court and the number of defendants involved in these cases increased, albeit to a small extent. In view of the fact that the number of registered offences has decreased at the same time, there are two reasons for this change. One of the reasons my esteemed colleagues have already mentioned in the previous ones is that the court has clearly passed a faster, more effective judgment in 2019 than in previous years. But in addition, I think that everything I have said so far confirms that the change can also be explained by the fact that, as a result of the new function of the preparatory meeting, the courts were able to take a decisive decision in a simpler and shorter manner. [[19.30]] This, I think, is an extremely good direction. Accordingly, the preparatory meeting has become, in practice, an important stage of prosecution activity where a number of cases could be completed. Another important part of the preparatory meeting needs to be highlighted, and this is the per concentration, which has also worked in practice. The preparatory meeting was the main forum for the submission of proposals for evidence. And then the result is that, at the preparatory meeting, 88 percent of the defendants who admitted to committing the crime were convicted in the first instance. I think that this is also a very, very good result at European level. I am going to discuss one thing again this year, and I have covered it every year, and this is that the caselaw, in our view, remains mild in some cases. These prosecutions are trying to change this by making an appeal to make things worse. The effectiveness of these appeals increased in 2019 compared to previous years, with 53,6 percent that year. I mention it, although we always argue about it, but I think that from one year to the next it is a comparative figure, that the indictment has also increased, in 2019 we registered the highest value of the last ten years, 98.3 percent. But even more important data, I said at the committee meeting that 85.1 percent of those who were charged had the same criminal liability as the charge or the final order in all respects. Better than that, I don't think the D.A. needs it from the court. The importance of the unity of law has been mentioned several times in the House today, which is also a priority for the prosecution. In line with the new Be., 2019 raised a number of questions about interpretation of the law, the Public Prosecutor's Office therefore supported the application of the law with guidelines and issued a number of opinions of a principle this year. Let me say a few words about the public interest attorney's work. In 2019, unlike the criminal field, no new legislative challenges were identified. The legislative environment has not changed substantially. The number of cases registered in the field increased by about 4.4 percent compared to the previous year's turnover. This was mainly in the area of legality control, which represents a major proportion of the public interest-protection complaint, but was outstanding in private matters, with a particularly significant increase of close to 21 percent. The majority of cases relating to legality control remain, as in previous years, infringement cases, where the prosecution exercises legal control over the application of the law of the infringement authorities. Our important task is to monitor the procedures of environmental authorities. In 2019 the number of priority actions in environmental, nature conservation and animal protection matters increased by more than 7 percent. We also paid attention to the enforcement of consumer rights in the reference year, which was not limited to the legality control of consumer protection authorities' decisions, and we have carried out several complex investigations in this area. In addition, we have also taken action to protect consumer interests, such as real estate companies, travel, used car trading companies and airlines. I must specifically mention the reliability test because the reliability test is closely linked to corruption. The purpose of this is to ensure that protected persons fulfil their statutory duties or may be corrupted. 1146 decisions were approved in 2019 and 7 criminal proceedings were initiated on the basis of reliability investigations. The shift in focus has continued in the area of private law, which has been observed in previous years towards business law and consumer protection. We also dealt with the legal operation of civil society organisations in 2019. It should be mentioned here that the prosecutor made use of a significant number of his powers to call for an end to the breach of the law, and this played an important counter-suiting role. The number of prosecution measures and successful prosecutorial measures increased nearly two and a half times compared to the previous year. However, the number of public prosecutors' initiatives to conduct company law enforcement procedures decreased significantly in 2019. I would like to mention one more area, and this is the submission of an application for the unfairness of standard contract terms in order to protect consumers' interests: we submitted 5 percent more than in the previous year. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] Among the non-criminal tasks, the field of judicial supervision and protection of criminal justice is outstanding. This is also an important area related to the assessment of the country. The prosecutors in the field have conducted numerous investigations, including a national investigation in this area. It can be said that the area of expertise was generally found to be legal and that measures were taken to address minor problems. A single thought about certain driver's licenses for the Attorney General. This is a legal remedy that can be presented in the interest of legality. When there is no other way to act against a final decision for the sake of legality, the Attorney General may do so. This was done in 18 cases in 2019. In 13 cases, the Curia shared the arguments set out in the appeal motion, and only 3 were unsuccessful and the rest were extended to 2020. A very important task I have to mention to the prosecution here, and this is to establish the nullity of convictions relating to the repression of 1956's Revolution and War of Independence. In 2019, in 13 criminal cases, 46 persons were proposed by the Attorney General, i.e. the Curia to issue such a certificate of nullity. We have also discussed legal unit decisions today in this House, it is extremely important: 5 legal unit proceedings were launched in the criminal sector in 2019, of which 3 have been launched by prosecutors, and three have been declared in legal unit procedures in the field of public law. [[19.40]] The international activities of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office are very brief. Cooperation with EU bodies is still a priority. I think that there is excellent cooperation with the Union, in particular with bodies that are somehow linked to the prosecution's work, including OLAF, which examines fraud affecting the financial interests of the Union in the administrative field. In 2019 OLAF made three judicial recommendations to the prosecutor's organisation, and in all three investigations were not ordered because judicial recommendations had already been made to ongoing investigations and these recommendations were attached to ongoing investigations. Moreover, in OLAF's cases, court judgments were also issued, in two cases the Court of First Instance delivered a non-final judgment in 2019, in one case a second instance procedure was concluded, and in one case the criminal proceedings at the Curia ended with a final judgment. I should also mention Eurojust, the Union prosecutor's organisation. The Hungarian National Agency performed outstandingly at Eurojust in 2019. In total, it acted in 386 cases, of which 250 were domestic initiatives and 136 were foreign initiatives. We are one of the Member States that most often use Eurojust and assist foreign partners in Eurojust. We have moved from previous 11th place to 7th place and 5th place. I have yet to mention the so-called joint investigation teams, which also operate under the auspices of Eurojust. In 2019 the Hungarian authorities participated in a total of 17 joint investigation teams. In the field of farming and informatics, I should mention that developments that started in previous years are taking place as planned. We hope that IT, unfortunately due to the pandemic situation, will show further rapid development in the coming years. Mr President, Dear House, Statistical data for 2019 show that the prosecutor's office has also worked legally and effectively during the reference year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-152	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, author of the motion for a decision. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-153	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, first of all, to welcome to the plenary session of Parliament Mr.Péter Polt and his colleagues with special respect. Pursuant to Article 29 ( 5) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Attorney General submitted to the National Assembly the B/12207 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2019 This report, which was discussed as a committee designated by the relevant Judicial Committee at its meeting on 24 November 2020, was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Fundamental Law, Hungary's prosecutorship is the sole enforcer of criminal law claims in respect of the Hungarian State, as well as other tasks assigned to it by the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Public Prosecutor's Office has also carried out its work in the year 2019 explicitly within the legal framework and in accordance with the requirements of timeliness. Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for you and your colleagues. Congratulations to all employees, because it is extremely important to be timely, it is extremely important that in such things, which are linked to the criminal code, to personal freedom, which basically define people's lives, the prosecution does its work in a short time, precisely, accurately and timely manner. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the course of the debate, the Judicial Committee explicitly welcomed the measures taken by the Public Prosecutor's Office to achieve the legislative objective in order to ensure the timely termination of proceedings, the application of institutions other than traditional prosecutions, and the application of compensation of victims. The Committee also paid tribute to the prosecution's work resulting in a reduction in the number of registered offences year after year. This trend was particularly striking in 2019, as this value was 19 percent less than in 2018, and it can also be said that the decrease was visible in almost all categories of crime. The sharp decrease in the number of registered offences is even more significant compared to 2012 figures. While 472 236 crimes were registered in 2012, in 2019 165 648 cases were reported approximately 65 percent lower than seven years ago. Although the number of registered crimes has fallen spectacularly, this does not mean a reduction in the prosecution's work. Due to the application of the new rules on criminal proceedings, the circulation of case files increased significantly by more than 25 percent. In 2019 alone, more documents were received in the criminal case than in the year 2018. This has put a considerable burden on the otherwise charged organisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the work of which will continue to be supported with sincere respect by the Committee. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Judicial Committee also welcomed the measures taken by the prosecution to reform the prosecution's investigative organisation system, which is justified by the implementation of its duties under the new criminal law law, in particular the procedures for corruption offences. Compared to the previous year, the motion for criminal prosecution was applied in more and more cases, in 2019 it was issued in 27 633 cases and 58,6 percent of the total indictment, which in 2018 was only 44.8 percent of the total indictment. The prosecution's effective work is shown by an increase in the number of indictments following an effective investigation. More than half of the cases received were indicted in 408 cases compared to 2018. This number is even more remarkable in the light of the fact that the number of cases which ended with the issue of criminal proceedings and bringing it to court has decreased significantly. The rapid and effective work of the Public Prosecutor's Office is also characterised by an increasing rate of closure at the preparatory meeting. The Committee also commends the fact that in 2019 the prosecutor's prosecution was the highest at 98.3% in the last ten years, and more than 80% of the court's decision was the same as the prosecution. [[19.50]] The committee also dealt with the public interest issues of the Public Prosecutor's Office. It concluded that, among its tasks, the prosecution continued to monitor the legality of infringement cases in the most prominent cases, in addition in environmental matters, in order to protect consumer rights and interests. One of the priority tasks of 2019 was to verify the legality of the treatment of prisoners. The Committee welcomed the findings of the Prosecutor's Office on the treatment of prisoners in Hungary according to international and domestic standards. The members of the committee raised questions on remedies against prosecutorial decisions, on the detection and prosecution of corruption offences, on the development of international relations with the prosecutor's office, on legislative proposals on the basis of their experience in the application of the law. The Judicial Committee concluded that the report also informed Parliament in detail of the various tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with criminal justice, its public liability, its statutory audit work and its work in connection with the enforcement procedures. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, at the meeting of the Judicial Committee on 24 November 2020 B/12207 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2019 His report was adopted by 8 votes to three, with no abstentions. Our Committee on House Rules 84. H/13930 submitted pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section H/13930. In its proposal for a decision, the Attorney General recommends his 2019 report to this House for adoption. Please support this report as well as the resolution proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-154	Thank you. I'm going to ask if someone would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, Then we will now have the keynote speakers. I give the floor first to István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Our European culture, our existence in Europe, rests on three large pedestals. One is the idea of freedom and democracy of Greek philosophy, the other is Christianity itself and the third is Roman law. Therefore, if I may, I would like to add to my speech a Roman legal sentence, which is a kind of slogan and guiding thought of everything I would like to say today in relation to the report by the honourable Attorney General. It says: "Iustitia est regnorum fundamental; modern translation: every state, every state is based on law. According to Article 29 of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent, and as a public prosecutor, the public prosecutor is the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim. The Public Prosecutor's Office pursues crimes, acts against other illegal acts and omissions, and facilitates the prevention of illegal acts. Article 29 (5) of our Fundamental Law states that the Attorney General is subject to an annual reporting obligation to the Parliament on the operation of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the year. As we have heard, the Judicial Committee has examined the report before us, which is extremely detailed, thorough and reviewable, and has found it acceptable, together with the addition of the Attorney General. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out that, under the leadership of the Attorney General, the prosecution was able to adapt as quickly and effectively as possible to the environment created by the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which entered into force on 1 July 2018, which had a significant impact on the prosecution's criminal law activities in 2019. The main objectives and conceptual innovations of the law can be summarised as follows. On the one hand, he wanted to respond to the wide societal need for timely termination of proceedings and for a more effective functioning of criminal justice. On the other hand, its main purpose was to bring the perpetrators of crime to justice in a shorter period of time and at less social expense, even at a higher level of procedural guarantees. In this spirit, the new procedure attaches particular importance to the cooperation of the burdened, to which voluntary admission may give rise. All parties to the proceedings and society as a whole are interested in this, as it can lead to time and cost savings on the part of the authorities in criminal proceedings, a lighter penalty on the part of the defendant, and a sure compensation on the part of the victim. In addition, I think it is important to mention the prosecution's work to promote uniform application of law, as the issuing of guidelines and resolutions for this purpose was particularly important in the year 2019, since the new Code of Criminal Procedure raised a number of issues of interpretation regarding the changed approach of the law and its new legal institutions. In the application of criminal law, it is essential that the prosecutor's authorities take the same position on controversial issues, which is also a major guarantee of legal certainty in the rule of law. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office issued a number of key resolutions in 2019, some of which I consider to be justified. In 2018, a resolution was adopted which defined the vulnerable situation of the victim of trafficking in human beings in a way much more humane and life-like than previous practice, thereby providing significantly more effective protection for victims of trafficking in human beings. In addition to this resolution, in 2019 the Attorney General published new guidelines detailing the circumstances and indicators which facilitate the identification of victims of trafficking for exploitation and thus the correct classification of offences committed against them. In its resolution on a specific case, the High Prosecutor's Office stated that crimes against property and against the budget also carry out corruption crimes, so that these crimes are a real set of crimes. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office also issued a resolution on the nature of the procedural acts interrupting the limitation period, the criteria for the questioning of a victim under the age of 14 and the interpretation of the law on the decision to restrict the right to access the defendant's file. Among the numerous positions issued in the field of the application of the new code, the most remarkable legal content is those which have provided guidance for the interpretation of the relevant rules in criminal proceedings concerning the involvement of minors. [[20.00]] This line is particularly supportive for the Fidesz Group, as the protection of children, ensuring their healthy physical, mental and spiritual development is all the more important for both the Government of Hungary and my fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the activities of the Attorney General are not only domestic, but also cross-border, because during the year 2019 Dr. Péter Polt participated, among other things, in the deliberations of the Visegrád Group's main prosecutors, received the Group of States Against Corruption, the GRECO delegation of the European Council, and negotiated with experts from the European Commission visiting Hungary in the framework of the European Semester. Within the international activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, he placed great emphasis on maintaining and strengthening his international relations, of which there is a significant participation by prosecutors in international training events for exchange of experience, inviting him as an expert, rapporteur, and posting abroad in specific cases for professional consultation with foreign partners. We are pleased that, in addition to practical work, the Public Prosecutor's Office devotes time and energy to the pursuit of the law and the pursuit of scientific and theoretical theoretical activities. In this context, I would like to point out that prosecutors are respected participants in legal scientific public life, their articles, studies, and personal professional books, university textbooks and other higher education and education publications. Everyone in the top management of the DA's office has a degree in science, 28 prosecutors and 16 other prosecutors, of which 5 are habilitated and 2 have a PhD in the Academy. 60 prosecutors, assistant prosecutors and prosecutors are students of different doctoral schools. During the year, researchers from the Institute published 69 publications, of which six were published in foreign languages. A total of 155 presentations were held at various conferences and professional forums, of which nine were delivered in foreign languages and eight were held at foreign conferences. A significant proportion of researchers are members or officials of national or international professional organisations related to scientific or scientific work, such as the European Crime Prevention or the International Society of Criminalology. Dear House, The report is supported by the Fidesz Group in view of the high quality of the prosecution's activities in 2019 as well. Thank you to the Attorney General for your work, thank you for the work of all the prosecutors, and we wish both the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office good health and good work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-156	Thank you. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Attorney General and Colleagues, Article 29 of our Fundamental Law states that the prosecution is the sole enforcer of state criminal claims. In this regard, the Attorney General has just said here that they have 98.3% indictment, which is constantly improving and getting better every year. Well, they won't have a chance to improve for a long time, by the looks of it, compared to 100 percent. But obviously it also includes that if you are his exclusive enforcer, and I usually say that in these hearings and reports, we have to start from not only what cases are being prosecuted and successful, but it would obviously be much more interesting if we turned this question around, so that when the prosecution does not press charges, what cases are not being prosecuted, even though it might be possible, even if it is possible to press charges. So this would be a much more interesting question, and unfortunately, these cases will no longer be able to go to a profession where a court can decide on which independence is more likely to be seen than we always see this independence in the D.A.'s office. That is why this would be a very important thing, because in many cases we do not have the means to carry out a spare private life in such cases, for example, because there are no investigative powers in the hands of opposition representatives, there are no opportunities, there are no financial means, there are no suitable professionals, and the rest, and the rest, and we would have a long list. When we highlight a problem, whether in Parliament or in the media, they always tell us, especially the pro-government representatives, why they do not like to press charges. Well, we're gonna press charges in a lot of cases. The opposition representatives have made a lot of complaints in corruption cases, but in general, 99 percent are always rejected, lack of criminal activity, lack of evidence, and obviously there are no means to carry out supplementary private cases with results. However, we do not have many other instruments, and there are many other problems, because the government and the two-thirds majority in Parliament have tried to take the opportunities that would, where appropriate, facilitate an investigation out of the hands of opposition representatives. For example, one of the first measures of Fidesz-KDNP in 2010, after the establishment of the Orbán government, was to eliminate the possibility of investigating committees, and in all cases where a two-thirds majority had passed a law on them, and with the power to do so, that in all cases where a criminal offence is suspected, no committee of inquiry could be set up. Obviously, this is also a way of preventing opposition politicians from moving corruption in any form towards or reducing liquidation, since unfortunately today we are talking about systemic corruption in Hungary, we are talking about state-level corruption, and we obviously have to look at it when we talk about it, and we obviously also have to look at the responsibility for who has responsibility in this. Obviously, I think that the government has the greatest responsibility in this matter, because not only does the political will not exist to eliminate the corrupt system in Hungary, but the movement of this system, the spring of the system, the power of the system is in the hands of the government or in the hands of politicians close to the government. Unfortunately, as long as there is no conflicting political will, there will be no change or change in this, there will only be further deterioration, as will be discussed later. That's one part of this thing. The other part is the work of law enforcement agencies to really, let's say, explain, in corruption cases, the kind of work that would be expected of them if they didn't have political guidance, political influence on these matters. We hope not, but in any case we see that such cases are not progressing, they are not very much on the table. The Attorney General used to say that it is very difficult to find out about these matters, to obtain concrete evidence. Obviously, it is best to detect these by secret service means, and it is natural that these devices are not in the hands of an opposition representative, nor can they be in his hands to find evidence in this form. But when the majority of governments are doing everything in their power to take the existing instruments out of the hands of an opposition politician, it is difficult to make progress in this, and we would expect the prosecution to do so much more effectively. Obviously, there have been several sets of problems here, which is our sling. What I would like to say here in particular is that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is also very much in favour of joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We would think that this would be one of the steps to start the eradication of corruption in Hungary, since the European Public Prosecutor's Office's most important task and practically its only task is to investigate the legal spending of European Union money, that there are no corruption cases in this spending. [[20.10]] And we do see it, and there wasn't an example of it, when even OLAF indicated the problems in this direction, and then the prosecution either didn't initiate proceedings, or if it did, it stopped it, because it came to a government-wide circle where it may not have been desirable to investigate further. And indeed, if there are such problems, people will see that corruption in Hungary is indeed systemic, and indeed the government is involved, and they are also afraid that the investigative authorities will also investigate matters with a lesser degree in relation to matters where leading politicians or their circles, do not give to God, they will reach family members. These are the problems that have led Hungary to a very high ranking in the world ranking of corruption. It is always said by the Attorney General that we should not consider this as a starting point, because this does not have much criminal relevance, and indeed there is truth in what the Attorney General says, because it is a perception of what Hungarian citizens perceive, and based on this assessment, the compilation of the world ranking for corruption and the establishment of the EU ranking for corruption are also important, but what people perceive is also important. Obviously, when we talk about how often crimes are, the most important thing is how the public feels, how they fear that they will be committed a crime against them or feel safe. Obviously, this subjective feeling is very important, and this statement shows this subjective feeling, the subjective feeling of the citizens, and on this basis we have certainly achieved what I predicted in several prosecutorial reports, in the main prosecutor's report, it was not difficult to predict that Hungary, if it progressed in this way, would sooner or later end up in the last place on the corruption ranking of the European Union countries, and indeed the Orbán government managed to achieve it, not by 2019, but only by 2020 but last year, but last year, we were only the first in the last year, and since then we have managed to achieve this, although we share these laurees together with Romania and Bulgaria, in the very last place, but unfortunately we got here. If we look at the countries that joined the European Union together with us, or joined the European Union after us, and see who has changed their position or status on this EU list of corruption perceptions, then we see that the first and least corrupt country is Estonia, which has improved 100 points to a maximum of 11 points, so it has taken a good enough step to bring it into the ranks of less corrupt countries. Then the second place was Lithuania, which improved 6 points, and was in a dead race with Slovenia, and Slovenia made 1 point worse, but started from a good place. Latvia has improved 8 points. Poland took the 5th place and made 2 points worse. Article 6 Czech Republic, which has improved 5 points since 2012. Slovakia has improved 3 points and has moved forward, becoming a less corrupt country. Croatia has also improved. Bulgaria has also improved. And in the last eight years, Hungary has made 11 points worse by the worst Poland, which has been able to make 2 points worse, we have 11 points, and that is how we ended up in a dead race with Bulgaria, Romania and the last place on the corruption rankings in the European Union. I believe that this is one of the most important indicators in which the Fidesz-KDNP, the Orbán government, brings Hungary to the European Union's disgrace with this, with such statements, and I think that the government has also given us the opportunity to come here, because it has done everything in its power to make this happen. And the indicators that brought the country here, and we are now looking at it in terms of the last year, can be seen as the impact of the Covid epidemic, since the epidemiological procurements were largely opaque, many times exceeding the need in quantity, overpriced purchases occurred in a large proportion; the epidemic accelerated the breakdown of the democratic institutional system; the deadline for responding to public interest data requests was extended; the Fundamental Law amended the concept of public money; a good part of public money was taken out of public money so that the opposition or a citizen could not examine where public money, obviously transparency, was lost. It's obviously not a prosecutor's job, because it's the legislation that brought it, so I don't blame the attorney general for the amendment of the basic law, obviously, but it's part of the fact that we got here. The public interest data is constantly being narrowed down, the circles of buddies, stromes and oligarchs receive special support; the public property is converted into private property by pumping public wealth into private property; sports subsidies are pushed in a priority way beyond health support. This is how we got to the point that in 2012 we were the 19th most corrupt country in the European Union of 27 members, and today we have managed to reach the last place, and unfortunately everyone thinks that corruption in Hungary is systemic, and that you will obviously deny it, and indeed it has a very serious impact on many things in the country. It has an impact on competitiveness, but it has an impact on emigration, but it also affects demography, innovation, it keeps it at a low level, a contrast, a protectionism working in the economy, and it has an impact on competitiveness, effectiveness, but it has an impact on education, health and very, very much. And unfortunately, we have come to Hungary today that many of the economic operators have unfortunately taken note of and live with this phenomenon, who knows who is taking advantage of this opportunity, and here would be more important for the prosecution. That is why we say that Jobbik Hungary has been saying for a long time that there is a need to set up an independent anti-corruption prosecutor's office in Hungary for a number of former socialist countries, and it works well. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] We have no political will either, obviously because the current two-thirds majority and legislators should fear that their circles, their circles of friends, their oligarchs, their family members could be placed in the front of this prosecutor's investigation, or in the front of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, or in the front of a separate anti-corruption prosecutor's office. I feel that until there is a change in this, until we can make a change in this, until the prosecution doesn't do everything and there are, of course, unique, exceptional cases, such as the Mengyi Roland case, the Simonka case, the Happy István case, which seems to break down a little bit the integrity of the Fidesz Members, but we see that the really big cases are constantly disappearing and will be swept under the carpet, there will be no change and no economic rise until then. And I think that one of the most important issues is justice, a state must serve the common good and justice, until corruption at this level in Hungary, unfortunately, will not happen. I would like to point out one more thing to the Attorney General, which I have asked you in the Judicial Committee, which my sense of justice also somehow cannot swallow, so-called poster-wrecking cases. [[20.20]] Obviously, we all know that the Curia has taken a decision to examine poster-wrecking cases and said in principle that this is not a free expression, but that it can do damage, obviously, depending on the threshold. Who did the D.A.'s office find? Let's just say there was a better man out of a hundred posters wrecks, and he found a better Member of Parliament. In a special hurry, we were able to investigate him. While hundreds of previous cases, which were organised by Fidesz activists to break down better posters, they were eliminated on the grounds of free expression. I have a question here with Mr Attorney General that, within the limitation period, in these cases, when the act was clearly recorded, and you or the investigating authority, the police have terminated these cases, have planned to recite them, plan to initiate criminal proceedings in these cases, as well as with my fellow Member, who might have painted a poster of Fidesz. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-02-16-158	Thank you. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-159	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me once again to pay my respects to Attorney General Péter Polt. I am very pleased that the prosecution's proceedings in Hungary today mean that the law is the cornerstone of Hungary, that the law is the cornerstone of the prosecution's proceedings. That is the fact, ladies and gentlemen, in contrast to what Csaba Gyüre has just said. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what has been said in my Commission President's Expo, but I would like to stress that the prosecutor's organisation has also done its work under the legal framework in 2019, keeping the requirements of timeliness. In addition to the above, the Public Prosecutor's Office has fully implemented its duties under the new Criminal Procedure Act and has adapted its system of organisation accordingly. In addition, the prosecution's performance is most prominent at European level. I would also like to congratulate Mr Péter Polt, Attorney General, all prosecutors and prosecutors on their work in 2019. We wish you further success and good health. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the general prosecutor's report on the public prosecutor's activity in 2019 and, of course, the relevant decision proposal of the Judicial Committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-160	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-161	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Looking through this report, perhaps it could be described as such a victory report, perhaps not as successful a year as this year 2019. In fact, anyone who reads only this report may think that everything here in Hungary is perfect, so there is simply no criticism or need to be given in connection with the prosecution's work. The Prime Minister used to say that self-gratification stinks, and this has not been taken into account very much, since no critical remark has been made about where it could be, where it might be necessary to achieve some sort of correction or efficiency improvement. And, in fact, it doesn't matter whether we talk about general crimes or corruption, in fact, all registered crimes are constantly decreasing, and the effectiveness of prosecutorial work is increasing for all factors. Therefore, virtually no element is mentioned in this report where there is some minimal deficiency in the performance of prosecutorial duties, there is no area where any improvement is needed at all. I was a little concerned that there was a greater growth in the case of stamp counterfeiting. But the rest is fine. This is, in any case, reassuring that the only main problem in Hungary today is that stamp counterfeiting has increased significantly in 2019. There's got to be something to do with that, I'm sure. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: Action plan!]] Yes, there is a need for some kind of action plan here, quite surely, as my fellow Member, DK, tells me. Then let me give you another element as an example. The prosecutor's office is also a leader in the fight against corruption in this report, and although it does not mention any names here, it also refers to some MPs or even local government representatives who have been investigated or prosecuted. Here, my better fellow Member has just said that this is a little bit of the Fidesz Members' previous inviolability to wear off, or as if this fabric were disintegrating, and it was as if they wanted to break this image down from PR reasons or something else. I would say my political layman's opinion from a certain point of view, my fellow Member: I think these Fidesz MPs were so stupid that they started stealing in such a stupid way that they couldn't even cover up what they were doing, because they did it in such a primitive, simple way that they could have robbed banks, and it would also be very difficult to miss. So I'm not sure whether the effectiveness of the prosecutor's work or the lack of political arguments and interests or opposition to it is the reason, perhaps these people were simply stupid, and they did rob the budget and EU funds instead of bank robbery, in subpoenas. I can be shorter in some respects, as my better fellow Member has spoken a long time about the corruption perception index and Hungary in this case. Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that this is somehow not the perception of citizens living in Hungary, as presented to us by the prosecutor's report or presented to Members of Parliament. So either there is a huge PR and marketing communication problem here, because people simply don't understand it, they don't see this fantastic efficiency and performance shown by the D.A.'s office, and then they should spend more on PR from the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, because then they just have to eliminate a simple communication error, or, if any, and rather, they would be betting on the second, probably people don't feel badly that the image that this prosecutor's report shows us is not so beautiful, because every day voters meet with very strong political interference in the Hungarian economy, whether it is from any area, there are very remarkable enrichments happening in Hungary from certain entrepreneurs. They're about to rise to Zuckerberg heights. And maybe the reason for this is that the particular entrepreneur, such as Lőrinc Mészáros, is smarter than Zuckerberg, but then I think it would be worth giving a cathedral at the university of economics, because then it should be taught that in a few years you can become the richest man in the country from a mayor's seat in a gas plant, and then you really have to set it up as an example for young people. But we may simply be talking about an oligarch, or an oligarch, who uses his friendly, human, political relationships, and, where appropriate, exploits this possibility in such a way. So what I see is that every day Hungarian voters experience that there are fantastic success stories for entrepreneurs or fidesz politicians close to Fidesz. [[20.30]] One inventor, the other, I don't know, must be involved in cancer research, and the fourth one's really lucky. On the basis of this report, it is likely that voters conclude that there is something wrong with regard to politics, the economy and the abuse of political power here in Hungary. It seems to many Hungarian voters, once again, that this may not be the reality, but it seems to them that there is some connection between the abuse of political power and the enrichment of certain people. If that is the case, the prosecution is likely to have a little bit of a hiatus here in terms of work, and perhaps not so successful and fantastic in terms of the fight against corruption, if we take government policy into account. We therefore support it, and I say this as a declaration that we should join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I do not want to talk about this for a long time, because there have been a lot of discussions in Parliament on this issue. We believe that it would be good for Hungary if the European Public Prosecutor's Office could investigate issues and abuses of EU resources. Let me just put one more question to your attention for the purpose of the minutes: in February 2019, the prosecutor's office rejected the complaint of three Members of Parliament who were abused in the building of MTVA on the grounds of a lack of criminal activity. Despite the fact that the investigation was, among other things, rather incomplete, because they did not listen to the victims or the security guards suspected of being assaulted, but in October, the Attorney General finally applied for the suspension of the immunity of our fellow Member of Parliament László Varju as a result of the crime of disorder and aggravated assault. So, in fact, the guy who was beaten was reported by those who were beaten, and they didn't even listen to the fact that they didn't do something wrong by accident. It's just a coincidence, so it's not intentional, but that maybe it's a good thing that you two are right to lie on a congressman to see if that's what it is and if it's legit. If a congressman has the right... then, of course, they've changed that rule. Since then, we have to check in about two years earlier, so that we can have an appointment for three years after that, so that we can go to the front desk. So it has now been legally written around to make it as difficult as possible for opposition representatives to be randomly informed about certain issues, but that was not the case at the time; then, quite drastic scenes could be seen there, in the headquarters of MTVA. I do not even doubt that there was a place in which Members of Parliament may have exceeded their margin of manoeuvre, their powers, I cannot judge, but that when security guards kneel to someone, thank God, not on his neck, only on his body, and subdue him to the ground, the Hungarian budget and Hungary are certainly not a completely normal circumstance in any public institution, especially in MTVA, which he retains with full public money. So we think that it might have been possible in this regard to mention another example in addition to corruption, to be more cautious. Especially if there is, at least in a large part of the country, let's say half of it is some kind of mistrust against the prosecutor's office. This is not a secret; this mistrust may have developed in opposition voters because of Mr. Attorney General's previous political involvement. This may be unfair, but it may also be an accusation that is unjust, but there is uncertainty and mistrust among voters. Therefore, on all such issues, when such a subject is on the agenda, it would certainly be worth paying attention, beyond the letter of the law, to the fact that this feeling is less widespread among Hungarian voters. It would also be worth considering how this can be removed, e.g. by not assigning party politicians to the position of the Attorney General. In the MSZP, my colleagues regularly draw attention to where they see problems or potential abuses in the work of the judiciary or in the prosecution's work, where they experience a political or real bias in the operation of the prosecutor's office. I consulted my colleagues, because I do not specialize in this topic, nor do I participate in this committee, but my colleagues claim that this situation has not changed since the previous period. That is why this report and Mr. Attorney General's exposé have not convinced us that we should change our position so far. Of course, it follows that the faction of the Hungarian Socialist Party will reject this report. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2021-02-16-162	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The Public Prosecutor's Office's report for 2019 is in front of this House, which we may have discussed in committee in no-vember, where we have discussed a number of professional issues, and some of them have now been discussed. I would consciously rather not bring these things up again. Not because I would have been satisfied with the reply of the Attorney General on the committee, but because the answer showed that we do not understand each other or that we will not understand each other in those professional matters. From prosecution, through the role of a preparatory meeting, there were a lot of things, and there it was said, we fought this debate, which the prosecution thinks is clear positive and the best in the world, and I think it is quite the opposite. Not by discussing the trend, not by discussing the scale, or by discussing it sometimes, but by interpreting the same signs in a different way. But I wouldn't want to talk about that right now. Why it is good that my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre and my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy spoke to him in front of me while I did not like him because a significant part of the topics are being shot down, but I am very pleased now, because in the first hour of this debate, it would have seemed like someone was watching us on the Internet, that this prosecutorship is the world's best prosecutor. In Europe, I'm sure, with a thinning pair. Either one of you, Mr Bajkai, or Congressman Vejkey, has told us how much it has an effect in Europe, even beyond the border. The best, the most beautiful things are really going here, the things that can only be highlighted are all good and only good steps and the like, and I really started to feel like I'm either not living in this country, or I'm blind, so there's something wrong with me, because it's not just my opinion, it's not just my party's opinion, it's not just the opinion of the opposition, it's not the opinion of a lot of people in this country. Not this one, gentlemen. I understand how well corruption is handled, for example, says the report, how well we are actually in corruption, and although it is difficult to define and catch up with corruption by its nature, there is such a semi-phrase in the report, if I remember correctly, but otherwise we are great in this area as well. Compared to this, people in this country widely believe how huge corruption is in this country. They don't think it's because they might hear it from government media or Fidesz media, oh, no. It's because, talking to people in everyday life, they realize that, yes, they've met corruption, and they know about corruption, just because nothing happens. There's no prosecution action, there's nothing going on, there's no conviction for the people in the community who know who do these things, but they know that because they're fidestly connected, they're protected, gentlemen. In this country, many tens of thousands of people are protected, so to speak, because of the local communities who will never be prosecuted while this government is in power. This is not because they belong to some separate sect, but because you are in power, my dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Parliament, and the prosecution works in such a way that it knows exactly who should be ordered and who should not be prosecuted and who should not be prosecuted. Or there will be no cases, Mr. Attorney General, I'll give you examples in a moment, so that you don't think I'm going to give you examples, even though I've had some very good examples, or I'm going to start cases, but obviously in the end, the termination is said, obviously pushed to another department, another office, another authority, which then cancels it. So the ends of things are washed away, and the end is that there is no result in that case. Everyone spread their hands that nothing happened here, you can move on. [[20.40]] I'll give you some examples. For example, DK reported on ventilators this year. Here, my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, said that it is true that there have been some suspicious events here during the epidemiology defense. We filed a complaint, László Varju was the one who reported us, and we thought that it was not okay, that there were absolutely obvious, clear data on how much it would cost to purchase a ventilator, and we even asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Health Service Center to obtain the quota. Even the two state players had a light-year difference in the price of the piece: one acquired a single ventilator for 19.8 million, the other for 10.8 million. Right now, they're gonna say, of course, because they're different types and they know different types. No, there was no difference. Still, what happened to the report? Did they investigate? Yeah. László Varju was heard because he thought that the representative should provide even more information to the prosecutor's office, and when László Varju said that there was really nothing more we can do than ask for data in a public interest request and present it to the prosecutor's office, the prosecution was terminated because of the lack of suspicion of a criminal offence. We filed a complaint, even though there was no living person in this world who thought it was okay to get the ventilator. The fact that your government is now doing what's more, after they've sensed that there's a surplus, that they've started selling this surplus, and that they've instructed the State Department's agencies to do so, shows that this thing has been so messed up. And the prosecutor's office says there's nothing to see here, so let's go on, it's a face toaster in itself; it's going to be in the 2020 report, of course. I'll give you another example. We all know the story, because in the fall, not so long ago we brought it up, that we sued Zsuzsa Hegedűs Prime Minister's Chief Advisor for her accounts showing her representative costs, which we did not have a court ruling on this, which is in the paper, because the Chief Advisor defended that these are data for her personal consumption, for her personal use, and that's why she doesn't want to publish it. Well, it ended in a lawsuit, and in the lawsuit, we sued these papers. What was in it? Well, he bought 30,000 forints chianti and 20,000 forints face cream from this frame, worth hundreds of thousands of forints, at several paces. We thought that if it wasn't unfaithful treatment, then what in God's name was this textbook example of unfaithful treatment. We filed a report. Did you get any of this? Yeah, it's done. The NAV's got the D.A.'s office sending over the file to ask questions. The NAV asked us, for example, if we knew what internal rules allowed us to use a reprieve in the Ministry. How would we, as opposition representatives, know? I'll add it. It didn't happen that they were investigating me or anything else. However, there is an investigation into the fact that the State Audit Office has reported DK, because in a SAO audit, we were unable to produce the documents that were destroyed in a fire that destroyed DK's headquarters. They're investigating so much that they were investigating even when the SAO was forced to admit last summer that, after all, DK has a paper like this, it's framed on the wall of my room, but it's still going on. I've just been in the witness hearing for a month now, and we're still investigating, because there's a very serious suspicion that some state property has definitely fallen into the wrong hands, and it's been misused. I know, Mr. Attorney General, the statement in which you're going to give a long description of why nothing happened in the Elios case. In particular, he says, if I remember correctly, that there was a very, very active investigation into Elios, and that nothing happened while tens of thousands of people, but I may not exaggerate if I say that there are hundreds of thousands of people in this country who live in a settlement where Elios renovated and gave the public light. You can't find one of them, but you can't even find a fidesz, so I'm telling you, who would tell you that it's brighter in the city, or that this lighting is better than before. But there is nothing to see about the Elios case, not to mention that there are already specific comparative analyses of overpriced or overpriced; I would be happy to send them to you by e-mail if you wish. One word, like a hundred: we live in a country where there will be cases by the prosecutor's office and investigations that are politically beneficial to them, to Fidesz, to the government, and there will be none that affects Fidesz. István Tiborcz can't be an investigation against him, it can't be a situation where anything happens to him, and anyone else who is connected to the opposition, or at least not on the side of Fidesz and the government, can be. Well, that's what we're saying, that the prosecution is politically motivated, that your work is politically motivated, that we clearly consider you to be the executive of Fidesz, Mr. Attorney General, and we're quite certain that when there's a change of government here in 2022, and we're obviously doing everything we can to make it so, we're going to put an end to this. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-164	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. For two minutes, Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP asked for a word. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-02-16-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The DK threats have been used to saying, in the course of their speeches, that in the film "A witness" we are sorry, this is not the indictment when they talk about 2022 and threaten civil servants, Members, Members of Parliament, but, well, we are used to this, what we would expect from the Gyurcsány Party. I consider Attila Mesterházy's commitment to be entirely justified, and all corruption cases must be investigated. I hope that he stood so firmly, say, at an MSZP fraction meeting in the case of Zsolt Legény, in the case of Kipest, in the case of Zugló, in the case of Sevíép. So I hope very much that Congressman does not double-check, by chance, and sweeps his own house, because we can see that there is something to sweep around the MSZP's house. We know the last time there's electricity theft in DK, cigarette smuggling in the MSZP, so there's enough cases here that can be brought from your side, but I think it's inappropriate to threaten public servants. Let us say that everyone in Hungary obeys the law, everyone is subject to the law, and everyone is bound by the law. As you well know, honourable Member, that, on many occasions in recent years, everyone has been entitled to the presumption of innocence when, in some public prosecutor's case, the immunity of any, whether pro-government or opposition, has been granted by Parliament to carry out the necessary investigations, and if we establish someone, the prosecutor's office and the judge's office have determined that someone is guilty, of course, to bear the consequences. These are the terms of the rule of law, and not the fact that you are calling someone guilty or not guilty on a political basis. I ask you not to apply double standards in this case and sweep around your own house. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-166	Thank you. I will also give the floor to István Bajkai, representative of Fidesz for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am trying to keep the time frame exactly, and I would like to recommend only two things to my fellow Members. On the one hand, you have before you the report by the Attorney General. I am very sorry that this has not been read, because if they had read it, they would probably have asked or commented on it. The other: indeed, my fellow Member has just said that we are rejecting any threats that you may have made against the Attorney General. If there's any denial of the rule of law, it's what you're doing right now. Now, the violation of the fundamental rules of democracy that we believe and confess to, which expressly deny the rule of law, is what you are doing here. Obviously, following the example of Ferenc Gyurcsány, they would like to make us all runaway, which also gives us some insight into your perception of democracy. [[20.50]] Csaba Gyüre, a colleague of mine who has been a lawyer for a long time, but I can answer Attila Mesterházy in a similar way, although I was not asked a question, that obviously the Chief Prosecutor will not give you information on a specific case that you would like, because it would be openly an intervention in the individual case, and even made a specific wish for what you would like in a particular case. There is no possibility of this in the rule of law, and I just want to make it clear to everyone. I would also like to refer to the so-called corruption list. There have been long debates about this, it is pointless to tell you that corruption as such is not in this form in the Criminal Code, but the concept of corruption is much wider than the figures set out in the Criminal Code. So when you're talking about something, I want you to at least know what you're talking about, because apparently there's a mistake. If you'll only allow me half a sentence, I'd like to tell our fellow Member in Sebian-Petrovsk that if you want to know [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] What the D.A.'s job is, what the legal certainty is, give it a try in the suburban district of Paris, if you walk with your partner, and then you'll know it. [[The president's ringing again.]] what security is like [[László Sebian-Petrovski: I walked! It's perfectly calm.]] In Hungary, and what security is in the outskirts of Paris. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-168	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were received. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Polt, Attorney General, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Attorney General.
u2021-02-16-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to say a few things very briefly in connection with the debate. On behalf of the committee, I thank Mr Vejkey for his sentences in the line of speeches. All members of the prosecutor's organisation will, of course, be informed of the recognition that the congressman has given here. I would also like to thank Mr Bajkai for his words. He said that every state is based on law. This has been formulated several times with regard to the prosecutor's office. Now 150 years old, the modern Hungarian prosecutor, Sándor Kozma, the Royal Attorney General of Pest, said that this institution, the prosecutor's office, is the guarantee that Hungary will be classified as the state of law. That was 150 years ago. I agree with that right now. Thank you for noticing the importance of the guidelines. I think that the legal unit depends to a large extent on the direction the prosecutor's office is going, and these guidelines served the legal unit well in Hungary. Unfortunately, I couldn't cover juvenile cases, but it's an important area, since in 2019 we were faced with 7863 minors. Our future is youth, we must pay great attention to it, and it is not by chance that even in the practical structural changes it has not come up with, the opposite has been the case that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office should eliminate the separate department that deals with juveniles. We plan to strengthen this in the future. I also think it is important that what has also been said is that there is also a serious professional scientific activity going on in the prosecutor's office. We support this, we consider it important, it is essential for the comparison of law, and it is really the way you said it, and it was not exaggerating that the activities and results of the Hungarian prosecution were internationally recognised. Hungarian prosecutors are often asked to be experts not only in terms of scientific values, but also in the various investigations in the European Union. Congressman Csaba Gyüre: arraignment, old issue. Now he's brought up another slice, but it's been mentioned several times, to see what's going on with the cases that won't come before the court. Mr President, Mr President, you have also mentioned that there is a possibility, an institution of substitute private property, which I agree is obviously not supported by evidence in a state investigation, and it is not always possible to raise your spare private life. However, it may be a sign of some kind to your own right that if you are raised, it will be ineffective in exactly the same proportion as the prosecutor's charge, so you can record a 1-2-3 percent result with all the correction factors that the Member mentioned. That's an indication. However, I can give you more serious testimony that the prosecution will always press charges where the law will allow it and make it mandatory. The Member specifically mentioned corruption cases and the particular problem with prosecution and prosecution of prosecutors. It has been said several times today, and I have also referred to OLAF, the European Union's department that protects the European Union's budget from an administrative point of view. You were wrong to say, Congressman, that we are failing to comply with OLAF's recommendations. We'll do it in any case. In any case, an investigation will be initiated if OLAF makes a judicial recommendation. And here's the point: in Hungary, OLAF recommended cases, so where we started an investigation following the judicial recommendation, we have a 47 percent indictment rate. The EU average is 39 percent. If we compare these two numbers, I wouldn't say we're the ones who won't press charges. We're obviously at the forefront of these indictments, supported by data. This contradicts what Congressman has assumed. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] He mentioned the secret service tools that could be good for exposing corruption cases, and I agree. I emphasized that several times myself. I am pleased that the confidence assessment, which previously existed only in the sphere of office, has been broadened by the prosecution's proposal. This was extended to the economic sphere recently by the legislator. I very much hope that this will have a positive result, and by using these instruments, we will also achieve better results in the economic sphere in terms of the repression of corruption. Several brought up the corruption perception index, the so-called perception index. The Member also referred to the fact that he knew that they did not give full feedback, but they did mean something. [[21.00]] So, the situation is exactly what the Member was aiming at, and we must also stress that corruption perception is not the same as corruption, and in particular it is not the same as the concept of corruption in the criminal sense of corruption. Let me give you an example. The report is in 2019, but I would now go beyond this: In June 2020, the Eurobarometer, which I hope will not be called into question, carried out a survey of corruption in Hungary. The Eurobarometer is the official organisation of the European Union for public opinion polling and this Eurobarometer has found that the proportion of health corruption victims in Hungary is overwhelming. This is 13 percent, by the way, economic corruption is 3 percent, and official corruption is 1-2 percent. The latter figure is the same as for Western European countries. I'm just saying, by the way, that's what we're investigating, the D.A.'s office. So in the perception index, the population has raised the level of corruption due to health corruption. Medical corruption, if translated, was not considered a criminal offence to be persecuted until January 2021. So to make us account of this, I think it's not just not fair, but it's not objective. So we should pay attention to these concepts a little bit, because without clarifying them, we can achieve wrong results. And as for the poster damage, Mr Ceterum censeo, Member, has repeatedly brought up his case, I can assure you that in all cases that are currently considered criminal, the prosecution will proceed and will continue to act in the future. I have already dealt with Mr Vejkey's contribution as Chairman of the Judicial Committee, so thank you once again for what he has said. By the way, you are right that this is also an outstanding result in international comparison, but we also attach statistical importance to this, but this also shows something. Mr Mesterházy said that the report on the year 2019 was a victory report. Unfortunately, I have to say that the facts are stubborn. So what is in that account is irrefutable, objective, and true, as it is in it from the first word to the last point, and it is supported by quite a lot of graphics. Anyone who doubts what's written there should put something that denies it on the table. There's no denying that. These are based on objective statistical collections that have been collected for decades, collected using the same methods and produced this result. That's it. By the way, it's not true that we're happy with everything. To give just one example; even here, I said that in my oral amendment. We are not satisfied at all with the effectiveness of the prosecution's appeal when it comes to aggravating penalties. That is hardly more than 50 percent, and we would like to raise this much better, so, for example, there is still a lot of work to be done here, but there is also work to be done in other matters, even in corruption cases, because we are not satisfied with that, just as we are not satisfied with budget fraud cases, nor are we satisfied with official crimes. Here's what we're gonna do, and we're gonna do it. And I assure the congressman that where, as I just said, you can press charges, we will press charges. The law states that it is possible to press charges if the prosecutor is satisfied that the crime has been committed and has been committed by someone who can be brought to justice. That's always the case. And as far as suspicious enrichment is concerned, it is also a crime, and it is a crime if it is included in the criminal code. We are law enforcement, and we apply the law as required by the law. If we violate this, we can be called to account, if we do not offend, but we do not. Member Mesterházy has also brought up matters which are not in 2019 or actually do not belong here as specific matters. What I can tell you is that you've also said cases where there's an indictment and you're in court. The court will decide what the investigation was like and give you a detailed explanation of your decision. Let me tell you something else, because here we often make the mistake of throwing in slogans that sound so good. This is also what I consider to be the case when someone says that this was Mr Mesterházy, a Member, that trust in the prosecutor's office has been shaken, that in corruption matters it is not the performance that the general public, the citizens, rightly expect of him, and that is an unheard of thing. Yeah, it's unheard of, and it's not like that, anyway. If I have mentioned before: if someone refers to something, it may be a professional illness for me, then tell me why he refers to it, because otherwise we will go to the same place as in the sense of corruption perpetuation, that what we think is wrong, but that which is not in reality. I mentioned the Eurobarometer survey. I would also add Transparency International's survey on the same subject. I hope, Congressmen, who have challenged the prosecution's work, trust this organisation as well. Both came to the conclusion that citizens have the greatest confidence in judicial authorities, including the prosecutor's office, in such matters. I have this kind of information, unlike what Congressman Mesterházy said. Congressman Sebian-Petrovsk made it easy for me. He said he wouldn't deal with professional issues. I'm here to give a professional report and answer professional questions to the best of my knowledge, so I can't answer anything he has said because he has kept his promise and he hasn't dealt with professional questions. I refuse, however, that the D.A.'s office has ever chosen or chosen between cases. This may have been the case 30 years ago, indeed, for sure, but this has not been the case since then. As far as the specific cases are concerned, then, when the period is reported, they will obviously be listed in general. [[21.10]] Dear House, Mr President, I think that one of the most important things in a country is legal certainty, and the prosecutor's office is, as it were, a gear without which there is no legal certainty. That is why the prosecutor's organisation works day by day, and I can firmly state that it is fulfilling this obligation and its task. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. I am now going to ask the rapporteur of the Justice Committee, Congressman Imre Vejkey, if you would like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2021-02-16-171	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Supreme Prosecutor has made my situation easier because he has answered specifically, in detail, the questions and concerns raised by all the keynote speakers, and so I will only have to reject the unfounded assumption raised by left-wing parties that the prosecution would be politically motivated. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: No, no!]] The fact is that the Hungarian prosecutor's office is independent, and this seems to be disturbing the left-wing parties for some reason. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-172	Thank you, too. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the announcement of the agreement on cooperation in the field of military aviation until its closure. The government referral is T/14940. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-02-16-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of our bill is to recognise the binding scope of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on cooperation in the field of military aviation. In NATO's integrated anti-aircraft and missile defence system, the air space sovereignty of NATO, continued responsiveness, and anti-flying equipment that violates NATO airspace, which engages in hostile activities or violates the flight rule, are provided by the sum of the air defence equipment of the nations serving the air defense response service. The basic rules of this integrated air defence and missile defence system are adopted with the approval of the North Atlantic Council, i.e. with the agreement of all NATO Member States, by consensus. These rules shall specify in detail the possible steps against the airspace infringement, the powers of the designated NATO commanders, and shall also indicate in these documents if the nations have any reservations. At the same time, there is a need for a legal relationship between the two Member States cooperating in the surveillance sector at public level, which regulates the issue of authorisation and the details of the defence activities. NATO itself cannot order a country to open its airspace to aircraft operating in another country's airspace police, so NATO expects neighbouring countries to settle this issue in bilateral agreements. In view of the spirit, objectives and requirements of the federal directives in the integrated system and in relation to the airspace police, our country has already agreed with several neighbouring countries or has entered into negotiations on cooperation in the field of airspace security. A bilateral surveillance agreement was reached with Romania, which entered into force in 2008. With Slovenia, through the amendment of the Agreement between the two countries on military cooperation in aviation and air defence areas signed on 17 January 2014, as NATO allies, from 2014 we will provide our neighbour with an Italian rotation to protect the airspace. The bilateral agreement was signed with Croatia on 8 April 2019, which was signed in Hungary by LII of 2019. It's been announced by law. After several years of negotiations with Slovakia, at the end of last year, on 30 November, we concluded an agreement to be announced now and recommended for the adoption of the Parliament. The main provisions of the latter agreement are the following: its preamble sets out aviation safety as its main objective. The agreement facilitates the efficiency of the cooperating Air Defence Emergency Force, lays down rules for the implementation of the airspace police and provides for the cooperation of personnel in training. Allow me to mention a few things in detail. Aircraft involved in the airspace patrol shall not be required to submit a diplomatic licence and a flight plan. The use of armed forces shall be subject to the rules of the integrated anti-aircraft and missile protection system. It refers to the NATO SOFA agreement in force between the parties. On the date of entry into force of the Agreement, LXXVI of 1998 on the ratification and publication of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on military cooperation in aviation and air defence fields, signed in Bratislava on 4 February 1998. Law. Dear fellow Members, The Hungarian-Slovak air defense agreement is based on the fact that the governments of the two countries have signed the Convention on cooperation and mutual assistance in the event of disasters. Secondly, since the entry of the two countries into NATO, both parties have participated in one of NATO's most important missions, the so-called integrated air and missile security system, which guarantees airspace sovereignty, which is culminating in airspace security tasks. Both countries are bordered by NATO's air defence systems in the northern and southern regions, which is why cooperation and so-called interoperability between air defence systems in both countries are of paramount importance; this means coordination and cooperation between IT systems. This can only be achieved by establishing the legal, social and military bases for cooperation in addition to NATO's rules and air defence procedures in framework agreements. It is very important in this respect that we also record how and how aircraft carrying out armed surveillance tasks can enter each other's territory, which rules should be complied with when using airspace in the event of a particular critical situation. [[21.20]] It is also important to consider how to cooperate between air forces in both countries in the case of exercises and training flights. It has also long awaited clarification as to how mutual air transport tasks should get complicated, what procedural rules should be followed, and how compensation should be made. Another essential element of the contract concluded is to clarify the basis for reciprocity in the cooperation of research and rescue services and in the complementarity of each other. Since each country in this area takes into account its own special circumstances and uses its own aircraft, it is important to lay down the basics on how to inform each other, make use of free capacity, make use of it, alert each other's systems, and rapidly authorise flight plans. It is also an essential element of the contract that provides for the possibility of participating in the investigation of aircraft accidents in both countries in respect of their own assets, despite the fact that both countries use different organisations and often different methods. It is also very important that, in cooperation, we can exchange experiences, which we know and integrate into our own operating procedures, and reduce the risk of safety. One of the very important elements of the treaty is the so-called mutual exchange of information. The information and notifications in the identified areas are a regulated channel of cooperation between each functional organisational element. Air transport was a somewhat controversial area of the past period. In particular, it was more focused on us, as the Hungarian Defence Office had only minimal air transport capacities, and therefore relied heavily on the free capacities of the Slovak Air Force, especially when switching missions. The agreement signed by the two ministers provides a framework for both parties to provide information on each other's options. Current developments in relation to the capacity of the two countries open the scissors between possibilities and alternatives. Hungary took advantage of this. On the other hand, the guidelines of the accounting system, which the Slovak party has taken a great deal of weight, have been returned to the agreement; this is a win-win situation, which has developed here in the agreement. It should be stressed that the cooperation agreement signed by the two ministers provides a framework for the conclusion of detailed technical agreements or conventions by the air forces of the two countries. NATO's capability development and defence planning is a prerequisite for the coherence of allies' defence planning, and it is therefore a priority for our country to maintain, operate and develop capability-based planning in accordance with NATO in national defence planning. The NATO commitments of the two countries are close to the same. Both countries are involved in the surveillance of airspace, which is carried out with the available own radar. Both sides implement this independently, but the identified air position image created by radars is replaced by the two countries in the NATO system. Cooperation is also carried out on a daily basis between the management points of the air management and management systems. This will provide an opportunity to clarify problem flight cases and civil traffic problems. In the same way, a pair of aircraft shall ensure the sovereignty of airspace over the territory of both countries. In the NATO response plan, Hungary and Slovakia belong to a group of plans, complementing each other. The plan also covers the requirements arising from the capabilities of the two countries. Dear fellow Members, Hungary prioritises Central European military cooperation, which is primarily framed by V4. One of the main objectives of this is the coordination of defence planning and capacity development, which is one of the priorities of the V4 defence cooperation, which was revised in 2020. In line with this, V4's defence cooperation should continue to be an important element in coordinating the capabilities made available to NATO and the EU as well as its activities in the area of NATO and EU capability development initiatives, starting and implementing our so-called joint projects. In the case of air forces in the countries, they coordinate their activities, participate in each other's practices and achieve the objectives set by the current presidencies. Ladies and Gentlemen, Fellow Members! After the left-wing amok run of the Hungarian Army, the half of the army, the closure of barracks, military colleges, the evading of military technology, the destruction of combat morale, military capabilities, including air defense and the elimination of the Hungarian military industry, the time finally came, when the Government of Viktor Orbán not only morally but also supported the reconstruction and development of the defence with billions of budgets and actions. There are almost no weeks when news of the acquisition or production of combat cars, transport vehicles, aircraft, helicopters, handguns, artillery becomes reality. The Zrínyi defence and military development program is implemented in front of the Hungarian people, under the permissions and control of the Parliament within the framework of public transparency. In parallel with the development of land forces, the air force has started to modernise, including air defence. The lack of transport and response generated by the pandemic situation has highlighted the importance of creating independent national capabilities. Whether it is land or air capacity, it can be assured that it can carry out the tasks entrusted to it during a pandemic and in other dangerous situations. The defence and military development programme has set no less objective for the Hungarian Defence Forces than to guarantee the protection, sovereignty and security of Hungary under all circumstances. Dear fellow Members, The agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on cooperation in the field of military aviation is also an important milestone in the progress achieved so far. I ask you to support this agreement. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-16-174	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, the lead speaker of Fidesz, is the first. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The cooperation between Hungary and the Slovak Republic, based on a common history, is increasingly important. Since the declaration of 1991, we have achieved outstanding diplomatic, political and economic successes as members of the Visegrád Group, which contribute to the protection of our democracies and the elimination of the remains of the communist regime, and have also promoted our successful Euroatlantic integration. The new objectives are based on long-term cooperation, which provides for closer economic and appropriate foreign and security policy plans to implement the principles of NATO and the European Union. The coronal virus epidemic has shown that our country is always ready to provide protection, so 200 Hungarian health workers have participated in the national coronal virus testing conducted by the Slovak army in November. However, safety and the protection of citizens are important not only on the ground but also in the air. Thanks to our cooperation, we have acquired a number of shared experiences, we have made information more effective, and the flight has become much safer, thanks to which we have prevented emergencies. However, our country is not only a success for its partner, it is also showing solidarity in the problem. We consider the disaster in Hejce on 19 January 2006 of the plane An-24 of the Slovak Air Force to be our common tragedy, and we share the grief of the family members and comrades of the 42 deceased. Ladies and gentlemen, Increasing the efficiency of NATO's integrated air defence and missile defence system, the feasibility of airspace police tasks and ensuring each other's safety are in the same interest as NATO Member States and the Alliance, which is based on cooperation between neighbouring Member States. This is cardinal for countries whose population and forces are significantly below the same data from certain Member States and other countries. NATO's strategic objectives are therefore in line with the interests of Hungary and the Slovak Republic, and we would therefore like to cooperate more closely in the tasks related to the integrated air defence and missile protection system of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, mutually beneficially and with binding effect. In this context, the parties could use the airspace of the other party, carry out jointly the tasks of air defence and related practical activities, engage in military and air transport activities together, and hold cross-border training and exchange experiences. Such agreements are not only necessary but also have a number of positive effects on the development of Hungary's military forces and diplomatic relations. The Fidesz Group supports the publication of the agreement. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-16-176	Thank you. Now it's time for Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2021-02-16-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The agreement contained in the proposal is not specific, as we have a similar agreement for a number of neighbouring countries. As NATO members, in peacetime, we made a commitment to stand-by airspace protection. This agreement is not a NATO standard, but is concluded between governments of neighbouring countries. As an example, we have similar intergovernmental cooperation with Romania and Slovenia. [[21.30]] Slovakia should be highlighted in this respect, as yesterday we adopted a declaration on the 30th anniversary of cooperation between the Visegrád countries, in which we appreciated the close and effective cooperation of the four countries. Following the creation of the V4s, a number of common objectives were set, one of which was accession to NATO and military cooperation. With this step, although both countries are already members of the North Atlantic Alliance, we can take another step towards close cooperation. Let us not forget, however, that this agreement opens up the possibility for Hungary to protect air beyond the borders of Hungary, but within the national border, as it is also about the air protection of the Highlands. On behalf of the EPP Jobbik, of course, we support the initiative, which will ensure not only air protection for people living in Hungary, but also for our fellow nations across borders. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-02-16-178	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, lead speaker of KDNP is coming. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You have presented the bill in very detailed detail, and I would like to highlight three objectives of the agreement, which is important. On the one hand, to manage the conditions for cooperation between military aviation and, on the other hand, to establish the main regulation of cooperation and also to establish a framework for the training of air force personnel in order to implement the objectives set out in the agreement. As the Secretary of State stressed, there is a need for a legal relationship between the two Member States cooperating in the airspace police system at public level, which partly covers the issue of licensing of border crossings on a public-law basis and, on the other hand, regulates the details of the activity. In the case of NATO's mandate, it is represented in NATO decisions and NATO rules; it is not in NATO's order, but it takes the form of bilateral agreements in cooperation following NATO's rules. It is important, and my fellow Members also stressed, that there is a bilateral agreement with Romania on the surveillance of airspace, which entered into force in 2008, and military cooperation with Slovenia in the aviation and air defence fields in force between the two countries since 1996. By amending this Agreement, we will provide the protection of Slovenian airspace together with Italy as NATO Alliance from 2014. With Croatia, such an agreement was signed in 2019 and it is also necessary to conclude the agreement with Slovakia as a neighbouring NATO country, so KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-180	Thank you, too. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, here you go.
u2021-02-16-181	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State has precisely summarised the substance of this proposal. My fellow Members have further detailed this, so I have nothing left but to announce that the Socialist Party supports this proposal for domestic, national and NATO purposes. Thank you.
u2021-02-16-182	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Would anyone else like to speak, honourable Members? [[No signal.]] No, and that makes sense. [[Defiance.]] So I have nothing left but to close the general debate and ask Mr Secretary of State as rapporteur that he wishes to reflect.
u2021-02-16-183	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to thank the factions for their supportive attitude. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-184	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I have the opportunity to present the amendments to you by 4 p.m. on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the opening of an agreement between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the termination of an agreement on the protection of investments until closure. The government referral is T/14942. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Pacsay-Tomassich Orsolya. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-185	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament,
u2021-02-16-186	Just a minute, Madam Secretary, because there's no sound in your microphone. [[Dr. Pacsay-Tomassich Orsolya: Or maybe the mask is shielded. Is that okay?]] I don't think the mask knows if you're wearing a microphone or not. [[Dr. Pacsay-Tomassich Orsolya's name appears on the scoreboard.]] But now technology does. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-187	Is it okay now?
u2021-02-16-188	Yeah.
u2021-02-16-189	Great, thank you very much. Well, thank you again for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to fulfil Hungary's obligations arising from its membership of the European Union and to implement a judgment binding on the Member States in the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please allow me first to briefly explain the content of the judgment on which the bill is based and its legal consequences for Hungary. The Court of Justice of the European Union delivered its judgment on 6 March 2018 in the Slovak Republic v Achmea B.V. According to the court, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is contrary to the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements concluded between Member States. According to the arbitration clause, if an investor in a Member State of the European Union invests in another Member State and there is a dispute over the investment, arbitration proceedings may be initiated against the Member State of the Union concerned. According to the court, the arbitration clauses set out in the bilateral investment agreements within the EU, described above, between investors and states, are contrary to EU law, as they undermine the system of redress provided by EU treaties and jeopardise the autonomy, effectiveness, priority, direct scope and the principle of mutual trust between Member States. In order to implement the Achmea judgment and to establish a coordinated action at EU level, Member States have undertaken to terminate all their bilateral investment protection agreements, plurilateral or, if so, in more effective bilateral ways. In order to eliminate bilateral investment agreements between Member States in an orderly manner, a multi-faceted international agreement between EU Member States has been negotiated. Hungary was also actively involved in the negotiations, fulfilling its obligation under EU law. As a result of the negotiations, a multifaceted agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union, which were signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020. This agreement was signed by a total of 23 Member States, including Hungary, which was decided by the 2020 LI. It's been announced by law. It is important to note that Finland, Sweden, Austria, Ireland and the United Kingdom have not signed this multifaceted agreement for different policy purposes. Our country has previously concluded bilateral investment protection agreements with Finland, Sweden, Austria and the United Kingdom, which need to be closed bilaterally. Finland made a proposal by sending an oral list for bilateral termination, signed on 6 June 1988 in Budapest and in accordance with Article 91/1989. The termination of the agreement between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the protection of investments by mutual agreement, published by the MT Regulation. Under the provisions of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Contracts, it is possible to terminate the investment protection agreement in this way on the basis of mutual agreement between the parties. Accordingly, the oral list of Finland and the reply list of Hungary together constitute an agreement on the termination of the investment protection agreement between the two States. Under the Hungarian legislation, the power of the Parliament is required to accept the termination of the international legal obligation in question by the Hungarian party. [[21.40]] The termination should be ordered by law and the replacement of the register containing the termination by mutual agreement should also be published in the same law and the repeal of the earlier publication legislation should also be provided for. The agreement which is the subject of this bill results in the termination of the investment protection agreement between Hungary and Finland. One of the main functions of the agreement is to fix the termination of the expiry provision of the termination agreement without any further legal effects, thereby ensuring that the bilateral investment protection agreement is not capable of producing additional legal effects after termination. Dear Parliament, By concluding the agreement, Hungary is fulfilling its obligation under EU law, and I therefore ask the honourable Members to accept the bill. Thank you so much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-190	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Keynote speeches are coming: Congressman Barna Zsigmond is the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The oral list of Finland's Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent on 25 August 2020 proposed the termination of the Investment Protection Agreement between our countries signed in 1988. Our North Partner has signed the contract in question with the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic, and it is therefore timely to review this outdated agreement from the 33 years since then. However, the main reason for the international legal action is that according to the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the investor-state arbitration clauses laid down in bilateral investment agreements within the EU undermine the system of redress provided for by EU treaties, thereby endangering the autonomy, effectiveness, priority and direct scope of EU law and the principle of mutual trust between Member States. In order to comply with Union law, Member States have undertaken to terminate all their bilateral investment protection agreements. The termination of the investment protection agreement before us therefore ensures consistency with the legislation of the European Union. It is also an important part of the international agreement in question that paragraph 2 provides that the Parties to this Agreement agree that Article 13.3 of the Agreement referred to in paragraph 1 which extends the protection to investments made before the date of termination shall expire and shall cease to be effective after the entry into force of the Agreement. Thus, it is adequately ensured that the bilateral investment protection agreement is not capable of producing additional legal effects after its termination. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the international bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-192	Thank you too, Congressman. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi is the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2021-02-16-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The secretary of state explained in detail the content of the bill. The Jobbik Group supports all international conventions and international agreements that serve the interests of the country. We, of course, support the adoption of the proposal on the basis of what has been presented. Thank you.
u2021-02-16-194	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP.
u2021-02-16-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As the Secretary of State stressed, in order to comply with EU law, Member States have undertaken to abolish all their bilateral investment protection agreements in a multilateral or, if so, more effective bilateral way. According to the bill, the agreement will result in the termination of the agreement between the two countries on the protection of investments, thereby ensuring consistency with the law of the European Union in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of the Slovak Republic v Achmea, published on 6 March 2018, and KDNP therefore supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-196	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2021-02-16-197	We support the bill. Thank you.
u2021-02-16-198	They'll get used to it by the end of the cycle. [[Defiance.]] We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the secretary of state if she wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says no. Very good. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the announcement of an agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments until closure. The government referral is T/14943. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I now give the floor once again to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Pacsay-Tomassich Orsolya. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you adds a new element to the legislative framework for the development of economic relations between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo. The aim of the agreement to be announced is to promote economic relations in and within bilateral Hungarian-Kosovo and to make the investment environment safer and more favourable. The agreement concerns investments made by investors from both countries in each other's territory. The agreement therefore serves the protection and legal certainty of Hungarian investors established in the Republic of Kosovo on a reciprocal basis, which is of particular importance in the Western Balkans region with a number of market opportunities. The external economic strategic objective of Hungary's Government is to encourage foreign investments by Hungarian companies and to balance the profits generated there with the profits exported by foreign investors. The implementation of this strategy is based, inter alia, on the establishment of bilateral investment protection agreements, such as the agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo. Since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009, foreign direct investment has been part of the common policy within the European Union. This means that the Member States of the European Union may conclude an investment protection agreement with other countries if, in addition to the necessary national authorisation, the European Commission has issued an approval authorisation. In the case of the agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo, this was done and was therefore signed on 29 October 2020. The Treaty was therefore concluded on the basis of the guidelines of the European Union and with its approval. Dear House, One of the main provisions and purposes of the agreement is the provision of legal guarantees to investors in both countries to protect their investments. Several domestic companies in the territory of the Republic of Kosovo are currently informed about future investment. In particular, it is important for investors to ensure fair and impartial settlement of any disputes that may arise against the State. Thanks to this agreement, Hungarian investors and their investments can expect international legal protection when resolving any disputes. The agreement complies with the content requirements set by international standards. The agreement contains a number of guarantee elements for companies investing abroad, including the principle of non-discrimination and the principle of maximum benefit and national treatment. Investment protection agreements, including this agreement, provide a way to resolve disputes between the investor and the State. This provision constitutes the main guarantee for investors and therefore forms part of any investment protection agreement. That provision also provides protection in cases where the provisions of the investment protection agreement cannot be implemented directly in a given country before the partner's domestic courts. Dear Parliament, We expect the conclusion of the agreement to help develop economic and investment relations between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo by protecting investors. I would ask the honourable Members to accept the bill. Thank you so much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-200	Thank you very much. Keynote speeches: Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, Member Fidesz. Here. [[21.50]]
u2021-02-16-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In 1999, the European Union launched the Stabilisation and Association Process as a framework for relations between the Union and the countries of the Western Balkans region and the broader initiative involving several relevant international players, the Stability Pact. Like the countries of the region, Kosovo is a candidate country with which our country is seeking close cooperation. A number of bilateral agreements have been reached mainly on economic, agricultural, educational and scientific and legal issues. We Hungarians consider the integration of the Western Balkans in Europe to be a national strategic interest. If the region is characterized by peace, tranquility and development, it is good for us, because we can sense everything that is going on in the region's neighbourhood immediately. We are not only talking about support and the importance of cooperation, but we are also acting in the spirit of a responsible neighbourhood policy, even beyond our size and obligation, because it is in our common interest to create peace and stability. The NATO-led KFOR mission serves in Kosovo, in which the third largest contributing nation is Hungary with hundreds of soldiers serving. We are proud to be Hungarian commander of the largest mission in the region as of November 2021. During the corona virus epidemic, we helped Kosovo with 50,000 masks and 5,000 protective suits. The pandemic is also an economic challenge, which is why we support our partner with a dedicated aid loan programme worth EUR 62 million, with Hungarian companies building two water purification works in Kosovo and investing in the development of road infrastructure. With this proposal, the legal basis for successful investments by Hungarian companies in the modernisation of the Kosmet economy would be established. Our priority is also to use Hungarian cooling technology in Kosmet. The Western Balkans is one of the regions exposed to climate change, which can be seen in strong summer heat waves and unpredictable precipitation. Our country has state-of-the-art green technology, and in the countries of the region there would be a significant need for properly prepared and eligible projects that can offset the negative effects. If Hungarian companies can make use of these market gaps in Kosovo, it would not only result in market access for domestic businesses, it would also provide opportunities for market entry in other countries in the region and for remaining on the market, as well as for migration. This is not only in the mutual interest of our country and our partner, but also in the European Union's commitment to green technologies. Ladies and gentlemen, Kosovo is a very young country in demographics, with a skilled workforce, strong import dependency and simple rules for setting up companies. In addition to the Kosovo Act on Foreign Investment in 2014, this bill promotes investment and provides legal guarantees to investors and requires the process of resolving disputes. This gives many companies the opportunity to try their luck in different industries in the new market and to make good news of the high quality Hungarian workforce, products and services. The Fidesz Group supports the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-202	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, Jobbik!
u2021-02-16-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Investment is important, we have always said that, and we support all agreements and international agreements that help Hungarian companies to settle and help the economy even abroad, especially in developing regions, and, of course, give Hungary a positive and forward-looking vision. Therefore, of course, the Jobbik Group will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-204	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP!
u2021-02-16-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The agreement constitutes an international contract under the law on the procedure for international contracts, and the investment protection agreement between the two countries creates a legal framework for investment in each other's territory. One of the main functions of the agreement is to provide investors in both countries with legal guarantees to protect their investments. This is very important and it should be pointed out that it also provides investors with the opportunity to settle fair disputes that may arise. KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-206	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2021-02-16-207	Madam Secretary, we support this fantastic proposal ourselves. Thank you.
u2021-02-16-208	I'm not even judging what's happening here between the ruling party and the opposition. [[Defiance.]] However, we have come to the end of the keynote speeches. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. Madam Secretary, would you like to respond to what has been said in this debate?
u2021-02-16-209	No, thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-210	Very good answer, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the announcement of an agreement on the amendment of the Intergovernmental Agreement on the Single Resolution System until its closure follows. The government referral is T/14941. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Gábor Gion. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-02-16-211	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, In response to the 2008 financial crisis, the European Union has strengthened the stability of the financial sector by strengthening banking supervision and adopting resolution rules, while a banking union has been set up as a further step for the stability of the euro area, with the participation of euro area Member States in the Single Supervisory System and the Single Resolution System. In addition to the single resolution authority, the European Union has also decided to set up the Single Resolution Fund, and the 26 Member States of the European Union, including Hungary, have signed an intergovernmental agreement on the uploading and functioning of the Single Resolution Fund in May 2014. On this basis, over an eight-year transitional period, the euro area national funds will gradually increase their contribution to the Single Resolution Fund, which will become a fully-fledged instrument at Community level at the end of the period in 2022. The non-euro area Member States were involved in negotiating and signing the euro area binding agreement, taking into account the entire European financial market and possible future membership. Hungary has therefore signed the agreement so that even as an outsider it has all the information and that it can represent its interests in relation to future membership conditions. Dear Parliament, In terms of financial stability in the Union and confidence in the banking system, it is important that a common bank EU safety net is ultimately available when the Single Resolution Fund is removed. This is what the amendment to the agreement will create, which will allow the European Stability Mechanism to allow euro area Member States to jointly lend to the Fund in the future. The 2014 agreement created the legal conditions for financing the orderly settlement or liquidation of banks from banks in individual bank EU Member States at European level, either at their own level or at banks in another country. The current amendment to the agreement will address the situation if the Fund's resources are not sufficient in a banking crisis, thereby further strengthening confidence in the European banking system. This is also of particular importance in the current epidemiological situation. Dear House, I would like to reiterate and stress that the agreement, which has been signed by the government, does not impose any obligation on Hungary, since we are not members of the euro area or the banking union, and the national authority will continue to act in Hungary on the basis of Hungarian legislation. At the same time, our accession to the agreement will continue to allow us to monitor the actions of the banking Union. It is also essential to create an adequate and equal level playing field in order to further protect Hungarian interests. The creation of a safety net will increase the stability and security of the European banking system as a whole and of certain institutions. Given that several significant subsidiary banks in Hungary are important, sometimes systemic, players in the domestic banking system, whose parent institution is located in the euro area, the safety net indirectly contributes to the stability of the Hungarian banking system as a whole. The full uploading of the Single Resolution Fund for the Banking Union is therefore expected next year and the associated safety net can start operating as of 1 January 2022 if ratification is in line with the planned timetable. Dear Parliament, Based on what you've said, I ask you to accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[22.00]]
u2021-02-16-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There are speeches to be made by the Chief Speech. Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz!
u2021-02-16-213	Mr President, Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Single Resolution System aims to ensure a uniform approach to failing financial institutions, thereby enhancing the stability of institutions in participating Member States. It also aims to prevent crises from spreading to non-participating Member States, thus facilitating the functioning of the internal market as a whole. If a bank is found today to be in a state of bankruptcy or likely to be in such a situation in the near future, then in the first round, the SRM is entitled to seek a solution. This body was set up by a Regulation of 15 June 2014 on the Single Resolution System. In this context, the Single Resolution Fund was set up by an Intergovernmental Agreement of May 2014 to cover future costs. The Fund shall be filled by the financial institutions of the Member States participating in the Banking Union. At the same time, the legislator had to think that if the fund was completely empty, Member States would be able to intervene by appropriate means. Accordingly, the 2014 IGA on the Single Resolution System was amended by creating a common safety net. The role of the safety net will be played by the European Stability Mechanism established in 2012 under the Intergovernmental Agreement between the euro area countries, which was originally planned to be introduced by the beginning of 2024. In the meantime, however, several Member States and the European Commission have also initiated the introduction of a common safety net. At the meeting of the Eurogroup on 30 November 2020, Member States agreed to reform the European Stability Mechanism. Accordingly, from the beginning of 2022, i.e. two years before the original deadline, a common safety net may be introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, The non-euro area Member States that joined the Banking Union will be able to join the safety net with parallel credit lines. The international treaty before us therefore regulates in detail the amendments to the European Stability Mechanism. We must recognise that events that have a negative impact on the world economy from time to time can occur. Think of the crisis in the world economy that started in 2008 lasting for several years or the outbreak of the Crown Virus last year. In such cases, rapid decisions are needed at both EU and national level. In order to protect Hungarian interests, the Fidesz Group supports the publication of the agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-02-16-214	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, Jobbik!
u2021-02-16-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Single Resolution System Regulation established a Single Resolution Board to prepare and implement the resolution and operationalisation of credit institutions in the Member States participating in the Banking Union. We are basically in favour of modern ways of crisis management, as we are in favour of ensuring that one country's financial crisis does not spread to another country. We also support the combination of the amounts of the security fund with financial institutions. On the other hand, we cannot allow taxpayers to stand up to the possible elimination of the fund. The Group will adopt its position later on on the draft law on the publication of the agreement. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-02-16-216	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2021-02-16-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The European Union's objectives have long included the establishment of a banking union as tight and effective as possible, especially in the Member States of the euro area. The financial and economic crisis in 2008 has caused very serious damage to many eurozone Member States, some of which, during the economic cycle of the decade since then, have not been able to overcome tortured unemployment, family indebtedness and at least 100 percent of public debt in proportion to GDP. The crisis that started in 2008 has shown that supervision of the financial sector is fragmented at EU level and needs to be integrated. This has been achieved by means of the Banking Union for Member States within the euro area. The Banking Union was originally designed to consist of three pillars: single European supervision, a single European resolution mechanism and a single European deposit protection system. It is only the first of these three pillars, the single European supervision, which has been successfully and fully operational since 2013, while negotiations have been held on the European Deposit Protection Scheme since 2015 and no substantive progress has been made. In 2014, States Parties established the Single Resolution Fund under an intergovernmental agreement, which will be replenished by the financial institutions of the Member States participating in the Banking Union. In May 2014, Hungary also signed an agreement on the transfer and joint use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. The bill before us makes up for the lack of an agreement in 2014 by clearly stating that the role of the safety net of the Single Resolution Fund will be played by the European Stability Mechanism. At the same time, this common safety net will only fulfil the ultimate rescue, so-called last resort function, and therefore the bill before us will clarify the possibilities and conditions for the inclusion of safety nets. Our assessment shows that the European Stability Mechanism, set up in 2012 for the crisis in the euro area, as a common safety net, is important and forward-looking, as we can remember that Greece has been saved from complete and total collapse with enormous European and international efforts and rescue packages. However, financial stability and the reduction of the country's international exposure are the most important aspects for us. The Left tried to finance the gigantic debt they created by taking on a huge amount of IMF loans of thousands of billions, perhaps with the worst conditions in the world. This loan was then repaid by the national government in 2013, well before the deadline. The composition of the outstanding debt has also become much more favourable over recent years, as it has been able to significantly increase the share of the population's sovereign debt and reduce foreign currency debt and foreign debt. In line with this, the foreign exchange ratio fell from 53 per cent at the end of 2011 to 21 per cent, while the foreigner ratio fell from 65 per cent to 34 per cent. This has contributed to a reduction in the country's foreign currency exposure and external vulnerability. It is particularly beneficial that, now that the sovereign debt has increased again as a result of the Crown Virus pandemic, Hungary is in a much more favourable position than it was in 2010, because debt is no longer present in the IMF's breathing machines, in the hands of foreigners or in the form of foreign currency debt, but in a much safer way in domestic hands. The external vulnerability of the Hungarian economy has been further reduced thanks to the government's measure that led out foreign currency loans that forced families into debt slavery. While foreign banks were more or less present in Hungary in 2010, in recent years around 60 percent of the banking system has been Hungarian-owned. Only Austria was able to achieve this performance in our region outside Hungary, while the banking sector of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania is dominated to the greatest extent by foreign banks, in which only 15-25 percent of the banking system is domestic-owned. Thus, decisions in these countries in the financial sector are taken not within the national economy, but in foreign banking centres. The most important thing for us is to strengthen the stability and resilience of the Hungarian economic and financial system and to reduce its exposure at the same time. This is why Fidesz-KDNP has been working since 2010, and the result of this responsible economic policy is that Hungary is able to endure even the economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic to a satisfactory and good extent. The KDNP fraction supports the bill before us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-218	Thank you. Congressman Gyula Molnár, head speaker of the MSZP, is coming. Here.
u2021-02-16-219	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. It was a real intellectual achievement that we managed to smuggle an actual policy into this, too. I am not going to do this, because I just want to say that I have had excellent thoughts, that this proposal is very good, and that we should pray that this should never be necessary, and that there should not be the moment that Jobbik's representative mentioned that people should be able to endure. Nevertheless, we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-220	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Would anyone else like to speak, honourable Members? [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. Secretary of State, you wish to reflect. [[On Gábor Gion's mark:]] Here you go.
u2021-02-16-221	Mr. President, thank you very much. Just a very brief clarification on the point made by a Member. The safety net is a loan, so Member States provide loans to the Single Resolution Board, which should be repaid from subsequent bank payments. [[22.10]] So it doesn't mean a subsidy, it's not really about non-taxable money, that's all I'd like to say. And I thank the factions for their support. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-16-222	And thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the announcement of the multilateral convention on the implementation of tax convention measures to prevent tax erosion and profit shifting until closure is held. The government referral is T/14938. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Izer Norbert. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-02-16-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 7 June 2017, Hungary signed a multilateral agreement to amend the existing bilateral tax convention of each State, as a result of the OECD's programme to reduce tax base avoidance and transfer of profits. Authorisation to sign shall be granted in accordance with Article 1299/2017. It was included in the 2004 Government Decision. The multilateral tax convention as a framework agreement to combat tax evasion ensures the simple and automated transfer of OECD recommendations to existing tax conventions between States. This will reduce tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning at international level. In the context of the Framework Convention, each State shall indicate in its notification which bilateral conventions it intends to amend by means of the Framework Convention and which provision of the Framework Convention it intends to apply. The Framework Convention only provides for amendments to bilateral tax conventions for which both Contracting Parties to the bilateral Convention have mutually designated each other. Certain provisions may be excluded or optional in the framework of the Framework Convention, as usual in international treaties, meaning that only the article of the bilateral convention concerned that both parties intend to amend is amended. The final notification approved in the course of legal confirmation shall be transmitted to the OECD as depositary to all States after ratification. The Hungarian notification contained in the bill indicated 74 conventions. Hungary has chosen the mandatory rules, the so-called minimum standards, and the inclusion of arbitration provisions in the bilateral tax convention, among the provisions of the Framework Convention. Tax arbitration may serve the interests of Hungary in international dispute, because without arbitration, individual countries cannot be forced to give up their taxation position in a double taxation situation, regardless of whether it complies with the provisions of the relevant Convention. The Framework Convention was signed by 95 States by February 2021 and ratified by 61 States, of which 20 EU Member States. The ratification of the Convention by law proves Hungary's commitment to the fight against international tax evasion. With the adoption of the bill, Hungary's relevant tax conventions will be amended as soon as possible from 2022. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Based on what has been said, I ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-16-224	Thank you very much. Mainnote speakers will be held. The lead speaker of Fidesz is Congressman Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, set the objective of reducing tax base erosion and profit shifting in 2013. In the coming years, it has made a number of recommendations to this effect and has developed a new legal procedure that will allow for the amendment of bilateral tax conventions by a multilateral convention, thus avoiding any individual amendment of bilateral interstate agreements. Hungary joined this multilateral tax convention in the summer of 2017. The rules of the Convention are typically aimed at preventing abuse and increasing the effectiveness of dispute resolution. With the innovative legal procedure of the Convention, States Parties may indicate which other States Parties wish to amend their existing Conventions, and only for bilateral agreements where both Contracting Parties mutually designate each other. Similarly, it is possible for the Parties to designate only one section of their bilateral agreements to be amended. The number of States that are parties to the Convention and Hungary has bilateral tax agreements with them is 74 total. In all these 74 bilateral conventions, we intend to introduce the mandatory elements of the multilateral tax convention, i.e. its minimum standards and the international tax arbitration system. How many agreements the amendment will actually take place depends on the intention of the other party. The legal possibility of tax dispute resolution by arbitration already exists for EU Member States, which now extends to 7 non-EU States, but in such a way that arbitration can only be conducted if the national court has not yet taken a decision on the merits of the case. Hungary also applies further restrictions on the applicability of arbitration procedures, which are detailed in the notification to the Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, The provisions of the Tax Convention, once they have entered into force, will make tax evasion, tax evasion and tax evasion more difficult and must therefore be supported. Fidesz supports the announcement of the treaty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-02-16-226	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, Jobbik.
u2021-02-16-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, International conventions on the avoidance of double taxation are very good inventions of the whole system, so that everyone can find their place, and these multilateral conventions are precisely capable of avoiding double taxation. If we have to ratify these, it is in our interest too, and therefore the Jobbik Group will, of course, support the ratification of this convention. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-228	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP.
u2021-02-16-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which brings together countries with an advanced economy, the OECD, has established the multilateral tax convention with a view to combating international tax fraud and tax evasion as a result of its programme to reduce tax evasion and transfer of profits. On behalf of Hungary, the multilateral tax convention was signed on 7 June 2017, signed by 95 States by February 2021 and ratified by 61 States, of which 20 EU Member States. The aim of the bill before us is to ensure that Hungary fulfils its international obligations under the signing of the multilateral tax convention in 2017, while at the same time proving its commitment to the fight against international tax evasion. The Fidesz-KDNP government has taken effective and effective steps since 2010 to reduce tax avoidance and whiteen the economy. The fight against the grey economy and tax evasion required a change of perspective, against the logic of left-wing governments, who quasi-legalised the crime of living, because they constantly raised taxes and applied a complicated, constantly changing, bureaucratic and unpredictable tax system, as well as insufferable taxes on businesses and Hungarian families. With the change of attitude of the Fidesz-KDNP government, economic whitening became more widespread, which meant fairer, fairer competition in the market and more tax revenues to the State, from which further tax reductions could be made. Successful economic whitening measures include online cash registers, online invoicing, the immediate payment system and the introduction of an online control system for road freight transport. It is also an important element to ensure that the electronic payment facility is available from 1 January this year. Administrative burdens and reduction of bureaucracy have also played an important role in economic whitening. In 2020, the tax authority already prepared 5 million sija declarations, which in most cases only had to be accepted by taxpayers. Another main component of economic whitening is tax cuts in recent years and a tax system that encourages stable, predictable performance and work. The tax measures taken since 2010 have reduced the tax burden in Hungary by 4-5 percent of GDP. While in 2016, the rate of the social contribution tax was 27 per cent, only 15.5 per cent after the reduction last summer. The small company tax was 16 percent in 2016, after this year's new reduction, only 11 percent. The efficiency of the Hungarian tax system and the results of the Hungarian economic whitening measures were recognised by the European Commission. [[22.20]] The tax avoidance indicator, the so-called VAT gap indicator, was still 21 percent below left-wing governments, which fell to 6.6 percent by 2019. With this performance, Hungary has been able to achieve the greatest improvement in the shortest time, and today Hungary has not only preceded its regional competitors, but it is also at the forefront of Europe, and it is also ahead of countries with tax awareness such as Denmark, Finland and Austria. We do not say this, but the European Commission's data and analyses prove it. The multilateral tax convention to be adopted with the bill before us will also enable effective and effective action against tax fraud and tax evasion in the international dimension. This is entirely the same as Hungary's anti-tax avoidance and economic whitening efforts, and the KDNP fraction can therefore support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP!
u2021-02-16-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, What we do in the world is that there is a good and happy world when law enforcement is always one step ahead of criminals, and there is a bad world when it's the other way around; we see it very often, especially in the world of money. I just wanted to say, in this context, that I am afraid that those who, by the way, deal with this issue in a well-functioning way, may be getting ahead of themselves, so we have to do our best. I think that we can agree very much with the objective set out in this agreement, so we will also support the proposal for our part. Thank you.
u2021-02-16-232	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Mr. Secretary, do you wish to reflect? [[On the mark of Norbert Izer:]] Secretary of State says no. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to the Convention on the Unification of Certain Legislation for International Aviation in Montreal for 2019 of 28 May 1999 by the Member State Notification No LE 3/38.1-19.50 issued by the International Civil Aviation Organisation and by the International Civil Aviation Organisation on the 2019 amendment of the Convention on the Unification of Certain Legislation for International Aviation in Montreal on 28 May 1999 by the Member State Notification No LE 3/38.1 to 19/70 issued by the International Civil Aviation Organisation on 11 October 2019 a general debate until closure. Now! [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much, but I'm used to Iliad and Odyssey. Thank you. The government referral is T/14939. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, If Mr President had waived the title of the law, I would have missed it, and thank you for doing so.
u2021-02-16-234	I would have seriously reprimanded the Secretary of State if you'd read it again.
u2021-02-16-235	I was worried, Mr. President, so I didn't take the liberty. Dear Parliament, The Convention on the Unification of Certain Legislation on International Air Transport in Montreal regulates compensation for the death or injury of passengers, the liability of the air carrier to passengers, including delays, baggage and cargo, and the amounts of compensation. Among other things, it is possible to revise the limits if the so-called inflation factor exceeds 10 per cent. The Contracting States shall decide on the new limits by tacit approval procedure. This means that if the majority of the Contracting States disagree within three months of notification, the revision shall not enter into force and the matter shall be referred to the meeting of the Contracting States. Dear Parliament, The International Civil Aviation Organisation has indicated in its October 2019 national notification that, since there is no majority disagreement, compensation amounts in international air transport are approximately 14 percent higher than in previous levels. Dear Parliament, The changes to the Convention may affect a wide range of passengers as the new amounts of compensation under the amendment are valid in the event of baggage damage in international air transport and, in order to ensure consistency with international law, the amendment should be incorporated into domestic law as soon as possible. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept and announce the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-236	Thank you very much. The keynote speeches are coming. Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz!
u2021-02-16-237	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The following bill, put to the vote, settles the issue of compensation for our lost luggage in a satisfactory manner for Hungarian citizens. Although this does not seem to be a very topical issue, let us hope that someday we will be able to get through the Crown Virus crisis, we will be able to travel freely again, and then the moment will come when we realise the importance of the bill before us. The original Montreal Convention of 1999, to which we have joined, is about standardising international air traffic, to be more precise, this Convention standardises the amount of compensation to be paid for lost luggage. This convention has had to be changed for several reasons since 1999. One reason is that several Member States have in the meantime shifted from their national currency to the euro and another is inflation, followed by the amount of compensation. Therefore, the amounts have been revised and the maximum amounts to be paid have been calculated using a single international system. We have accepted the updated amounts, the treaty has entered into force in international law, the amendments to the original treaty have been brought into line with the Hungarian legal order, and now we have received a notification from the Member States. That is why I ask my fellow Members to create another condition for calm travel in the interests of the security of our citizens, and to support the presentation by our vote and by their vote. Let's hope that the virus disappears and will actually allow you to travel. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-238	Thank you very much. The president does not have the opportunity to classify any speech, but the assessment of this would certainly sound like I wish I could lose my luggage somewhere in the world, if I understand correctly. [[Defiance.]] By the way, it's a complete consensual desire. The lead speaker of Jobbik will tell you what he thinks. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, please.
u2021-02-16-239	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I fully agree with Mr President's suggestion that we should travel all over the world. This agreement and its adoption are, of course, also in the interests of the Jobbik Group, and also of the interests of Hungarian citizens, so I assure the Secretary of State that we will support this proposal.
u2021-02-16-240	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2021-02-16-241	Thank you. And there should be no one who, in his knowledge and confidence in his strength, wishes to fight the Trojans on his own; and I can bring Iliad along, and this sentence, listening to me, also means trusting professionals to do what the experts have decided, so the KDNP fraction will support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-242	Great. Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP!
u2021-02-16-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After such wise thoughts, what can I do? I will join the speakers in front of me and we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-244	Thank you. And we'll ask the Secretary of State to ask the factions once this mad pandemic is over, let everyone report to me about the. How did I lose my luggage in the world? With a story entitled., similarly on a consensus basis. Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I find that no, no further comments have been made. Mr. Secretary, do you wish to reflect? [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] Secretary of State says no. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday, and I will inform you. [[22.30]] Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for national data assets until closure. The government referral is T/14949. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tamás Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The data is the new oil; data should be considered as fuel in the digital economy; artificial intelligence should be fed with data. Surely you and everyone who is following up on this debate have met these statements, whether it is the economy, social processes or the functioning of the state, the data, the availability of data, the processing and the analysis of data are increasingly important. In today's world, digitalization, technology giants dictate trends, in most cases states can only follow changes. This could damage national sovereignty because the interests of the nation and the individual are in most cases contrary to the interests of those companies. These companies have created a new industry through data processing, data analysis, and have an unimaginable economic power. Their social influence has also taken such a measure that several countries in the world, including Hungary, are thinking about special regulations for them. Dear Parliament, So the data has been valued today, if you will, treasure, property. It is increasingly apparent that in the future, only those who have the ability to analyse and process data related to their operation and activity can succeed. The state can and cannot be excluded from this, which has a great deal of data in its management. Thanks to the processes described above, these data are of increasing value, thus being virtually part of national wealth. Hungary should be able to effectively manage this data mass, the national data wealth. It should also be able to process this wealth with adequate guarantees, of course, also for businesses. This is also a value to be protected, so Hungary must be able to manage national data assets in a sovereign way, free from the influence and dominant position of multinational companies. Dear Parliament, Last autumn, under the auspices of the Artificial Intelligence Coalition, which brings together Hungarian businesses, research institutes and think tanks, we adopted Hungary's strategy of artificial intelligence on a consensusary professional proposal from the Hungarian digital industry. One of the foundations of the strategy is that in order for Hungary to be the winner of the social and economic transformation of artificial intelligence, we will have to start the Hungarian data economy in the coming years. In addition to the above, the Artificial Intelligence Coalition, which prepared the strategy, was a strong proposal to support the development of data assets and the utilisation of national data assets by an appropriate institutional system. The establishment of this institutional system has become one of the top priorities of the government by adopting an artificial intelligence strategy. In accordance with the proposal of the Artificial Intelligence Coalition, we also provide for the establishment of a system of institutions responsible for data assets, we have established the National Data Property Agency. This agency will be responsible in future for Hungary's ability to exploit national data assets in a sovereign way. However, the legal conditions for this need to be clearly and clearly addressed, clarifying the tasks, responsibilities and guarantees necessary for the protection of data assets of all stakeholders. Dear Parliament, The bill before you serves this purpose. It lays down the most important rules for the management of national data assets and also defines the tasks of the National Data Property Agency. Before I give you a detailed description of the content of this bill, allow me to draw your attention to a number of things. First of all, I would like to point out that this law does not change the way in which data in the public interest is made available. Freedom of information and transparency of the functioning of the State are fundamental rights. Data on this will continue to be available free of charge to anyone under the usual rules. Furthermore, there is no change in the order of the public authentic reporting of public or municipal bodies. Therefore, those who act on official matters should, in the same way as in the past, request the authentic data and certificates from the organisation associated with their case. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to make the data assets managed by the state more widely and thoroughly useful than at present, and to be digitally processed and analysed according to the expectations of the modern age. Using national data resources, the operation of the state will be more efficient, and Hungarian businesses will be more successful and more competitive. The priority protection of personal data is an important guarantee rule in the proposal. Where public records that contain personal data are necessary for data reporting and data analysis, an independent service provider, the key service provider, shall ensure that the data are protected by appropriate encryption technology. This will ensure that personal data cannot be decoded from the data analysis, that no one can know them outside the original handling organisations. This applies, of course, to the National Data Property Agency, so you cannot know or process personal data when preparing the analyses. Dear Parliament, Under the proposal, the Government supervises the work of the National Data Property Agency through the National Data Property Council. The rules for cooperation between the Agency and the Council will be detailed in implementing regulations. Dear Parliament, The bill takes a significant step towards Hungary's future development and success, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-246	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will be speeches by the lead speaker. Congressman Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of Fidesz is the first. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Digitalisation has an enormous impact on all aspects of our lives. Whether it is the economy, social processes or the functioning of the state, the availability, processing and analysis of data are increasingly important. It is increasingly apparent that in the future, only those who have the ability to analyse and process data relating to their operations and activities can succeed; as Mr State Secretary said, the state cannot be excluded from this. It must be able to effectively manage the mass of data managed by the State. Ladies and gentlemen, The need for the bill is created by the strategy of artificial intelligence adopted by the government in Hungary. The strategy was essentially created by a market initiative, and the Artificial Intelligence Coalition, which contains nearly 300 market, scientific and research organisations, prepared the technical proposal on which it is based. One of the key elements of Hungary's artificial intelligence strategy is the need to launch the country's data economy, which requires more efficient use of data generated during the operation of the state. This requires the establishment of an institutional system capable of facilitating the widespread exploitation of national data assets and providing data reporting based on the analysis of public data. Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of the bill, the legislative framework for national data governance and management will be successfully established. The proposal appoints the National Data Property Agency to carry out the tasks related to the exploitation of public data assets, which is primarily responsible for exploiting the possibilities that open up to us through the interconnection and analysis of available data. [[22.40]] With the legal support of the operation of the NAVÜ, the following will be implemented within the framework of this bill: promoting the implementation of the Public Data Recycling Act; the operation of the national public data portal; the establishment and maintenance of the national public data register; the establishment and continuous maintenance of public data records; the processing and analysis of anonymised databases with the assistance of the key service provider designated by the government and the bodies responsible for the management of databases; the provision of data analysis services to government, market and citizens. The NAVÜ's activities serve four important objectives: to provide citizens with access to the data, information and quality services they receive; to provide adequate data-based support for top-level administrative decision-makers in decision-making. It guarantees that Hungary will apply and develop the most modern technology in the field of data asset recovery and digitalisation. The NAVÜ establishes the public and market value of the data, contributes to the expansion of the economy and the development of additional value-added public and residential services on the basis of access to data in a collaborative or business model. The operation of the NAVÜ guarantees the retention of the right of self-determination over national data assets, which is one of the most important sovereignty issues, a cornerstone. It should be pointed out that the bill focuses on the professional processing and processing of large databases, without prejudice to the rules on access to data of general interest. This will therefore continue to be done in accordance with the current procedure. Dear House, In order to launch Hungary's data economy and to achieve successful data governance and management, it is essential to establish and adopt the necessary legislative framework. With the adoption of this bill, the 21st Amendment can be successfully implemented. A national legislative environment that responds effectively to the digitalisation challenges of the 20th century. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed legislation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-02-16-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman János Stummer, Jobbik, please.
u2021-02-16-249	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the information society of our time, the possession of data is as important as ever in human history. Using data, we can learn about the future, use data to get above our competitors, and we can make the most important decisions on the basis of data knowledge at both individual and nation state level. It's cliché, but it's true, and it also has to be said in the debate of a bill on such a subject that data is power. It's a common good, Prime Minister, just so they can understand it on the other side of the horseshoe. We need to be able to take advantage of this power and its potential, to be able to live well both for individuals and for countries. If the country is not able to make good stewardship with the data it has extracted, produced, provided by its specialists, it will inevitably be at a competitive disadvantage compared to others that it will not be able to bring in in any other way. How Hungary will manage in the coming years and decades will be decided on the basis of such and similar proposals. To succeed, it is not yet going to come out on the basis of the present proposal, since the proposal does not take a position on important issues in terms of detail. However, in this general debate, or for this reason, I think it is important to lay down certain principles which should define our position on this subject. I believe that these principles should be the following. The issue of data assets is a matter of national sovereignty. The data produced by the citizens of the nation, which can be used and used for the public, is for the nation, and for the third party it can only be done with due care and caution, after careful consideration, for business reasons or for any other consideration. Responsible management of data assets is a key element of the country's future competitiveness. The data can only be adapted to the competitiveness of the economy with sufficient efficiency if they are expected to be used with the most modern tools and structures. Three: the transparency of the processes of data management is not only in the interests of the nation, but also its right. It is of interest, because data wealth is always a great value, so many and for many reasons can acquire certain parts of it for self-interest; and its right is one of the most important pledges of the sovereignty of the nation. Therefore, I think it is clear to everyone that the Data Property Agency is much more than just another sandbox for young people with NER, and it is about much more than the implementation of an administrative magic trick, which, by the way, I have no doubt personally about the bureaucratic capabilities of András Levente Gál. This concept looks at data as a marketable asset, and it is doing so very well. We ask that the present holders of the executive power also consider it a common treasure, one of the most important pledges of our common future, and not, exceptionally, an animal to be pissed off. Here, unfortunately, in this place, I must note that the current proposal does not reflect the transparency that I expect, and it is not clear what the intentions of the current government are ultimately and in detail. Based on this knowledge, you expect an annual turnover of HUF 10 billion, while there are no detailed rules in the law regarding the criteria for determining the remuneration of the market demand, nor the additional costs incurred by the public body and the cooperating body in relation to the provision of the data. This, knowing the mechanisms of your corruption machine, does not promise much good. One of my biggest concerns, partly related to the foregoing, is that three political players in the National Data Property Council ultimately decide on the conditions and conditions for meeting market needs. In the current list, besides Sándor Pintér and László Palkovics, there is also a husband of the nation, Antal Rogán, about whom much can be said, but that he would flee screaming at his feet from sometimes falling public assets, not particularly. The logic of the operation, based on your vision, looks something like this: the need for information services is sent to the National Data Brain Agency by the claimant. The National Data Property Agency shall examine the claim. Where necessary for the fulfilment of the request, the National Data Property Agency shall contact the cooperating body in order to provide anonymised data for data analysis. The National Data Property Agency shall act on the basis of a decision of the National Data Property Council when fulfilling or rejecting the request, taking into account the criteria and principles laid down by the National Data Property Council, when fulfilling and rejecting a market demand. On the basis of the Council's decision, in which Palkovics is not famous for his protests against expropriation, Pintér is not known for his struggle for transparency, and Minister Rogán is not famous for the management of responsible public assets. The point is, my dear Secretary of State, everything else is just an administrative magic trick between the walls of a Parliament that has been reduced to a law factory. I'm not asking you to force yourselves now, because after ten years of steering, I think it's gonna be pudding peas anyway. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-250	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here.
u2021-02-16-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This bill is not about what Congressman Stummer has said here and what he has accused here of making political opinions. But he expressed his political opinion on a number of things; he is currently criticising subsidies to cross-border people as a representative of a party calling themselves a national party. But we are here in the evening because of the bill on national data assets, and the increasing expansion of digitalisation and modern information technologies, in addition to economic and social phenomena, has had a serious impact on public data management and public data management. Information, data, has become a leading asset today. To have data, to use data is now as valuable as trading raw materials. We pay with our data in exchange for a number of services, mainly on the Internet, during the weekdays as well. We often do not realize this transaction, we believe that data provision is free, but we do contribute to the trading of our data, information about us, by these providers, which they are actually doing much better. Who wouldn't have met the everyday situation of having to click 27 pop-up windows on a website to get all the input from our data? In a data-based economy, the state must also adapt to changed circumstances, which require a change of perspective. There is a great deal of valuable data in the management of the State, which is time for the State to use in terms of efficiency and competitiveness, but with sufficient guarantees. It is time to look at public data as part of national assets and to see it as a marketable asset for the economy. The aim of the bill before us is to establish a legislative framework for national data governance and management. [[22.50]] The submission designates the National Data Property Agency, the NAVÜ, to carry out tasks related to the exploitation of public data assets. The NAVÜ is not a public authority, but a service agency whose operating framework and tasks are determined by the bill before us. The Agency's tasks will include the operation of the national public data portal, the establishment and maintenance of the national public data register and the establishment and continuous maintenance of the public data register. I think it is very important that this should not only be created, but that it should be continuously operated, constantly updated and continuously managed and managed. The activities of the NAVÜ contribute to providing adequate data-based support to top-level administrative decision-makers in decision-making. NAVÜ also guarantees that Hungary uses and develops state-of-the-art technology in the field of data asset recovery and digitalisation. The bill also establishes the National Data Property Council. It is the Council's task to define guidelines and principles for the NAVÜ's activities and the government's data recovery policy in general. At the same time, the bill does not affect the regulatory environment for access to data of general interest, and public interest data will continue to be made available independently of this proposal in accordance with the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information. As the Secretary of State has said in his exposé, in this changing world, it is important that the state treats the data properly, as a good host, and that the data wealth should not only be a long, long, wide data table, but also a data asset for competitiveness and good, effective decision-making, so the KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[János Schanda applauds.]]
u2021-02-16-252	Thank you very much. Congressman Gyula Molnár, head speaker of the MSZP, is coming. Here.
u2021-02-16-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'll start from a little further away, with a personal confession: I've seen in my older movie experiences when people in different crime scenes or action movies go into their computers, where they're in a public building, say, the server room, in databases, doing different surfings. At the time, I always thought that it was somewhere, somewhere in a distant future, but obviously I wouldn't understand it, I would never use it, and I always remember with nostalgia the time when you went in and looked for something when you were in college, you looked at things on big scrolls, you had to go through the library for hours after everything. And here we really are, we have come to the time when data wealth and the kind of data wealth that I really think will help a significant part of our lives and make it easier for the world. But I'd like to ask you a question. You'll be poetic, of course, and you'll find out the answer that we trust you from the point of view that if you... [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes.]] I thought you might know the answer to the rhetorical question. So we trust you that you will come up with an anonymous, transparent, clear, controllable system that it will in no way affect people's thinking in the coming years, that it will not have any effect on the world that we believe should not be influenced by methods that are really beyond the sphere that my age has imagined will ever happen. So, in comparison to everything you've actually said here, and frankly, I'm willing to accept it, and I've almost become humid several times when you say that nothing changes, and everything is as good as it is, I accept that in my reading or in our reading, this law is actually about how public databases can be sold, how they can be used, how they can make money, how they can make money from it, and in some way they have incorporated it in a consolidation that is as effective as possible. I ask you the most important dilemma or question, which, in some respects, I will be very interested in answering in the coming days or years or weeks. You obviously know that this is what you are dealing with, and in particular, Minister of State, that the same work is currently being done in the European Union. The same work is being done on how and how it can be regulated in the EU. What is the reason why we are not waiting for the European Union to do this work, in some way we are looking at the directives and looking at what is acceptable from it and what is not. I know, of course, after yesterday, what follows from this is that our kind of political attitude, that we look towards Brussels with an open face, we are trying to put these behind us, but perhaps this kind of political accusation does not come directly to us in the exploitation of national data assets. Moreover, obviously you also know that there is regulation of this in some way at international level, thinking about how it can really be done so that no one can ever, in any way, abuse this thing, either in a technical sense or financially. Therefore, indeed, at this late hour, although Congressman Nacsa was very low-key compared to you, because he was able to attach any actual policy or very minimal actual policy to the national data assets, but I am telling you that I think there are two political and one financial reasons for this law. One of the political reasons, I think, was that they envied in the Brexit and Trump campaign the techniques we used to see in so many movies. So now I think that in the background, a centralised, centralised access to some kind of data wealth will be created in some form. My fellow Member, Mr Jobbikos, made it clear that, if you are not angry, we are not so confident about the Council, in which three ministers are sitting, and he has said this plasticly and clearly, I do not want to plagiarize and think further. So everything you decide on this case is government competence. Why do they think that, or why should we try to show that this is independent of us in any way? No! All that is in this case is what we sell to anonymously, in what form to whom, through whom, through whom, how, it is all in this bill of conduct of the government's competence. From that point of view, back to my original thought, there's not much trust. The second political objective, then, is to say what I just felt first, and we clearly believe that you want to adopt this bill before the European Union's directives to be adopted, because you know precisely that this is one of the shared competences. So, if you accept it first, then, obviously, the application of that directive could be significantly overlooked. Obviously, they believe that there will be something there that will make it difficult, if any, for the purpose that we assume in this context. I think that this bill clearly legalises the possibility of using for commercial purposes the data that people are forced to provide at a certain stage of administration. So he's forced to do this kind of data to make the administration... someone from his personal data is making money, and he might even pay for that service, whether it's for the state or for what it's based on. So, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of all our good intentions, and at the late hour, I understand that all the speakers were much more peaceful, but we, as we know today, would like to say the painful and sad thing that, for our part, we will not support this bill in this form. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-254	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Congressman Gyula Molnár can already make a success of himself in this bill, because he has worked a great deal to speak to Congressman Nacsa when he should no longer have, and for two minutes now I will give Mr Nacsa the opportunity to speak. Here.
u2021-02-16-255	Thank you. That's nothing new, Congressman Molnár can do that at any time. I would just like to point out to him that these figures, which we are talking about, are not new, but are already available, they are only combed together and organised, and if you look at the aspirations of the European Union, honourable Member, which is changing a little bit slowly, but the original position is, in fact, entirely self-absorbed. The European Union has prepared and prepared proposals in this regard that would give anything, without limitation, to anyone free of charge. So this is total openness and complete self-destruction. On the other hand, we think, as an example, because there are few examples of an international state, a good example, but at large tech companies we see data wealth, how data management is done, trying to anticipate the self-destruction that the European Union has represented in its directions. I think it is a good thing that we are not going in the direction of self-destruction on this issue, but that we are looking at Hungary's interests and competitiveness. [[23.00]] You do not have to listen to us on this subject, but ask IT specialists, researchers dealing with artificial intelligence, data management, international renowned or even Hungarian researchers, who will all say the same thing as the Secretary of State and I said about this, that there is a huge competitive disadvantage for state-sized tech companies, so it is important for governments to step on this area, and it is important that they take advantage of its potential. Thus, in 2021, we may already have arrived at the need and may need to do so. Listen to the international experts' research or speeches in this direction, which all point in this direction, and I think it is right that Hungary should be able to lead by example, for example, in this area, so let this be the area right now. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-16-256	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Mr. Secretary, do you wish to reflect on what has been said? [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2021-02-16-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the one hand, I thank you for the fact that despite the late hour, we have been able to actively exchange ideas on this important issue. Allow me, on the one hand, to thank you for the supportive words and the sentences in which you indicated your support for the bill before Parliament, and, on the other hand, to attempt to disperse anyone who still has any doubts, in case I can convince you that this is an important matter, and it is important that we support this bill as widely as possible in order to achieve our common national success. Allow me to begin with Mr Molnar's suggestions, going backwards. Indeed, in part, Congressman Nacsa has already replied that it is indeed about the data we are talking about here and how we can link and analyse existing data. But the law is clear and clear, and that is why it is necessary for the Parliament to address this issue. I must deny here that this is not just a matter of government competence, because the law clearly and clearly states that the linking of personal data cannot take place unless it has been depersonalised. In English, here basically for analysis, scientific research, economic development, even these data can be used in this way, trends and much more can be handled with the help of these data, but there will no longer be an opportunity to get to know anyone's personal data here by virtue of the power of the law. I hope, therefore, that I can dissipate this to the gentleman representing his most important doubts, and perhaps it is also an argument that the NAIH has been constantly consulted during the preparation of the bill, and that, in their view, this regulation is also appropriate, and that it adequately protects our personal data in GDPR-compatible manner. It is a question of sales in the sentences of the Member, and it is a legitimate dilemma. But if we want Hungarian businesses, Hungarian research institutions and Hungarian companies to be competitive and even not to follow trends, but to dictate in certain areas, then this is indeed necessary. We can help Hungarian businesses and Hungarian development if we make the data available to the state available to them. Consider, for example, that there are not many places in the world, not many systems operating in the same way, such as in Hungary, for example, to manage our health data. Indeed, very serious research and very serious improvements can be made if these data can be used by companies, companies and developers, and this can provide a serious competitive advantage for the domestic pharmaceutical industry or for the various actors in the health industry. It would be a shame to give up on this, it would be a shame to give up on our competitive advantage compared to other countries. We are proposing, honourable Member, that we should not be put at a competitive disadvantage, not follow trends, but try to dictate them and give the Hungarian companies more and more opportunities. I would ask the Member to support Hungarian companies, to support Hungarian research and development workers, and to enable these companies to gain competitive advantage over their international competitors. Let me also respond to the dilemma of what is going on with EU legislation. And I would not want to put any more tension between you here with Congressman Stummer than justified, but the fact is that I also share the position of Congressman Stummer, who believes that this is a national interest. I don't want to be a problem with that, Congressman, but the thing is, [[Gyula Molnár intervenes.]] I'd rather agree with you on that. [[To János Stummer:]] Mr. Congressman. It is indeed a matter of national sovereignty, an important issue that is a matter of national sovereignty. So we should settle these questions for ourselves. And, of course, as a Member State of the European Union, as a proud European Union Member State, we are involved in the development of directives, and if there is a common directive and it is also in the national interest, Hungary may also implement it not so far away in the future. However, it is important that we be able to take our own national position on these important issues that will determine the next century, and not out of the interest of the European Union, not out of the interests of the technological giants hiding behind the European Union, but in terms of what we think is right and we try to follow it. So I also encourage the Socialist Party to side with national interests against the EU's regulatory intentions. Perhaps these were the most important points made by the Member; I hope that I have been able to resolve all his doubts. In addition, Mr Stummer raised points. Allow me not to respond to any comments you make that are sufficiently far from the professionalism of the debate at this late hour. We have many opportunities to hold these debates, to hold political debates with each other, and we will do so in the coming weeks and months, I think. However, let me try to tell you one thing: you, among other things, have made serious de-honesting sentences about András Levente Gál, the head of the NAVÜ. I think that Gál András Levente should not have a debate between us about his professionalism, and I would like to protect the Executive Director in this respect. We are talking about a serious, competent specialist, who has considerable merit in preparation as well. Mr President, Congressman, he resented the fact that we are not laying down detailed rules at the statutory level. I must admit that I think we can easily agree that in this industry, in this area, it is very important that, if necessary, the necessary changes can also be made at the level of government regulations, that these regulations can be made more quickly and that the most important principles, the most important guarantees, need to be guaranteed only at the level of law. After all, this is an area that we are actually building and are building up everywhere in the world, so it is not worth creating legislation that would then mean technological progress and preventing technological developments, not supporting them. So I think this clearly proves why guarantees need to be laid down in law. That is what we are now doing in this proposal and the detailed rules at the level of the government regulation. Allow me, honourable Member, to draw your attention to the fact that the role of the Data Property Council is clear and clear. Here you have made all kinds of lousy political accusations about the members of the Data Property Council, which I must absolutely reject, since you have said false sentences. [[23.10]] However, the task and powers of the council are clearly enshrined in the law. It clearly states that it sets out guidelines and principles, that is, this council does not deal with concrete decisions, but sets out directives and principles. This Council consists of ministers who are government ministers involved in data management. There are several of these ministers of the government, so it is necessary for more players to participate from this government side, but it is precisely that they are involved in this, and that they draw up principles and guidelines, and ensure that national sovereignty you seek is displayed, so that Hungarian data management cannot be passed on to the interests of corporate and technological giants. This is what it is all about, that the ministers of the responsible Hungarian government are the Ministers of the Data Property Council, which, by the way, ensures national sovereignty, in which we fully agree that this is an important issue. Allow me to point out that you mentioned a sum of HUF 10 billion, which I do not know the background of, where and why you mentioned that. This is a new organization, a new area, and the years to come will show that otherwise it is right and well managed, in such a way that we support Hungarian companies, Hungarian research and development, so that developments with significant added value can be realised in Hungary, and how much revenue the state can derive from it. Let us hope that this will be significant, by the way, but I would certainly not take the liberty of making specific amounts here. Finally, allow me, honourable Member, because I hope that I have responded to all your specific criticisms in order to ask you to listen to these answers, both you and the Jobbik faction to support this bill. After all, if I understand it correctly, we agree that the regulatory objective must be that it is a matter of national sovereignty, that modern legislation is needed and that it is necessary to ensure transparency, and that this legislation, which lies before us, provides all of this perfectly. Thank you for your attention, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-02-16-258	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, will be the first among them to say his speech, "Them left on the side of the road." Congressman, please.
u2021-02-16-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, When I was elected Parliamentary Representative in 2018, I promised myself that I would serve these four years in such a way that I would strive to remain the same man I was when I took my oath as my representative. This was one of my vows, and the other was to be always in these four years the voice of the people whose cry for help is not heard between these thick walls. I'm going to do the same now, and I'm going to fulfill my promise to a mother in Peace County. A few weeks ago, this mother wrote me a long letter describing how her family has been through so much ordeal in the last year. And my job now is to bring his truth to this room, to bring his cry for help here, to bring his thoughts here, to show at least a few people what the success propaganda conducted by the Prime Minister looks like today and in the last year's sad Hungarian reality; to see a family living an ordinary life with respect for their children, who do not want to live their lives out of aid and charity, how they have struggled for the last few months, how parents have tried to make a living for the family, and how they have tried to stay on their feet. This peaceful mother's husband opened a shop last January, it's a simple shoe repair business, and when the closures came, this shoe repair business dropped to zero from one day to the next, and since this activity was not part of the government-supported activities, the continued operation of this business was quite simply impossible. This family raised two children, had to be at home with the children from spring, when the schools closed, and the mother working at the multinational was out of freedom by mid-April, and thanked her for her work at the beginning of August. But he's got diabetes in the family, he's been out of care for eight months, and he's finally on a private trip, and he's got that kind of protection to get his candy down. There are also people in this family who need a gastroenterologist, but private treatment costs such a terrible amount of money that the family simply cannot manage. Prescribed medications and medical treatments cost more than parents' salaries. This family has not received any state aid or support in the last year. This family, this family of the Peaceful County family, couldn't count on their own country in trouble, couldn't count on a shared home, couldn't count on children or parents. Once upon a time, this family had recovered from a very difficult and very hard, very deep crisis, when they were on the streets because of their franc credit, and then they fought back with years of hard work. Now we have a crisis on our hands again, and this completely ordinary Peaceful County family is now struggling to survive again, to stay on its feet. This is the case of the Békés county family, but there are still tens of thousands of Hungarian families in the same situation. This family doesn't want credit, they don't want charity, they want an opportunity to live a normal, decent life under these circumstances. They are fighting for their lives, you can be sure of that, but those who are in a decision-making position here in this House should at last move for the sake of these completely ordinary, not just peace and county families. It is a strong family, and there are thousands and thousands of other strong families in Hungary like them, the Peaceful County people, and they will survive this crisis. We will survive this crisis and we will survive my Fidesz fellow Members who are not in this Chamber. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-16-260	Thank you. Congressman Gergely Kálló, the representative of Jobbik, will now come with the title of our common affairs. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-261	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my last speech here, I invited you on an imaginary journey to Dunaújváros, the Iron Works. I would like to invite you to an imaginary time travel, also the site of the Ironworks, and the time: a year ago, February 16th. For the opposition, it's like going to an amusement park, and for the ruling party, it's like going to a haunted house. For exactly one year ago, the common opposition, the opposition, struck the governing parties very seriously, and, thanks to the cooperation and cooperation, I was able to win against the Fidesz-KDNP candidate. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] Thank you. This victory, however, is not about me. I'm a little side-player of this victory, it's about unity, unity, and strength behind unity. [[23.20]] I would like to present this to you, because we have succeeded in achieving results in the centre of the 4th constituency of Fejér County in Dunaújváros, despite the restrictions, thanks to the cooperation over the last year. I would like to predict that I am pleased to have been a part of these changes. Thanks to the cooperation, the cafetheria of public institutions has doubled in Dunaújváros. Social workers received a one-off allowance in the middle of the pandemic. Public transport has changed according to the needs of the age and population, and such transformation has not been the case since buses have been in Dunaújváros. The municipality is transparent and traceable against the previous cycle. The accountability lawsuits are in place, and we're waiting for the results. The holiday meal is also more widely available. A new, more environmentally friendly detox system has been developed. A climate protection strategy will be introduced and two nurserys will be renewed. E-cars are fully free of charge, new, large number of parking spaces are established, will be established and continuously established. The roads, the road faults are under constant repair. The wasteful institutions, which submitted invoices to the municipality unaccounted for and unchecked, have terminated contact. The most important thing is that the first problems of the Ironworks, thanks to our cooperation, we reacted immediately, and thanks to God, it seems that thanks to this cooperation and awareness-raising, the government is finally taking action for the Iron Works. So it is clear that cooperation is working, not against Hungary, as you claim to be, but for our communities and for our settlements. When I was elected, I took an oath. I swore I'd work for the district and work for the people in the district. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You made an oath, too, but I can see that you are fighting against all of this, and you are constantly fighting against us. Please stop this as soon as possible, because I'm telling you, the collaboration works, so let's work together for the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Learn from us. Learn from the work we do for our constituents, for the people. I'm asking you to stop fighting and fighting against us, because if you don't, you're gonna get a bigger lesson in 2022 than I gave you a year ago in February. Ceterum censeo, the Ironworks must be saved, I remain the servant of my district. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-02-16-262	Thank you very much. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, the representative of Jobbik is following:. When will there be a community vineyard plant in the Balatonboglár wine region? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-02-16-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In Hungary, the necessary developments in the wine sector are difficult to achieve at producer level due to the high investment costs and the lack of own resources. In the successful wine regions abroad and now in part in the Tokaj wine region, the vast majority of production is carried out on a Community basis. How? A Community purchasing system will be established to reduce costs, to enable the production of products with higher added value by achieving more advanced wine technologies, thereby increasing profitability. They provide machine services for the cultivation of plantations, so all producers do not need to buy expensive machines for themselves. In Somogya, however, the situation is different. In the mid-1990s, after the privatization of BB, the lives of 1,600 families were devastated by this unfortunate liquidation of the plant. Since then, 70 percent of the grapes produced on 3200 hectares in the Balatonboglár wine region have not been processed locally. In recent years, large wineries fattened up on some tender money, abused their dominant position, bought the grapes deep below the cost price and forced the vine producers to manage losses. It is no coincidence that many have since finished growing grapes. As a possible solution to the problem, I proposed to Mr.István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, the construction of a new, modern vineyard plant owned by local producer groups. In his reply, the Minister assured me that the portfolio would be happy to examine and assist all investment projects involving a wide range of producer cooperation in the Balatonboglár wine region. Now, in a sports language, I will throw the ball back to the minister, because, under the leadership of the Balatonboglár cellar association, farmers would like to set up a Community vineyard processing plant, based on a producer cooperation, near the M7 motorway, which would serve the producers of the four wine regions around Lake Balaton. During the preliminary claim assessment, a total of 1,200 hectares of wine-growing producers made a declaration of their intention to join a Western European type wine cellar cooperative. The idea was supported earlier by the President of the Chamber of Agriculture in Somogy County, and it turned out that the plans of the Community vineyard processing plant were made out of tens of millions of forints, but for some reason it was not built. Ladies and gentlemen, The cellar cooperative model has been successful in Western Europe for decades. Experience in Tokaj shows that producers save between 500 and 800 thousand forints per hectare per year by a Community-owned vine processor. It's an exemplary performance. With the help of the government, the Tokaj-hegyalja vineyard processor was built from HUF 8.2 billion. The investment seems to have fulfilled its expectations. With all due respect, the need for investment with a broad cooperation of the winemakers in Balaton has already been made. The question is, when can they count on the government's help? We look forward to your reply, and thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-02-16-264	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 22 February 2021. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good evening, good night, everyone.
