u2021-12-02-0	Good morning, good afternoon. Dear Parliament, The 18th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be notaries Lajos Szűcs and Bence Tordai for my help. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, A parliamentary report by the President of the Curia on the activities of the Curia in 2020 will follow in line with the general debate on the provision of a legal unit and on the proposal for a resolution on the adoption of the Curia until closure. Report submitted by the President of the Curia B/16704. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/17391. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt András Varga, President of the Curia, author of the report. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2021-12-02-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The characteristic of the Mansion's 2020 report is that it is about a year in which President Péter Darák led the Mansion from the beginning to the end. Although, in the last two and a half months of the year's events, I was already on the board. The year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be the year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be the year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be the year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be the year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be the year 2020 will be the year 2020 and the year 2020 will be Today, we see that the Curia stands and operates as a valued institution both at home and abroad, but we also know that this decade has brought considerable challenges. Please allow me, first and foremost, to give a very brief description of some of the characteristics. Five case-law analysis groups were set up in 2020 on the practice of compensation and conditional release conditions, judicial practice on the interpretation of trafficking in human beings, judicial practice based on the law on national private law, building law procedures and the practice of atypical forms of employment. Some indicators of the action for the application of the law: in 2020, the Criminal College 5 and the Administrative College 4 and the Civil College 3 have adopted a single law resolution and the Administrative and Civil College have also adopted 2 decisions on a common legal unit. The Penalty College did not form in 2020, the Administrative College 4 opinion, the Civil College 3 opinion, which was not mandatory, but still gave direction to the other courts. In 2020, a total of 6 complaints were lodged from the legal unit in 2020, 5 of which were rejected by the Complaints Council in 2020. As regards the other subject of the report, as regards the City Council of the Curia, I can say that there have been a total of 32 municipal normal control cases, of which 20 were judicial initiatives, 9 were government-office proposals and 3 were from individuals who were not entitled to submit them. A total of 29 cases were completed by the Council of the Municipality, of which 4 were from the previous year, 25 from the reference year, from 2020; 22 out of the 29 took a substantive decision; 4 out of the remaining 7 cases terminated the proceedings, twice rejected the motion, and one case was closed without any substantive measure. If you look at the details of this, the 22 substantive cases can be said to have meant the annulment of 12 decisions, or at least the finding of unlawfulness, 7 negative cases and 1 partially illegal ones. According to its subject, most cases affected the legality of local tax, land tax and construction tax legislation, this was the majority of 13 out of 29 cases, the number of decisions on the legality of local construction regulations increased, and in proportion, not in number, the number of cases related to the regulation of the protection of settlement image and the number of cases relating to community co-existence decreased. Dear House, In the light of all these data, the following general assessment may be made. In 2020, many and significant legislative changes affected the operation of the Curia. Following the change of regime, the National Assembly set up the judgment boards for the purpose of exempting the Curia from second-degree proceedings. However, CXXVII of 2019 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article First, in administrative and public service matters, the jurisdiction of the courts and tribunals has ceased, and the Curia has become a general second instance court with jurisdiction throughout Hungary. In addition, the jurisdiction of the courts in the judicial proceedings relating to the exercise of the right of assembly has ceased, and the Curia is now acting in the first and last instance, with the exception of the dissolution. As a result of all these changes, the Curia has become a supreme court where, in addition to exercising classical review powers, first, second and third-degree proceedings are also taking place. This complexity has posed significant challenges for the institution, in particular for the Administrative College: it was necessary to decide on 8 or 3 days' deadlines. The new powers required new advice, new judges from the new councils. The establishment of councils and the appointment of judges started at the beginning of 2020, but not entirely, and I must even note that it was not fully completed even in 2021. In addition, the operation of the Curia was influenced by procedural laws and their changes. More than half of the new cases arrive at the Administrative College, which already in 2020 brought about the restructuring of the Council structure, and this was followed by the transformation of the division of cases. Recognizing this process and its impact, the Honourable Parliament decided at the end of 2020 to make it easier for the Curia to adapt to the changes, and in line with our constitutional traditions and the customs of the higher courts of other countries, it was possible to switch to the larger number of judicial councils. It is at least as important and even more important in a public sense that the Parliament confirmed the role of the Curia in the provision of the legal unit by the entry into force of 2020. [[9.10]] Two systems have been developed to ensure the unity of rights in the world. One was based on the decisions of the continental, the Supreme Courts, and the other, with the binding force of ad hoc decisions, would like to ensure predictable judgment. The two systems are set out in Annex XX. It started to affect each other in the first century, and this is what happened in Hungary. Nevertheless, the so-called limited precedent system that entered into force in 2020 was not entirely new. Since 1998, it has been included in the old law of the Court of Justice, and the rule that if one of the Curia's judgmental councils wishes to derogate from a decision already taken by another judgmental council is still in force, it is not free to do so, but is obliged to initiate a legal unit procedure. It's a precedent. The fact that the change of model started last year was also an undetectable reason, it is clear that since 2004 the Hungarian courts actually operated in a precedent system. The interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union is binding on the courts of the Member States, including the courts of Hungary, where EU law is applicable in the case. These interpretations are a precedent for the case-by-case rulings of the European Court of Justice. He lived side by side without any confusion, and even mixed up in the daily practice of the Hungarian courts with a less limited interpretation of the law of precedent and of the decisions. This was extended to the Curia's ad hoc decisions by CXXVII of 2019. Law. As a result, a very fine but efficient system was created. The Curia's decisions are binding on all courts, but lower court courts may differ if they can justify the reason for the derogation. Such a reason could be the changed legislative environment, but this could also be a new element of the facts that previous decisions did not have to take into account. As a result of the new review in procedural laws, the normal, everyday legal uniting role was assigned to the Curia's review procedures, in which the Curia may also review these derogations, of course, the differences of the lower courts. Compared to this, a legal unit complaint is a quite exceptional instrument, which, despite the reviews, may be used to eliminate different decisions that may still remain. And what's new about this system? The fact that legal unification is no longer done by excluding the parties. And that's important because unity of law is not an internal matter of the courts. It's not because the parties are not in court, it's in court for the parties. And this is so important, it is so consistent with the common European approach that the opinion of the Venice Commission published in mid-October this year welcomed the institution of the complaint. It found that the new rules serve legal certainty and are in line with the requirement of judicial independence. The Venice Commission also welcomed the termination of the system of judicial decisions in principle and judicial decisions in principle as of 1 April 2020 and the fact that, on behalf of judicial bodies, executives and deliberations, a resolution for interpretation of the law could no longer be published for which no explicit authorisation was given by the law. The opinion, the opinion of the Venice Commission, also contains proposals. The old ruling-like legal unity procedure would be completely eliminated from the system. However, we need this instrument despite the opinion of the Venice Commission, because otherwise the judgmental councils of the Curia would not be able to deviate from the previous decision in any way, since the derogation only provides for the lower courts. And that would be an unthinkable, inoperable system. Therefore, the Curia has proposed to the Ministry of Justice that the old legal unit procedure should be integrated into the complaint procedure in the legal unit, following the preliminary ruling procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This would not cause any practical disturbance and would not be too extensive, although it would undoubtedly require a fundamental amendment to the law. The relevant amending rules are before this House. I must also add that the limited precedent system has not only come into the hands of the parties from a procedural point of view, but also from a substantive point of view. Since then, the parties will have to present the other courts, ultimately to the Curia, and to demonstrate convincingly why a review or complaint procedure for providing a legal unit is necessary. The system is therefore in the interest of the parties, but it is also the responsibility of the parties and their legal representatives to achieve the result, and this is the case. Therefore, it is essential not to forget: there are no 16 or 32 small mansion with your case-law; there is one Mansion and there can be one single case-law. Dear Parliament, There is, of course, another dimension to this question. The Curia is different from other courts because it cannot share responsibility for its constitutional tasks which ensure the unity of the application of the law of the courts. Special Supreme Court, one of the four Supreme Courts that determine the functioning of the courts. At the same time, it plays an exclusive role as a mediator between the other three supreme courts, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights, and the courts of domestic general jurisdiction. In this role, the Curia must balance external court effects and serve as a measure for the other courts. The Court of Justice of the European Union shall, as an authentic and binding interpreter of European law, take a binding decision on the courts of the Member States. The European Court of Human Rights, as an authentic and binding interpreter of the Convention on Human Rights, makes decisions that influence the courts, if it was a party. As an authentic and mandatory interpreter of the Fundamental Law, the Constitutional Court takes a binding decision on the courts. As an authentic and mandatory interpreter of domestic law, the Curia brings binding interpretation to the courts. What is the common forum for this wide range of mandatory interpretations and their application? The Mansion. The Court of Justice of the European Union is not a forum for redress for the Hungarian courts. The European Court of Human Rights is not a forum for redress for the Hungarian courts. The Constitutional Court is already a forum for redress for the Hungarian courts, but with the power of Cassation, i.e. the compulsory decisions of the Constitutional Court after the annulment, the ordinary courts must make it applicable to the parties in a new decision. All three mandatory upper court interpretations are therefore applied directly or indirectly by the Curia. Well, a limited precedent system is an indispensable tool for this. It is intended to ensure that district courts, tribunals, courtboards do not get lost in a wide range of interpretations of the law, but that they appear as quickly as possible in a uniform form of interpretation of the law. The limited precedent system and the institution of the legal unit complaint serve to enable the Curia to act effectively as an intermediary between the higher courts. We can see that today, and it will be more noticeable from month to month. The tool applicable from the second half of 2020 started to be completed in 2021, but its success is ensured by the preparatory, modelling work that has been used to prepare the Mansion for the systematic application of the new instrument in organisational, procedural and paper-processing matters. [[9.20]] However, this complex judicial system in the Member States, ordinary courts, constitutional courts, international and supranational courts is based on the assumption that each court has clear jurisdiction and that its judicial structure remains within the limits of its powers. This hypothesis has long been challenged by reality, and the challenge is perpetuated from day to day. In 2020, it was already clear that the conflict of applicable rights would easily lead to a conflict between the courts. Dear House, In addition to all these challenges, the year 2020 brought an additional challenge: faced with the epidemic caused by the coronal virus. Last March, the country stopped from one week to the next, and the courts became uncertain, so the operation of the Curia. The government has declared an emergency throughout Hungary in order to prevent the consequences of the human epidemic which threatens the safety of life and property, to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens, and has declared an extraordinary period of judgment from 15 March to 29 March 2020 and an emergency situation from 4 November 2020. During this time, the complete closure of the Curia did not take place for a day, obviously except for the break, although the on-call was still working. Following the exceptional case-law period, it was laid down by law which procedural acts may be carried out by the courts through an electronic communications network or other device capable of transmitting electronic images and sounds, as well as a wider scope of cases that could be considered outside the hearing. A presidential measure has also been issued, which has laid down, inter alia, the tasks of each department, the order of holding meetings and events, the rules of entry and residence in the building, the arrangements for out-of-court work and the means required to protect the health of its members, and, obviously, the necessary hygiene measures. As a result, the Curia fully fulfilled the tasks arising. The transition and recovery took place smoothly, and even at all court levels, the number of final arrivals exceeded the number of arrivals in the Curia alone, not by little, by 5.8 percent. However, it should be noted that this was probably a one-time result. Looks like the 19th. The situation has been known since the first century, and the Curia has once again become the most overwhelmed court in the country. The data show that in 2021 the number of cases to the Curia will increase by one third by 30% compared to 2020 while the number of judges who actually judge the Curia has not changed. To put it quite simply, this year, a fourth case came with each of the three cases compared to 2020 and a third case came with each of the two cases in the administrative field. The burden of the case thus rises to the level before the formation of the judgment boards, while now there are five judging boards, which I would like to repeat, which the Parliament has set up for the relief of the Curia. This situation, in turn, leads to a lack of legal unification and review of the Curia and to an increase in the backlog of the case. This law, which sanctions the length of lawsuits with financial satisfaction, which will enter into force next year, poses very serious dangers. And I must point out that all this was not predictable because of the general social degradation of the Covid epidemic, so that it was not possible to prepare for it. However, the re-starting of effective defence has brought about a boost in administrative decision-making and, consequently, the need for judicial control. Dear Parliament, In order to halt the critical process, but at least to brake it, the Curia indicated that it would be justified to redirect the majority of cases falling within the administrative competence of the second degree to the judgment boards. The Curia has no competence for an independent legislative initiative, but it may indicate the need for it. That is why I asked in the debate on the report before the Judicial Committee that, if the government sees an opportunity to do so, it should help. This initiative was supported by the President of the National Court of Justice at the last full meeting of the Curia, and we also received the draft opinion prepared by the Ministry of Justice for the Legislative Committee. On behalf of the Curia, I would like to thank the Ministry for its help and for the support of the President of the National Court of Justice. And I would ask the honourable Parliament to support the proposal when it comes here and, of course, the report of the Curia on the year 2020. God save Hungary and the Mansion! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-02-2	I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur for the motion for a decision. Mr. President, come on up to the pulpit. Here.
u2021-12-02-3	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin my exposé, allow me to welcome Zs Varga to our plenary session with great respect. Mr András, the President of the Curia, the Vice-Presidents of the Curia, the heads of the dorms and the members of his staff. The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 117. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (b), the President of the Curia submitted to the National Assembly the activities of the Curia in 2020 in the sphere of legal unity and control of local government standards, B/16704. The Court of Justice of the European Union, acting on behalf of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union and acting on behalf of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and acting on behalf of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union, shall adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, One of the features of this report from the year 2020 in Curia, which Mr. President said, is that it is a year in which President Péter Darák led the Curia from the beginning to the end, but the report before the National Assembly is Zs Varga. President Andras represents him. In the framework of the Commission's debate, the Judicial Committee heard a detailed report on the work of the Curia last year. The 2020 report is also specific in two other respects compared to those adopted in previous years. On the one hand, a number of major legislative changes affected the operation of the Curia and, on the other hand, as with all other institutions, the Curia was directly affected by the Covid-19 epidemic, which brought new challenges and solutions to its operation. As a result of the changes, the Curia has become a supreme court where, in addition to the exercise of classical review powers, there are first, second and third-degree proceedings. Several of the legislative changes have led to the introduction of a new review procedure for the legal unit, the complaint procedure for the legal unit, which was introduced in accordance with the recommendation of the Venice Commission. [[9.30]] This new instrument contributes to ensuring the unity of rights in a manner that affects them at the request of the parties to the proceedings. It is also a significant change that, in order to reduce the legal unification methods without the parties' involvement, the so-called "ebh' and the "ebd' system of judicial decisions in principle ended on 1 April 2020. The most important task of the Curia, based on the Fundamental Law, is to ensure the uniform case-law of the courts. During the presentation of the report, the President of Curia said that the Curia did not only fulfil its duties, but also carried out its tasks smoothly in terms of the transition and recovery. The figures show that in 2021 the number of cases to the Curia increased by one third by 30 percent compared to 2020, while the number of judges actually judging the Curia did not change, with which the Curia became once again the most overwhelmed court in the country. I was pleased to hear the President's information and oral addition to the report, in which he mentioned that his presentation by the Ministry of Justice is already here before this House. The committee also learned a summary of the role of the President of the Curia in the control of local government standards. As in the previous year's report, the Committee once again welcomed the effectiveness of the Municipality Council, which was able to give a substantive consideration to more than 90 percent of the cases submitted in 2020. As in previous years, cases were typically related to local taxes and the use of public space in 2020. The members of the Committee asked questions about the entry into force of the newly introduced complaint procedure for legal units and the effectiveness of the internship programme. On the basis of what was said in the debate, the Committee concluded that the professional objectives of the Curia for 2020 had been achieved. To conclude, I would like to repeat Zs Varga. President András spoke before a committee: the Curia Court, one of the courts of general jurisdiction under the Fundamental Law, but at the same time it is different from the other courts. The present report, as I said, presents the work of the Curia led by President Peter Darák, whose sacrifice I would like to thank you for. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, at the meeting of the Judicial Committee on 26 October 2021, B/16704, the President of the Curia's activities in the field of legal unity and control of local government standards in the year 2020. His report was adopted unanimously by 9 votes in favour. The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee shall be laid down in Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure. H/17391 submitted pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section H/17391 The President of the Curia recommends to this House a report on its proposal for a resolution. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] H/17391. The President of the Curia recommends to this House a report on its proposal for a resolution. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2021-12-02-4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Secretary Völner to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] It says no. Then there will be speeches by the lead speaker. In this line, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Zoltán Kovács, can give his opinion; he will do so from here on the pulpit. Congressman, please.
u2021-12-02-5	Mr President, Dear President of the Curia, Ladies and gentlemen, Dearly invited They have appeared! In the case of a report, speakers will inevitably have more overlaps, since we will be talking about the same thing, perhaps from a different perspective at times. Therefore, I would like to apologise in advance to those present, if the same sentences were to appear either in the President's report or in the case of the rapporteur's statement. It is well known to all of us that the law on the organisation and administration of the courts requires the report, which the President of the Curia must do annually. This happened before the Justice Committee, and it just happened before the National Assembly. The report is a framework, which is defined in this report: the activities of the Curia to ensure the unity of the application of the law of the court, the conflict and destruction of the municipal decree in other legislation, and the duties of the local government to determine the failure to comply with its legislative obligation based on law. The specific feature of the Mansion report for the year 2020 is that it is about a year that President Darák has already carried out in its entirety, thank you for his work. But, as the President said, in the last quarter of the year, he was also the President of the Council, so we can see his hand on the subject of the report. Dear Parliament, The President-elect, elected on 19 October, had the task of ensuring continuity in order to present this report here, although his appointment entered into force on 1 January 21. We all know that the function of the Curia is twofold, on the one hand it carries out a case-law activity and on the other hand it ensures the unity of the application of the law of the courts. The report was drawn up in accordance with a specific framework and a set of criteria, listing: the professional objectives of 2020 and their achievement, its activities for the purposes of the unity of the application of judicial law, the professional problems encountered and the measures taken to achieve them. The President has already spoken about this in detail at the level of law theory, taking into account the international outlook, the activities of the Council of the Municipality in 2020 and the professional objectives of the 21st year. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's Supreme Court has set itself a number of remarkable professional goals for the year 2020. Within the framework of the case-law analysis groups, the examination of the current questions of case-law continued. In the light of proposals made in the framework of a national technical meeting, five study groups were set up on the basis of the Curia's opinion. These are: conditions for compensation and conditional release in prison judicial practice; judicial practice on the interpretation of trafficking in human beings; Article XXVIII of 2017 on private international law. the judicial practice of law; the practice of administrative procedures for construction; the examination of judicial practices of atypical forms of employment. From the point of view of legal security, it is important that the Curia reviews its legal acts in the light of legislative changes and the fundamental law-interpreting activities of the Constitutional Court. In 2020, the Criminal College took five decisions on criminal justice units; the Administrative College has four separate decisions and two decisions on the unit of law with the Civic College; and the Civic and Economic Civic Civic Civic Civic Civic Civic Civic Council has taken three decisions. [[9.40]] Dear Parliament, In addition to describing the professional objectives and results, as we have already heard, we cannot ignore, as is the case with all other institutions, the effects of the coronal virus epidemic on the functioning of the Curia. The President spoke in detail about this, and I would not like to repeat it, but I would point out that during this period, which has resulted in a previously unknown and indeed extraordinary situation, the operation of the Curia has not been halted, that two weeks of extraordinary judgment breaks are not really significant, and so the Curia has not been completely closed. It was then determined by law which procedural acts the courts may conduct through an electronic communications network or other means. A presidential measure was issued, which laid down precisely the certification of judges and judicial staff, as well as the health of clients, the rules of residence in buildings, the conditions for teleworking. This has also facilitated the use of electronic means in the future, whether in consultation or in case-law. So, in a sense, some paradigm shifts are inevitable in terms of the future. As a result, in this challenging and difficult environment, the Curia was able to perform its tasks in a stable manner, the transition and the recovery were smooth, and even at the Curia, as we have heard, the number of cases completed exceeded the number of arrivals. I must say that this is commendable, and we thank the Presidents and all the Members of the Curia, who, in this difficult situation, have been able to ensure the continued functioning of the supreme judiciary. Dear Parliament, A few words concerning the operation of the City Council of the Curia. As in previous years, the proportion of decisions taken in 2020 was the highest in the assessment of the legality of local tax legislation. A significant proportion of the proposals, similar to previous years, came from the local government council in the context of a specific standard control procedure, i.e. from the courts; the number of decisions on the legality of the local construction regulations continued to increase; unlike the previous years, no decision was taken by the Council of the Municipality of Kuria in 2020. As a new group of cases, as compared to previous years' practice, in 2019 the Municipal Council of the Curia received proposals under which the municipality had failed to fulfil its obligation to establish municipal image regulations. It should be pointed out that, in 2020, failure to comply with a legislative obligation was established only in these two cases, even though it is known that during the previous government, the government granted special State aid for the creation of municipal image regulations, and despite all that, there was a failure. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the Curia performs its tasks effectively, thereby contributing to strengthening the trust of society in justice. In addition, the Curia is not only the main judicial forum, but as an institution itself the place of the formation and consolidation of legal practice, as well as the creator of the Hungarian legal tradition. The report and the proposal for a decision, presented and presented by the chairman of the committee, is supported by the Fidesz Group. I would ask the honourable Members to also support it. President Vejkey also presented the committee's unanimous decision, the voting rates. For the future, we wish both the President and his colleagues good work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Dr. Varga Zs. András applauds.]]
u2021-12-02-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here.
u2021-12-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear President of the Curia, Dear Colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We heard a report saying that although Zsolt András Varga reported on the year 2020, which was the full year of Peter Darák's presidency, this is what this report is about. We have learned from the beginning of the report the evolution of the Curia's operation since the change of regime, and we can see that the Curia is undergoing a continuous transformation, as well as its operation and tasks, which obviously poses quite a challenge for the workers of the Curia. So we could see that, at the time of the change of regime, ordinary and extraordinary remedies were there, and then they tried to remove the Mansion and then the Supreme Court; and then the system of judgment boards was set up in Hungary, whose task was to exempt the Curia from second-degree judgment. Then it changed with the change of administrative lawsuits: first, second, third degree. This was once again a serious change in role in relation to the previous one, since first-rate cases were included, and then again second-degree and third-degree. Then his most important task was to ensure the uniform case-law of the courts, Mr President, on this matter he talked a lot about in the pulpit, the essence of which was that the decisions of the Curia had been precedent. This is important in the direction in which Hungary is progressing in the development of law, since continental law has been characteristic in Hungary for 150 years or more, and there has been no precedent system. A certain resolution of this has now emerged, which Mr President praised and felt was good. Obviously, there are advantages, but there are pitfalls. The benefits. Anyone who has exercised the law in Hungary, and I, who have been a practicing lawyer for nearly two decades, have experienced that if we have filed a form of action in certain courts, we have received, say, the answer in our county, and it may be that in the county in the other part of the country there is a completely opposite judgment. Indeed, this case law, when interpreted differently in this county and differently in that county, leads to serious legal uncertainty in the country; and obviously, anyone who is a loser does not like it and tries to achieve victory in any way, it is obviously the most important, and it certainly feels bad that he could have won elsewhere. Obviously, a common case-law and ensuring it is extremely important, and that is why it would be very important that this case-law be developed at national level. And indeed, this ensures stability of the law, stability of justice, predictability. There is only one great danger if there is some influence on the work of the Curia, on the work of the legal unit, in the event of unexpected political influence, it would seriously affect justice throughout Hungary. So this is in any way a threat, because for the lower courts, obviously with a tiny difference, which Mr President has said, but it would be compulsory to make those decisions. Obviously, as Mr President has said and said here, if there is any new element, there is a derogation. Obviously, if the Parliament decides to create a different law in the meantime, the legal basis will be different, on the basis of which it should be judged, in this case also a derogation can be made, but this basically determines the case-law of the lower courts. And that means that the Curia's responsibility will be incredibly increased in the future, not that it hasn't been before, but it will make the Curia even more responsible. [[9.50]] In the 2019 report, we read that one of the most important tasks the Curia considered to be the solution to foreign exchange credit issues, and a discussion was held on this in several forums, where they tried to interpret the legislation and tried to interpret the law properly, obviously acceptable to society. I see that this was no longer a fundamental issue in 2020, and this has changed at the same time as the problem of foreign exchange lenders, unfortunately, is still an acute problem that has not been resolved. I think that this is obviously not a mistake that can be blamed primarily on the Curia, because the Curia is implementing the laws, the laws that the legislators are creating, and here it is primarily the responsibility of the Parliament that it has failed to come to a common denominator on this subject. Although the government has always communicated that it has solved the problem of foreign exchange lenders, unfortunately, as we have seen, it was not true, since the government was entirely on the banks' side, not on the side of Hungarian citizens, and has brought such legislation, which has seriously affected hundreds of thousands of foreign currency-credit families, which has led to evictions of thousands or tens of thousands. We have seen that the work of the Curia was primarily aimed at finding the best possible solution within the legal framework in any case. Unfortunately, in the absence of the legal framework, this has not always been properly implemented, but, as I said, this cannot be the responsibility of the Curia in any way. What is still on the table here, and what Mr President has mentioned in his report, is an examination of the legal interpretation issues arising from the application of the new civil order. Actually, the new Pp. immediately when the new law came into force and applied, this was an immediate problem. Here it was primarily lawyers and clients for whom this was a serious problem, because in many cases it was repeatedly rejected, and here I will obviously talk about the first instance courts, these cases were rejected without a substantive examination, which had brought in unpleasant news of practitioners for several decades, when, for the second time, they filed the action corrected for the third time, and they were still thrown back to being incompetent. Obviously, there must have been some kind of compromise. I am very pleased that the Curia has noticed this problem, and has also dealt with the issues of interpretation of the law arising from the application of the new civil order, and has tried to set a direction in this regard, but I am very pleased that the legislator has also found out about this problem, and then slowly it has started to eliminate this problem today. So we've already touched the new civil order here in Parliament, and we've changed it, I think, completely positive. The problem may arise again, the legislative problem is that it had to be pushed through very quickly and very suddenly, I do not know why, on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice at that time, the new civil order was adopted in no time, practically without debate. I remember that Minister Trócsányi told me about the pulpit how good it was that in the 1950s Pp was accepted by the Parliament practically without debate. I think that this is not the right solution, but the right solution is to obviously discuss and discuss these laws. There's time, not a day to discuss a hundred-page piece of legislation, just like it did here in Parliament. Unfortunately, this problem occurred on the side of law enforcement, both on the side of the courts and on the side of both clients and lawyers, and this was primarily a problem for them. And, yes, we are glad that the Curia has also tried to resolve this issue in its own way, among the legal options. How do we put our opinion on a court? The work of a court, or the work of the Curia, is very difficult to give an opinion. Obviously, there's statistical data. We are very happy about this, and we consider it very important, as Mr President has said, that we have been able to assess by 5.8 percent more cases, and that means that we have been working backlogs. This is certainly a positive process, although we always say that the speed of solving the case does not always matter, but rather that the satisfaction of the customers is the most important, but we obviously cannot measure this. I have met several times with a judgment in my two decades of lawyering, when the losing party came out of a court hearing that he took note of and accepted, and even understood, why the judge judged and accepted that decision. I think these are the best cases. These are clearly shown by the appeal indicators as to how much they appeal those cases, which usually cannot be an indicator of the Mansion, and a measure of satisfaction is very difficult. In any case, it is welcome that the number of cases worked has increased by 5.8 percent in this respect. But what is quite shocking, Mr President, is that the number of cases has increased by 30 percent. Obviously, this matters a great deal in stress, and its effectiveness can be impaired for the future, and obviously there must be a solution to this. I believe that all parliamentary factions in this matter would be obviously partners, and that political will in this respect would certainly be there. The most important thing at any level of the courts is to ensure the ability to operate, and I do not think that it is necessary to increase the administrative deadlines for the Curia by up to a year, two years on average, or to resolve a case quickly in a slendrian way. Here it is important to have good solutions, good judgments, acceptable judgments, good complaints from legal units, and that this should all be okay. The increase in the 30 percent number of case files is indeed a major problem, so the number of judges must be changed in any way, regrouped if this is necessary and what Mr President has said is that the administration of second-degree cases should in some cases be transferred to the jurisdiction of the referee. I also think that these are important, and we support this in any way, if this is a legislative issue, the Jobbik Group will support this. Then Mr President will write about an old-fashioned problem, or perhaps it is not a problem, but rather a desire, this return to the old judicial palace. I have been a Member of Parliament since 2010, and I believe that since 2010 it has occurred to me every year that the Curia will be able to move back in. It's always a fact that, yes, sooner or later this move back will happen. Well, we don't see that happening anytime soon. Obviously, it would be a very nice thing to have several national organizations in Kossuth Square and, for example, the Curia in its old place. Obviously, it would be a nice thing to do, and we hope that this will happen as soon as possible. I would like to ask Mr President, if you have any information about this, then in your reply, please explain how this is going to work, whether there is any progress in this, or whether there will be any change in this in the near future. In the context of 2020, everyone has highlighted the epidemic situation. Yeah, that put the courts in a very new position, including the Mansion. I think that the courts have been able to handle this very well at all levels, and so has the Curia, and in this context, it has indeed managed to solve these problems as smoothly as possible, at least as far as possible compared to the situation, and to adapt to this new system. I think that the work of the courts and the work of the Curia can be said to be good for 2020 and therefore the proposal of the Judicial Committee, I think, is eligible for the year 2020. I would like to thank the President of the Curia, his vice presidents and all his employees for their work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[10.00]]
u2021-12-02-8	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, the lead speaker of the KDNP, Imre Vejkey, I would like to draw your attention to one interesting point, because there is clearly an opposite, and it is not waiting for the decision of the Curia. When a speaker is answered by a national, the term "rejoining" is used in this interesting way. In the rejoinder, the word "reciprocating" is in it, and it is not "reciprocating" in which it means "supplied" on the contrary. I am only saying this to make it easier to prepare for Congressman Imre Vejkey. So we're talking about a return answer, not a reverse answer. Here you go.
u2021-12-02-9	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to welcome Zs. Varga. Mr. András, President of the Curia, Deputy Presidents, Head of the College and his colleagues. I do not wish to repeat what I have already performed in my expo as chairman of the Justice Committee, so I would like to begin my speech in medias. My first point. My explicit legal position is that the institution of the legal unit complaint introduced in 2020 fully complies with all the criteria of the rule of law, but it was possible to hear siren voices in this respect from Brussels. These siren voices have spoken, despite the fact that this remedy meets all the necessary requirements, and also takes into account the fact that the proceedings will take place at the request of the parties and with their participation. Nor could it have been against the rule of law that the ordinary courts should respect the judgment of the Curia and justify it if they did not follow the decisions of the Curia, and even the Venice Commission began to investigate this issue, and, to my knowledge, it has made a positive decision in recent weeks. My second point would be how the judges in Hungary were in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in 2020. I find it worrying if the interpretation of Strasbourg without a positive legal basis conflicts with the basic laws or other laws of our country. In my view, the binding force of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights should not affect either individual courts or individual judges. As a third point, I must again express my concern. I find it amazing that the European Parliament and any of its committees, in addition to the courtesy visit, address a series of questions of a political nature to the Supreme Court of Justice of Hungary, the Curia. Ladies and Gentlemen, We respect the division of power in Montesquieu and thus judicial independence, but it seems that the independence of the court from Parliament is not respected by the European Parliament. This kind of political procedure in the European Parliament reminds me of communist times when the political players instructed the judges. This is what we've been fighting against, and now it's back from Brussels, and it's coming through the window. My fourth point is that it is more than a concern that the European Commission's report on the rule of law for 2020 contains serious, false statements concerning the Curia. I ask Mr. President what he could do about these false, inconclusive accusations. Finally, I would like to ask Mr President, as a fifth point, exactly what was the reference to the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the oral annex to his report. Can you elaborate on that? Dear President of the Curia, You should know that in the fight for independent justice you can count on Fidesz-KDNP as well as on the adoption of the 2020 report. I wish you good health, good luck and God's blessing for your work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-02-10	Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP, from here, gives his speech on the pulpit. Here you go.
u2021-12-02-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Vice-Presidents. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Well, it is a happy country where the Montesquieu principles are fully respected. In fact, in this case, a National Assembly only fulfils its formal obligations by discussing the Mansion report of the current year. I have been thinking a lot about exactly what to start with, and what the content of my speech should be, since an interesting transitional year here is the year 2020: Péter Darák's mandate expired this year, and the Parliament elected a new President of the Curia. I would like to thank Mr Péter Darák for his work and all the colleagues, employees and employees of the Curia, I think it is true that the vast majority of them are doing high quality work and dedicated work, of course. However, since my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, who spoke before me, made some political remarks, I think it is appropriate that we do so even in this part, in a transitional year, from the point of view of the opposition; then we will see, because we will say that Mr.Péter Darák was not a consensually elected actor on behalf of the Parliament when he was elected. There have been critical voices, and then, of course, there are questions, such as the issue of foreign exchange credentials, which are often criticised by the opposition, but it can be said that it has done its work with public satisfaction, and that it was very much above the expectations of the opposition. In this respect, I say that this option is open to all, so as much as there is a debate surrounding the election, in practice, the views of stakeholders, citizens and, by the way, the OBT can clearly change positively about the person. The period during which the new President was elected by the Parliament concerned the specific reporting year, the calendar year. This was preceded by a meeting of the OBT when Mr President was heard exactly on 9 October 2020 and here the preliminary opinion was not positive on the part of the OBT: 1 yes and 13 no votes were received during this period. According to the explanatory statement, I quote literally:. However, the fact that the candidate has not previously carried out any judicial activity in the judicial system, has no courtroom experience, has no practical history in the area of litigation and judicial administration. Since the change of regime, the office of President of the Supreme Court and the Curia has only been held by a person who has worked as Judge for a longer or shorter period. They also added that Dr. Zsolt András Varga's candidacy was made possible by two recent amendments to the law, which cannot be met with the constitutional requirement that a person who appears impartial to the outside observer, independent of other powers, be placed at the top of the judicial system. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.10]] This was not the only problem, however, Zs Varga. Around Andrew's identity. It is important to draw attention to the relationship between his appointment and András Baka, who was the President of the Supreme Court, between 2009 and 11. By transforming the Supreme Court into a Mansion, Dr. András Baka lost his post on the grounds that he did not have five years of judicial experience despite being a judge of the European Court of Human Rights for 17 years. This was then achieved by the majority of governments by the fact that international and constitutional judicial experience was not regarded as judicial experience. However, this rule was changed in 2019 by taking into account the experience gained in the judicial practice of the International Judicial Organisation as a judge, as a chief advisor, as a constitutional judge and as a chief advisor in the Office of the Constitutional Court in the assessment of judicial experience. By applying this rule, Dr. András Baka could not have been replaced in 2011, but it also resulted in Dr. Zs. Varga. András became the President of the Curia. On this basis, there are a number of important issues on this issue, which could clearly also be relevant for the 2020 report. When we talk about the efficiency and high quality of the Curia's activities, it is essential to mention the requirement of judicial independence. According to Article 26 (1) of the Fundamental Law, judges are independent and subject only to the law and cannot be ordered in their judicial activities. Judges may be removed from office only for reasons and in accordance with the procedure laid down by a cardinal law. Judges shall not be members of a party or engage in political activities. Law on the status and remuneration of judges 39. According to § (1) of the Rules of Procedure, judges may not be members of a party or engage in political activities. The question is that Varga Zs. András spoke earlier at a conference, according to MTI's report, about the constitutional coup being planned, and breaking the Fundamental Law would mean breaking the sovereign Hungarian state. So it is questionable to me that, based on the preliminary opinion of OBT and the preliminary expectations in public life, such a statement serves that neutrality, in relation to political activity, does not exist. hold its place with regard to the President of the Curia. I sincerely wish, in the interest of all of us, that the Parliament and the opposition parties will be given a positive picture in the course of the 21st report, compared to expectations, that this would be in the interest of all of us, but I am convinced that these issues do not serve this, these processes. That is what I would like to draw your attention to first. There is also, of course, a point in the report that has not yet been mentioned or referred to by my fellow Members, and given that child protection has an emphasis and an increasing emphasis on public life, I think that this deserves particular attention. On page 6, the report mentions, inter alia, that a case-law analysis group will be set up with regard to judicial practice on the interpretation of trafficking in human beings. Half of the victims of child sexual trafficking registered in the European Union in 2015-16 were of Hungarian origin: 647 out of 1310 and 7.4 percent under 11 years of age. The report by the US Department of Foreign Affairs, referred to several times in Parliament, has kept our country one of the worst rankings for several years. The reason for this was multifaceted, but there were also circumstances such as the conviction of persons in 2018 because they were involved in child prostitution as victims. Each of the 54 children thus sentenced were girls, and seven of the 54 children were imprisoned. Although the amendment to condemn children because of their involvement as victims in a child trafficking crime entered into force in 2020, this practice continued in part in 2020. In 2020, 19 children were convicted in the previous years, in 2019, and 54 children in 2018 because they were involved in sexual crimes as victims, all pedalized children were girls in this case as well. While in 2020 a total of 95 cases related to trafficking in human beings were registered, 4 forced labour, 34 child prostitution cases, no one was convicted of child prostitution in a row for the third year. Of course, in previous years such cases have not really started. In addition, increasing forced labour and the spread of trafficking in human beings for work are growing problems. On the one hand, Hungarian workers are being exploited, who are being transported abroad for work, mainly to Belgium, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, and on the other hand a number of people are being exploited in rural and poorer regions of Hungary. The latter means, on the one hand, the exploitation of third-country nationals. There have been reports of Ukrainian workers in this regard, and on the other hand, the exploitation of older people and homeless people for work is increasing. There are therefore a number of questions to be answered, which can be adequately answered in the context of the analysis of case law and the provision of a legal unit. Let me mention some of these. What is the reason why trafficking in human beings, especially child prostitution, is so slow? What is the reason why victims continue to be convicted of child prostitution crimes? What does the President of the Curia intend to do in such cases in order not to condemn victims of trafficking in human beings instead of real criminals? How is the Curia prepared to deal effectively with changing human trafficking problems, such as forced labour, in court? To sum up, this year is, of course, the period of its predecessor, but its election, its preparations are obviously already this year, started or took place in the autumn of 2020. So I think it was this year that we had to judge partially complexly. Obviously, most of the revelations of Parliament always show satisfaction with the operation of Mr Péter Darák and the operation of the Curia workers, and, of course, with the principles of Montesquieu, there is also a limit, perhaps, in which to make comments, but I think that your election and since then your statement on a specific matter has crossed a line. I propose to you, for the sake of all of us, Hungarian citizens, the workers of the Curia and those involved, that you refrain from doing so later. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-12-02-12	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga is the leader of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2021-12-02-13	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Thank you for the report. Indeed, we have read an exciting and good account, and we are indeed in a very strange situation, as many others have said before me, because we have heard a report that you have held, but it still covers the period of the President of the Curia who was replaced last year, while we know very well that from 1 January 2021 you, the elected new President, will represent the Curia in Parliament. Mr President also said that the year 2020 should be examined in unity, and obviously it is. Much has happened in the life of the Curia in 2020. Obviously, everyone has a different experience, a different experience of the governing parties, the Curia itself and its employees, and obviously the democratic opposition has lived differently. If we are talking about this in the Curia's report, we are listening to this, then we should simply not pass the judgment of the Hungarian justice system. And yes, it has been mentioned here, perhaps the lead speaker of the KDNP said or at least touched on the European Parliament's report on Hungary. [[10.20]] Yes, this is a very important document, otherwise, which is about the Hungarian rule of law, the situation of justice, and obviously even the situation of the media, or corruption. Since it is a very comprehensive report, and I have to add, that we are talking about a report of creepy findings, I would try to highlight only the parts of the Curia, but it is simply inevitable that we should talk about it, because, on the one hand, in recent years, the events related to the election of the President of the Curia have shuddered the moods in Hungary, and, apparently, otherwise, this has not been left without a trace in the European Union. According to the report of the European Parliament delegation on its autumn visit to Hungary, the situation has not improved since 2018, but rather deteriorated, and there remain serious concerns about the threats to the independence of justice and media freedom. Obviously, as I have just said, there is a different relationship between the opposition and other parties of government in relation to the report. I do not have a problem with that, but we must take this seriously, because the sentences that seriously affect Hungary's justice come from the pen of the European Union's dedicated Commission. The European Commission's report has identified serious problems with the rule of law in all the areas examined in Hungary, and it should not be overlooked that this is also the case for the Curia. As there has been no substantial improvement compared to last year's results, it is said in the report that the country may now fall short of significant EU funds, and in some areas this report also lists developments of concern and worsening problems previously identified. As stated in the summary of the fact-finding delegation, widespread corruption seems to have led to a parallel state, making action almost impossible in the absence of an independent judicial system. Obviously, I would expect your reaction, Mr President, to what you think, how you see this situation. The report is a priority, as I have just said, and obviously you, pro-government Members and the President of the Curia, are aware of this, the changes to the Curia and raises serious concerns about the election of the President of the Curia. We have heard a few sentences on this from the Member of the MSZP before me, so allow me to join him. The report records the steps taken before the election of the new President of the Curia that the election of the new Chief Judge was made possible by the newly introduced rules already examined in the 2020 report. He recalled that, under the new rules, constitutional judges could, at their request, be appointed as judges, so that after the end of their term of office they could be placed in the Curia, even if they had not previously served as judges. The report also underlines that the election of the President of the Curia could have taken place despite the close unanimous rejection of the candidate by the OBT and then states that the supreme judicial position was not fulfilled in accordance with European standards. The Commission also recalled that the President of the Curia has very strong administrative powers, which, at the same time as the new Judge-General's mandate, continued to be extended, adding powers to the complaint procedure for the legal unit. He found that the judges in the Curia had only an opinionary role and therefore could not offset the extensive powers of the President of the Curia. In view of the Curia's weight within the judicial system and the administrative powers conferred on the President of the Curia, the Commission also found that there was a serious concern about developments in the election of the President of the Curia regarding the independence of the courts. These are very, very hard sentences, and I don't think that can be destroyed and even swept under the rug with a political response. This requires sound, serious and professional responses. Otherwise, it seems that the European Union has lost confidence in the Hungarian government, which I believe is necessary in order for Hungary to remain an active, well-functioning and respected member of the European Union. This trust must be restored, and in this it must be the role and responsibility of the President of the Curia. And for a long, long time, it would be possible to name for hours what the problem is, and let me say it now, as it is said in our opposition circles and elsewhere with Zs. lex Varga that even in the NER it could have been born in an unusual way in two steps because otherwise it would simply not have been possible to rape the system in this current situation. Or, of course, we could talk about the fact that the OBT, the National Judicial Council, rejected the new Judge-General by an overwhelming majority, but this has already been spoken of by my opposition colleague before me. I wouldn't quote those OBT phrases. I believe that everything is in this, and from this moment on it is very difficult to say that it is almost impossible to say seriously that the European Union, I do not know how my fellow Member Vejkey put it in the pro-government benches, was communist in this situation, because on that basis, Mr Vejkey, this could also be said about the OBT, which is nonsense. Well, we're not in an easy situation, because obviously the opposition's main desire is for the Curia to do that task, free of politics, free of influence, to the best of its knowledge. However, obviously we have that fear, seeing it popping out around the Curia last year, let's call it scandals, that unfortunately politics gets in and stays in the walls of the Curia. This is a very bad direction! All I can tell you is that we have a lot to talk about, really a lot of things about the Mansion, about the situation of the justice system, about the rule of law in Hungary, about the media, there are a lot of things. In many cases, these conversations are simply not possible. The ministers of state are coming, who are prepared to tell us their usual little panels, the ringing, the serialization, let me not list any further, but real and professional answers to the opposition's questions, 99 percent of the cases simply cannot be taken out by the government. I think this is a terrible wrong direction! I would like the Curia to rise above these political battles, and you, Mr President, could ensure that you speak and do your job politically. So, as I said before, there is something to talk about, and there is not much to talk about, but I hope that after the change of government in 2022, these discussions will come, because it is inevitable that we will talk seriously about issues concerning us, Hungary, our nation. Due to the shortness of time, I would like to conclude by saying that the rule of law report, as set out in it, but the election of the President himself is nothing more than a faithful impression of the shocking and, in many cases, despicable 11 years of the Orbán course. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-02-14	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to speak for two minutes, and this is what Member Imre Vejkey, KDNP, has asked for. Here you go. [[10.30]]
u2021-12-02-15	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said here from our opposition colleagues, Mr László Varga MSZP and Mr Zoltán Varga DK lead speaker. In essence, they have taken up the European Parliament's Curia, the President of the Curia's attack wave. To give concrete answers to the questions raised by my colleague, Zoltán Varga, DK: they must see that the accusation is completely false, that a constitutional judge would not be a judge, because, for example, this is one of the accusations Zs Varga. As opposed to Andrew, he was elected president of the Curia without being a judge. It's in his name that the judge of the Constitution is a judge. But if you look at the contents, I have to say that for almost a decade the Constitutional Court has actually acted as a judge, which gives you the right to take decisions and review judgments on specific matters. So it can't be said that a constitutional judge wouldn't be a judge. On the other hand, what my opposition colleagues have brought up is the OBT, that OBT has taken a position not to recommend that the National Assembly be elected by Zs Varga. President Andras. In this regard, I can say that OBT would only have had the right under the applicable laws to decide on the suitability of the person, namely that Zs Varga. András is qualified to be president of the Curia or not. Compared to this, OBT did not make a decision in this regard, but interpreted the legislation, interpreting the... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then I will continue, and I will finish the sentence: it is not in this that you have made a decision, it is in your mind that you are the Constitutional Court, and you have exceeded your powers, but I will continue from here.
u2021-12-02-16	With all due respect, I'd like everyone to respect the house rules. Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2021-12-02-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I very much liked the President's speech on rejoinders. On the part of the Presidency, there are people who have been practicing this, not in recent times, for example President Latorcai has been speaking this way consistently for years, but that is not what I would like to say, but we have actually reached the European Union's opinion from a 2020 report to the election of the President of Curia. I don't want to comment on that. I want to comment on the subject. Csaba Gyüre spoke in foreign affairs about the report. I wouldn't get to the point where your current coalition partner, MSZP and DK, who let the spirit out of the bottle at the time in a foreign exchange loan case, who did, in fact, eliminate all previous preferential housing loans and force people into foreign exchange loans. That the government didn't do anything, I'd just like to say a few things. Ex-movement moratorium, exchange barrier, early repayment, extension of maturity, exchange rate recording, asset manager, interest rate subsidy, forinting. So we managed to save a lot of hundreds of thousands of people from this thing. As to the question of the Palace of Justice, I would like to say that this matter could have been settled by now. We do know that, based on Hausmann's plans, the Palace of Justice was completed by 96, and then the Communists came in 49, and then they moved in the Labour Institute, and then today there is a Museum of Ethnography, but they kept a small part for themselves, the Institute of Political History. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If it had moved out on time, then the Palace of Justice would have been the Curia's home long ago; we hope that this will happen soon. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-02-18	Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No signal.]] As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr András Varga, President of the Curia, if he wishes to reflect and respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2021-12-02-19	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm trying to sum up the answer so I don't waste time, but please allow me to start with some preconceptions. One of my assumptions is that no judge, the President of the Curia, has any political responsibility towards anyone. Consequently, on the grounds that any political debate and discussion should be held here with me, let me say that, in any circumstances, I cannot talk to anyone about political matters, and I will answer questions from both sides about one of the European Parliament committees. We tried to tell that committee, but this is what we read on the Curia's website, that if they are guests, as university students or any citizen who is curious about the operation of the Curia, we would be most happy to tell them, because we are happy to respond to any interest. However, if you wish to continue a political inquiry and this is what the committee concerned said, because you said that they wish to ask the Mansion in their official proceedings, we said that unfortunately this is not possible. But I wouldn't go on with it, because time is passing; obviously, just as any Hungarian parliamentary committee doesn't arrive at the Mansion to be accounted for there, it's not allowed for any other international institution, so I wouldn't go on. My second assumption is that the report may be about the unity of law or the operation of the Council of the Municipality. Obviously, we are in an unequal position with the honourable Members, because Members of Parliament have at their disposal the freedom of responsibility, which means they can say anything, but I am bound by the law. So I can't answer any questions, but I can only answer them within the framework of the Fundamental Law and the Law, and accordingly I am forced to form three packages. I am trying to answer questions directly relating to the unity of rights and the functioning of the Council of the Municipality. The second package is the one that can be linked to the unity of law and the operation of the Council of Local Governments, and I will try to answer these questions. And finally, there is the third package on which I respectfully ask that Parliament not regard this as any negative feeling on my part, but the President of the Curia cannot answer political arguments, even if political proposals happen to be related to the election of the President of the Curia; to be quite brief, the debates on the election of the President of the Curia are not part of the President of the Curia. As strange as it is, judicial independence is, unfortunately, that's what it means. That's why I never commented on this event. My sharpest wording on the decision of the National Judicial Council was that I should not tell anyone what to think, and I would go to the specific questions. Dear Parliament, I can't tell any of the Curia's advice what to think. In addition to the council in which I operate, I can say in the council on a specific matter what I think, and if the majority of the other members of the council think the same thing, then that will be the verdict. Obviously, in the case of the Legal Unit Council, the Legal Unit Complaints Council, there are several judges, not only three, but also I cannot influence any judge. It's my personal experience, and I'm trying to say with very, very strong emphasis that I don't know any judge who would give in to political pressure. It's obviously possible that there is one, I haven't met one, I certainly haven't met one at the Mansion. [[10.40]] Of course, there's a lot of pressure coming through the press, and I'm used to answering these in the right form, from anyone and from any judge. There is no greater or stronger instrument for the President of the Curia. As regards the case-law in concrete cases and the unity of law, I thank Mr Zoltán Kovács for what he said, but let me put it this way, if you allow me to say that the case-law, as well as the provision of the legal unit, are now in the word. That is what Mr President said, because that is exactly the point of the new system, because it is in the course of the case-law that the provision of unity of law is achieved. This is something that has, in fact, been subject to European criticism for a very long time. With regard to the duration of the precedent system, let me say that it has not been for not only 150 years, but it has not been for 800 years. The Curia is the oldest court in the European Union. It's usually the beginning of all of our answers that we have experience with. Undoubtedly, the legislative environment is changing, and the international impact is strong, linked to the European Convention on Human Rights, falling under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights, which has all set precedents. Even there, before the Strasbourg Court, continental decision-based and Anglo-Saxon precedent-based practices have been mixed, as I said, specifically since our membership of the European Union. Obviously, Mr President, you know that we are referring to European decisions by referring to a C minus some kind of lawsuit, that is to say, specific cases. So here we are, that's how we work, if we have to apply the law of the European Union, we follow it as a precedent. In fact, what happened was that the effect was so strong that we realized that it could actually work at home. If you'll allow me, Congressman, let me just say this, because it's always hard to break away from the history of law, that it's one significant difference after the change of regime that the decision-based legal unification didn't work the same way as before the war, because before the war, there was an increased respect within every institution, every profession. So the goal was not entirely in the press, in the courtroom, or in the courtroom, that one party was scolding the other party, or insulting the other party, but even the court. Where it works and we stay in our own territory with respect for professionalism, obviously, if the then Curia says that this is the right decision and it appears, then the other courts will probably be more easily adapted to this. When we hear such things on a daily basis that the judges, perhaps the vast majority of the Curia's staff, are fair, and the rest are not, I will not be able to say anything other than that there was a need for a precedent system in order to have a normative basis for not having more than one right, and that legal representatives cannot put them in a position to tell the party who asks them that they will win the lawsuit, depending on which council they are going to, that cannot be said to them. That's the whole point of all this, and that's what we're working on, the entire Curia, so that it can be felt as soon as possible. By the way, those who are constantly monitoring the decisions appearing in the Collection of Judgments of the Court can see that it is already clear which positions are now to be followed by lawyers or chamber lawyers, and that is in the interest of the parties. If I may say so, perhaps the most important part of my expo was that the justice unit is not the internal affairs of the courts. The parties must have the unity of rights, because the process that started with a chance of winning a lawsuit and ultimately led to a loss of lawsuit can be tragic because of the subject matter, but it alone costs money and personal efforts. I'm going to try to sum up what's still going on. With respect to the issue of foreign exchange lending, I ask that the Honourable Parliament please wait for the report for next year, because I cannot tell you everything in advance. This year, there was also a decision that was made in Dh.1., Dh.2. It dealt with the impact of law, it was still a classic legal unit, but it will soon appear, if all is true, a decision with the scope of the legal unit complaint procedure, which is also relevant. So these are the questions the Curia is working on, obviously under various influences. Laws change, the law is the only regular influence of the court, and the Court of Justice of the European Union, where it has jurisdiction, changes. This must somehow be passed through the Hungarian practice, and, as I said, this is the Curia's job. Why doesn't this go overnight, honourable Members? The reason he doesn't go overnight is because the Curia is in the back of the procedure. With this, let me also respond to Pp. in so far as the Mansion is more slowly ringed up, the new procedural laws arrive more slowly than the other courts, and not all questions are raised. Indeed, the Curia has attempted to bring the contested case law back a little to the point that the legislator's objective, which is to be taken into account under Article 28 of the Fundamental Law, is in line with and is likely to be the Pp. The result was a short story. And from the new building of the Curia, I can say that the planning process will take place until 31 December 2022. It's not an easy job. Otherwise, the Parliament has an influence on this, because if I am not mistaken, the Steindl Imre project and this private company, which has the development of the building itself, are connected to the Parliament. I can tell the congressman that we are very, very, very looking forward to it, too. We would very much like to celebrate the 300th birthday of the Mansion as a permanent court, as a court established in the capital, but I am afraid that it will be a little further away, which will take place in two years. As far as the siren voices related to the legal unit complaint were concerned, yes, there were siren voices, but indeed the Venice Commission, which has always tried to guide not only Hungary but Central Europe, has expressly welcomed the ECHR decisions interpreting the European Convention on Human Rights. In relation to these, I mentioned in part that no, courts are not directly required, but, sooner or later, they must be taken into account. Hungary is therefore bound by decisions in which Hungary was a party. We see these decisions and we are looking at them, but there is no doubt, and at the very end of the day, I am going to say that no international institution's authority to itself can prevail unlimitedly. I answered the question on the European Commission. The European Commission's rule of law report is available on our website. We have tried to point out factual errors, so we have also pointed out in this section that there is no European standard that would require previous judicial practice. If this were the case, the courts in Strasbourg and Luxembourg would probably not be working there. They will make a binding decision by first seeing a courtroom in Luxembourg and Strasbourg. So, there is no international requirement, so you cannot claim or object to this in relation to Hungary. As far as I know, the operation of the courts tries to comply with domestic rules. Although Congressman László Varga does not want to know how I respond to his suggestions, let him say one personal sentence. András Baka and Zs Varga. There is indeed a connection between Andrew: they both celebrated their name day the day before yesterday. Besides, I believe that all Hungarian judges are aware of independence. Finally, one important issue has been raised: this is the impact of the European Court of Justice on Hungarian court case law and legal unity. [[10.50]] Indeed, since this is mostly not about 2020 but about 2021, I made only one reference in the oral exposé. I will obviously need to discuss this in detail next year, but if the Member has asked, I will answer it. So, the conflict between the courts of the Member States and the European Union's former Court of Justice of the European Communities is old. It's half a century old, very well-known. This remained at the level of the doctrine debates for a long time, so they mostly argued in seminars and magazines. Sometimes the Court of Justice of the European Communities, sometimes the Constitutional Court or the Court of Justice of the Member States, has made a decision. If I may say so, he indicated that he had tools, but none of these instruments were really used. This period and this operation can be interpreted as the constitutional dialogue that the Hungarian Constitutional Court has raised to the rank of decision. So Hungary is the only one who says at the decision level that this debate must be conducted through constitutional dialogue. Now, what's the point of the debate? The fact that the European Courts of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Union have started using the Kompetenz-Kompetanz doctrine in a declaral or binding manner. So he started to develop his own powers for himself, which had no basis at all. To a certain extent, this was followed by all Member States. Yes, but sooner or later this was bound to meet the legal aspects of one, another or third Member State, its own values protected by law, and therefore, in response to Kompetenz-Kompetanz, the Member States developed ultravires competence for themselves, i.e. they said that they were entitled to conclude in the final case that the Court of Justice of the European Union had been declared to have exceeded its powers here. This was narrower with regard to the European Court of Human Rights. Every country has done this, and the Hungarian Constitutional Court has done so in 2016. The instrument is therefore available, but all countries have abstained from using it for a very long time. And then, a year ago and in 2020, the situation is just not for Hungary, because the German Constitutional Court, in the so-called PSPP case, said for the first time that one of the European Union's courts was ultra-viral; that the court exceeded its jurisdiction, Germany does not care about it. The reaction was not delayed: the European Commission has obviously initiated infringement proceedings against Germany. And then this autumn, this continued with regard to Poland. Poland, the Polish Constitutional Court, said first in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and now quite recently in the case of the European Court of Human Rights, that it should use the ultravires instrument. Now, in this line, the most recent is the Court of Justice of the European Union C-564/19. Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European With regard to a decree of the Curia, in the operative part, the court stated that the lower court was obliged to ignore the decision of the Curia. I repeat this: the Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled that a Hungarian court is obliged to ignore the decision of the Curia. And he did so by actually finding the interpretation of the Curia's order to be correct. I don't have time to tell you, but they're both based on CILFIT, by the way. Now the public reaction to this was to study it, in the light of the interpretation of the Constitutional Court of the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Law. More than that, Congressman, I can't say right now. Let me just add that it also shows that the situation is serious, or at least it seems serious. It seems serious, because, as I pointed out in the report, the Court of Justice of the European Union is not a forum for redress for the Hungarian courts. The Curia does. The Constitutional Court, yes. So, the conflict in the courts has begun, and the question must inevitably be asked, even if I am not going to answer that today, how long will we be able to avoid using ultravires against Kompetenz. Like when will the Mansion be able to dodge? And the stakes for which this belongs are the unity of the interpretation of the law, because again, for the third time today, I say that it is not an internal court, not the Curia that bears the risk of such a judgment, but the parties. The Curia has a responsibility. Why? It's about how you respond to a situation like this. He takes responsibility even if he responds to it, but there will be consequences if the Curia does not respond. So, Honourable Parliament, we are facing a difficult time, but the assessment of this is not for the report for the year 2020. So please allow me to thank the Curia for all that the Members have said, but all of its judges, all of its judges, President Péter Darák, and for the support in my own name, and to ask the Honourable Parliament to do so in the decision. Thank you for your attention. Have a nice day. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-02-20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Mr Imre Vejkey that he wishes to reflect on the position of President of the Judicial Committee. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey nodds.]] As chairman of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-12-02-21	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Zs Varga. The absolute professional answers to the question raised in today's general debate by President András, who clearly demonstrate to the honourable students who are now watching this debate, that yes, the Curia is independent, yes, the Curia is free of politics, yes, the Curia is based on the rule of law. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your fight in this regard against the European Union and the European Parliament. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And I pushed for a two-minute argument by my fellow opposition Members, and so that I could say it again comprehensively, because the two minutes were over, and I was forced to interrupt what I had to say. So it was said that our fellow Member, László Varga MSZP and Zoltán Varga, raised that what the European Parliament, the report on the rule of law, or even Didier Reynders, the Commissioner for Equal Opportunities, together with the LIBE Committee, suggested that Zs Varga was legitimate. András, the election of the President of the Curia or not. I can and can say that it is legitimate in every way. On the one hand, attacks have come from claiming that the Constitutional Judge is not a judge. This is simply not true, as I said, the Constitutional Judge is also a judge, and on the other hand, the Constitutional Court has been a judge for almost a decade, and therefore the Constitutional Court itself is actually a judge, so a constitutional judge is definitely a judge. The following point was then raised as to how OBT took a position on the candidate for President of the Curia and OBT took a negative position. But like I said, the OBT would have specifically given the authority of law only in terms of the ability of the person. Varga Zs. András's identity clearly meets the eligibility criteria, but OBT itself did not object to this, but in fact challenged the legal matter in force, essentially expressed its position against the law in force, and, feeling quasi-constitutional in opposition to the law in force, took a decision, a negative decision by Zs. Varga. With regard to Andrew. [[11.00]] So it can also be said here that when OBT made this decision, it exceeded its authority. The second question is: how, despite the OBT decision, Parliament could still choose the President of the Curia, Zs Varga. Mr. Andras. Ladies and gentlemen, you have chosen not only to present an OBT report to this House, but also to be heard by the Justice Committee itself, and the Justice Committee, taking into account its powers, has only looked at whether the candidate is suitable or not, and the Justice Committee has found the candidate fit. The Parliament then had to decide by a qualified majority, i.e. by a two-thirds majority, to elect Zs. Varga. Mr. Andras is the President of the Curia or not. And that's how it happened. What I can say about these siren sounds, or, if I put it specifically, open political attacks on the part of the European Parliament against the independent Hungarian court, is that these are vile attacks, unfair attacks, and we reject them for the sake of the Hungarian rule of law. Please refrain from doing so in the future. I would like to thank you for the fact that, on the basis of what the lead speakers have said, basically all keynote speakers supported the President of the Curia's report on the year 2020 and the proposal for a decision of the Justice Committee in this regard. Please support it during the votes as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-02-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and I also welcome Zs Varga. Andrew, the President of the Curia. I thank him for his presence. Mr President will, of course, also have the opportunity to hear the next items on the agenda if his duties allow it. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, The General Discussion of the President of the National Court Office for the year 2020 and the Proposal for a Decision on its adoption will follow. Report submitted by the National Court Office B/17332. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee is H/17600. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr. György Barna Seneyei, President of the National Court of Justice, the author of the report, who tells his report from this platform. We'll wait for Mr. President to raise himself to the stand. Thank you very much. I'd like some water for the president. Mr President, your timeframe is 30 minutes. You have the floor, please.
u2021-12-02-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I respectfully welcome the attendees. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In short, I'll try to sum up my report. The National Assembly elected me President of the National Court Office on 10 December 2019 and, consequently, in a few days' time, I have been serving as President of the National Court of Justice for two years. We are dealing with the interesting phenomenon, known to all of you, that I have been reporting on the general situation of the courts and the administrative activities of the courts for the third time, but for the first time in the period covered by the report, I have had a direct role in the central administration of the courts. We all know that 2020 was an epidemic period, which obviously also had a direct impact on the functioning of the courts. In all respects, there has been a special period in the life of the courts, as there has been emphasis in court proceedings on the use of digital contacts, the application of the hearing system, non-negotiation cases, the use of other simplified procedural solutions rather than negotiation, as well as the possibility of remote work. In 2020, central administration also had to adapt to these changed circumstances, and therefore the epidemiological situation has set priorities in the areas of administration of courts, regulation, provision of material conditions, training and IT developments. But this was not only in the lives of the courts, but, as is perfectly known to all of us, unfortunately, we have been struggling with this phenomenon all over the world, and I'm afraid we will be fighting this for a while. Of course, extraordinary legislation has also affected the rules of court proceedings. The courts operated according to a complex system of enforcement: from March 2020, during the exceptional period of judgment, and during the emergency, under the Government Decree on certain procedural measures, after which, according to the Act on transitional rules and epidemiological preparedness, and then again under the relevant emergency rules. However, one issue needs to be pointed out, not in front of you, of course, but it is necessary in the report. You know perfectly well that the exceptional period of judgment ordered in March 2020 was not a judicial pause in the literal sense of the word, but was limited to public negotiations, since the aim was to minimise the personal contact, precisely so that the courts could continue to function and function, and as the figures show, the courts worked. We must remove it from this period, because it is essential that the epidemic has also affected the administration of the courts. Even so, the main flow indicators have improved, so the timeliness and validity indicators, which I will mention in detail later on. During the pandemic, the necessary IT procurement and application developments were carried out to support out-of-court work, and the courts' budget ensured that the necessary equipment for the control of the epidemic was acquired. The use of electronic administration services by customers has increased compared to previous years, including the use of the litigation calculator, e- Complaints, the use of the judicial electronic information and warning system. The use of the remote hearing system has tripled in 2020 compared to the pre-emergency period. The figures were 6426 in 2019 and 20 569 in 2020. Of course, the training of judges and judicial staff did not stop in 2020 and could not stop, but it was transferred to the online space. The training IT system has been developed for this and, of course, continues. I have always attached a key role to cooperation in central administration, and I have tried to enforce this not only within the judicial organisation but also with regard to bodies and organisations outside it in the last year. The cooperation was also required by the epidemic situation, so an excellent professional relationship was established, among other things, with the High Prosecutor's Office and the National Command of the Institute of Corrections. I also consider it important to enforce cooperation with judicial representation bodies, including the Hungarian Judicial Association and the Judicial Workers' Union, as well as the National Judicial Council for the supervision of central administration. In the second half of 2020, as soon as the pandemic situation made it possible, in the second half of 2020, the choice of alternate members and the number of councils were added. [[11.10]] In some of the most important areas of judicial administration, let me also say a few words about turnover, human resources, material conditions, farming, electronic procedures and training. Sentencing, closing a case, backlog. In essence, this is perhaps the most important point, since the search for rights is directly affected by the arrival of a case, the conclusion of a case and the backlog, in Hungarian, when a search party can obtain a legitimate decision. The national arrival in 2020: 1 163 283 cases came to the courts, 0.3 percent less than the arrival in 2019, which was 1 166 220 cases. I'll admit, I was expecting the pandemic to reduce the arrival of the case better. This did not happen; the change was 0.3 percent. The change: compared to the previous period, it is the change of powers due to the termination of administrative and labour courts that deserves to be mentioned. This occurred in the half of 2020, so it can be explained that the number of cases arrived in the first instance increased by 3.8 percent, while the number of cases in the Curia increased by 3.9 percent. On the completions of the 2020 case-case-by-case. In 2020, 1 145 217 cases were completed in the courts, which is 3.9 percent less than in the previous year. The number of completions exceeded the number of cases in the second degree of forensics, the judging boards and the Mansion. As regards the completions, there is a nominal decline each year in parallel with the fall in the case-martial, but in 2020 the impact of the epidemic on the case-law and the exceptional measures taken during the pandemic period also played a role. In the context of the national backlog: at the end of 2020 there were 8.7 percent more cases at national level than at the end of 2019. This development has been influenced by the special procedural rules in the event of an emergency, the necessity of which is beyond doubt, and the change of powers in administrative and labour matters. About the backlog, in short, there is no change in the central region compared to previous years. The courts in the central region of the country, the Metropolitan Court of Justice, the Metropolitan Court and the Budapest Surrounding Court are the most overwhelmed, since the number of cases arriving here represents 40% of the national arrival, which in 2020 represented 450 888 cases. Timing is always a central issue. High-quality and timely judgment is the main task of the courts, which was also a priority objective in 2020. The main aim was to improve timeliness and reduce the number of prolonged cases. The vast majority of the lawsuits on the courts and judging boards, 86 percent of them, were completed within one year of arriving at the relevant level of judgment, and six months on the judging boards. In the second half of 2020 a specific action plan was drawn up to reduce the length of litigation cases, which also had an impact on the reduction of the average trial duration of cases. The length of litigation, i.e. over two years in the first degree, over one year in the second forensics, the number of litigation cases in progress over six months has decreased by 16.2 percent compared to the previous year, from 7544 to 6324. The proportion of prolonged cases has decreased compared to all pending cases at all jurisdictional levels, with the exception of forensic second-degree cases. For cases over five years, the number of cases over five years has decreased by 14.6% compared to the end of 2019, from 864 cases to 738 cases. In 2018, this figure was 1001. The legitimacy, the court judgments among the legal forces. Let's start with the foundation, if you don't mind. It is an indication of the social acceptance of court judgments if as few cases as possible are brought to justice, i.e. as many cases as possible are raised at first instance. The vast majority of the judgments are born at district court level in civilist cases. This was 47.1 percent of the lawsuit endings in 2020. The increase in legal force due to the lack of redress increased from 92.8 per cent in 2020 to 93.9 per cent in 2019. The repeal rate. This indicator shows the rate of repeal within the second instance decisions ordering the new procedure to be carried out. The repeal rate improved in 2020 compared to the previous year, from 2.7 per cent last year to 2.4 per cent in the criminal case, and from 9.5 per cent in the civilist case to 8.5 per cent in the criminal case. The unity of law and the quality of judgment. The Constitutional Court received 25 individual constitutional control judicial initiatives in the year 2020 and 44 court cases referred to the application of unlawful law in the context of the constitutional complaint. A total of 419 cases were attacked before the Constitutional Court and 25 decisions were annulled. A few thoughts on the activities of the effectiveness of the case-law. Ten Cabinets were set up in 2020 to carry out ad hoc and permanent tasks: ad hoc advisory cabinet, judicial conflict of interest and exclusion rules, cabinet investigating the rules for the evaluation of judicial work, administrative and labour affairs, emergency cabinet, emergency civilian, economic and labour cabinet, emergency penitentiary cabin, emergency administrative cabinet, child rights cabinet and emergency cabinet. I think the names show that the emergency, the pandemic situation, and the pursuit of this and the search for solutions were also important here in the setting up of the cabins, partly in the day-to-day administration and partly in the professional work. It's about the tests. In 2020, general investigations were carried out, a national target study of cases beyond five years of age, and an investigation into the administrative activities of four court leaders under the mandate of the President of the OBH. Human resources. At the end of the year 2020, 11,648 people actually worked in the judiciary, of which 2829 judges, 938 court secretaries, 239 judges and 7642 law employees. I'm talking about terminations of duty. In the year 2020 117 of our fellow judges ceased to be in service, of which 41 were retired, 53 were subject to the maximum age, 15 were resigned, 6 were dead, 1 was absent from the application for an indefinite appointment, 1 was dismissed for a final disciplinary penalty. Proposals and appointments were also made, regardless of the pandemic situation. 39 applications for judges were evaluated and 184 applications were received. As a result of the tendering procedure, I submitted a proposal for the appointment of 20 judges to the President of the Republic, in 15 cases I decided to transfer the already appointed judge to another place of service and in 4 cases the tender was declared ineffective. These are because, on the one hand, changes in the organisation of work, the workload or the budget following the opening of the application made the filling of the post from an administrative point of view unjustified in 3 cases and, on the other hand, after the opening of the application, a circumstance arose which required the place of employment to be filled without the application under the law. In the case of 34 applications, I took the decision according to the ranking of the Judges, as I agreed that the first-ranking candidate should fill the post. In one case, I wished to deviate from the established ranking, and in this round I presented a motion to the National Judicial Council. In the decision of the National Judicial Council, this motion was supported as such by a derogation from the ranking. [[11.20]] Appointment of court leaders. At the end of 2020, 796 court leaders were in the judicial system. The President of the OBH shall have the power of appointment of 122 of them. In 2020, 53 of my appointments were subject to a tendering procedure. Allow me to make one personal comment: 53 out of 122, and all this falls into the period of the pandemic. The consequences of this were obviously felt by the courts and fellow judges, since all-judge meetings had to be convened and, at all times, during the convening of all-judge meetings, we had to keep an eye on the pandemic situation. Where appropriate, it was not possible to deliver an opinion until a few weeks or months after the submission of the tender. However, all-judge meetings took place, with 9 posts in 2019 and 44 posts in 2020 before the end of the appointment period. Out of the 53 proposals evaluated in 2020, 35 were appointed, 18 were declared unsuccessful, of which 8 were declared unsuccessful in the absence of a tender, 5 were not supported by a majority of the opinion bodies, and 5 were for other reasons accompanied by detailed written justifications. In all cases, the appointments were made in line with the proposals and proposals of the arbitration panel. The management of the court organisation. The management of the court organisation was stable in 2020. From a budgetary point of view, the courts closed the year 2020 successfully, their management was balanced throughout the year, there was no liquidity problem, the budget provided by the Finance Act increased to HUF 129 billion during the year. As in previous years, 65 percent of the expenditure budget was provided by personal allowances, amounting to HUF 88.25 billion. The Court's salary reform also affected the year 2020. It is of particular importance that the first stage of salary adjustment has been completed from 1 January 2020, with an average increase of 32 per cent in the multipliers for the judicial grades, in the terms of title and title, and in the level of executive allowances. In the second half of 2020, the second stage of judicial salary settlement was also achieved by the adoption of the budget law of 2021 and the 12 percent increase in the judicial salary base. About the high-profile purchases. During the pandemic period, protection of the health of clients, judges and judicial staff was a priority, with more than one billion forints spent by the court organisation in 2020 on the control of the epidemic. In addition to the purchase of the protection equipment, the coverage of the plexiphals was insured, amounting to HUF 107.3 million. Obviously, all of you know, but I mention that plexiphals are necessary in the courtroom, during the hearings and negotiations involving personal presence, it is justified that judges or legal representatives, prosecutors, and therefore at all the parties to the trial are separated from each other. Obviously, the reason for this is health. I also believe that if we reach a level of health protection, there is no reason, even after the pandemic situation has ended, that, where appropriate, these plexiphs, which protect against other infections, should not remain in the courtrooms and continue to protect the health of the law-seeking audience and the participants in the procedure. In order to create the possibility of working at home, the institutions acquired 561 laptops and the OBH provided an additional 1041 laptops for the institutions. It is not directly related to the pandemic, but central administration also attached importance to further health protection. Accordingly, a defibrillator device was placed in the buildings of the court organisation. The insurance was HUF 102.9 million. Real estate to ensure the functioning of the court organisation. At the end of 2020, there were 185 buildings in 113 cities with a net surface area of 462 220 sq m for the administration of the court organisation, of which 154 buildings actually served the purposes of the case-law. In 2020, the Kuria project is the development of the Kossuth Palace of Justice, the headquarters of the Budapest Surroundings Tribunal, and the energy development of the Baja and Komló District Courts within the framework of the KEHOP project, and as part of the third phase, the development of the following buildings and the preparation of the planning documents are under way: Nyíregyházi Tribunal, Egri District Court, Gyula Tribunal and District Court, Ozd District Court. Priority works and investments have also been carried out and are ongoing. In 2020, the training centre of Balatonszemes, the new building of the Érd District Court and the Érd District Public Prosecutor's Office, the transformation of the C wing of the Hungarian Judicial Academy, the Ráckeve District Court, the Gödöllő District Court, the Balatonfüred Legislative Place and the Csorna District Court. The importance of IT has been fully appreciated in recent years. The aim of IT is to create a more efficient, faster process and conditions for simplifying procedures for both customers and court workers; its importance, like plexiphals, I believe, remains. The results that we have achieved in this area should continue to be maintained precisely because of a more efficient, faster process and simplification of procedures. In 2020, 962 workstations were replaced, 34 new servers were added, 16 500 viral protection licences were renewed. Among the application developments carried out in 2020, the development of the system supporting the case-law became available through the address and address register of the Central Government Service Bus. The file-digitalisation system is a successful connection to support the digitisation processes of paper documents and to the e-mail service, which was of particular importance. In the area of integrity, lawsuits are brought against the courts. In 2020, 386 lawsuits were brought against the courts. At the end of the year, a total of 398 cases were pending against the courts. The most common types of cases brought against the courts: 282 damages lawsuits, 37 labour lawsuits, 15 lawsuits for issuing public information. In addition to OBH's representative activities, eight out of 114 cases which were finally closed were brought before the courts, i.e. 93 percent of the actions were considered unfounded. A total of HUF 12 312 119 was ordered to pay the defendant courts in the lawsuits closed during the reporting period. Disciplinary situation of judges in 2020. 15 judges received written warnings. The practitioner of the employer's powers has initiated disciplinary proceedings against 20 judges in 21 cases, in 10 cases because of failure to fulfil obligations in respect of the service relationship, in 5 cases because of conduct which violates the authority of the judicial profession, in 6 cases because of conduct which violates the authority of the judicial profession and of conduct which also carries out failure to fulfil obligations in relation to the service relationship. 5 judges have been suspended by the President of the Republic, in 4 cases for the prosecution of criminal proceedings and in 1 for the conduct of infringement proceedings. 11 judges were prosecuted for violation of all road traffic rules. Access to courts, electronic procedures, electronic administration, electronic communications. In 2020, 1 842 820 electronic submissions were sent to the courts, of which 592 401 of these submissions were received in civilist trials, and further submissions were divided between cases and types of cases. [[11.30]] As a list of electronic administration services: e- Complaints, Per-Sustainability Calculator, Court Electronic Information and Warning System, Customer Information Access System, Electronic Payments System; and one data: A total of 22 789 successful transactions took place through the OBH's independent court payment portal in the period under consideration, amounting to HUF 1 422 768 489. I have already mentioned the distance hearing that 20 569 distance hearings were held by the courts in 2020. Demolition: In 2020, 16 197 defendants, 1851 persons subject to infringement proceedings and 1138 witnesses were heard by the courts, in addition to several expert defendants and plaintiffs. During the central training courses in 2020, 223 participants attended 8557 events, of which 147 central training courses were carried out with 6365 participants. About job applications for authors: 28 job vacancies were issued in the first half of 2020 and 46 applications were received, 26 of the 34 successful applicants were appointed to the court. In the second half of 2020, 25 job vacancies were issued and 82 applications were received, out of 66 successful main applicants 25 were appointed to the court. The operation of the National Court Office: when I took office, I set the objective of rationalising the operation and the situation of the OBH, and also of reducing the number of judges assigned to it. In the year 2020, I reviewed the OBH's operational mechanisms with the involvement of the Deputy Chairs for Direct Monitoring of Divisions, and a number of organisational changes were made in order to rationalise, simplify work processes and increase the efficiency of the organisation. In this context, the project office ended on 25 July 2020 and the communication and communication department ceased on 25 July 2020 and its tasks will be further carried out by the newly created press department and the event management department, which will be placed under the President's Cabinet. By merging the IT department and the Department of Electronic Procedures, the IT and electronic administration department was established from 1 September 2020, which is independent of the tasks of the ceased departments. As a result of the organizational changes, 10 departments, instead of the former 13 departments or departments of the OBH, perform the tasks required by the cardinal law. In 2020 the following data are reviewed and streamlined by the OBH, let me share them with you. On the 31st of December 2019 329 people worked in the office, which was 301 on the 30th of June 2020 and by the end of 2020 the number fell to 283 and by the end of 2020 the actual number of judges was reduced from 48 to 40. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Just a minute. Cooperation with the National Judicial Council: OBT supervises the central administration of the courts under the rules of the Fundamental Law. The current three-party model of the administration of the courts was set up on 1 January 2012: the Curia is responsible for the unity of the case-law, the harmonisation of law, and the central administration of the courts is the responsibility of the President of the OBH, while the OBT supervises the latter's activities. In the year 2020, the OBT alternate members were selected, the Bsi. 104. Pursuant to paragraph 1 of the Act, the technical conditions for the operation of OBT are provided by the OBH, in accordance with the provisions laid down in the cardinal law, OBT has been placed at the seat of the OBT and the work of the Board is assisted by an administrative staff member. The members of the OBT shall be insured according to the needs of the IT and technical means necessary for the performance of their duties, and the chosen members of the OBT shall receive a negotiating discount. The OBT meetings shall be held by the OBH according to the Council's needs. The OBT decisions will also be published in the Court of Justice Gazette as President of the OBH in order to ensure the broadest possible publicity. The number of proposals for OBT in 2020 for regulators 23, number of human resources proposals 29, number of proposals for management 5 and number of proposals for training 1. The proportion of OBT's support for the 58 OBH referral sent is 65 percent. In the year 2020 the NÉST met twice, this Jury Career Expert Board, to which the members of the OBT will be invited, discussed with the president of the OBH, the President of the Curia and representatives of the representative organisations, including certain issues of benefits over pay. My apologies for the delay, thank you for the opportunity. Thank you for listening, and I look forward to any questions. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-02-24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur for the motion for a decision, within a 30-minute time frame. Mr President will also speak from here, from the platform. We're gonna wait for him to wake up. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-12-02-25	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I also welcome here, at the plenary session of the Parliament, Mr. György Seneyei, President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the National Court of Justice. The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 76. Pursuant to paragraph 8 (c), the President of the OBH submitted to the National Assembly the B/17332 on the activities of the National Court of Justice in 2020. The Court of Justice of the European Union, acting on behalf of the President of the European Union and acting on behalf of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and acting on behalf of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union and acting on behalf of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union, shall adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, Under the authority of the Fundamental Law, the President of the National Court of Justice shall perform the tasks of the central administration of the courts. Like all people, businesses and institutions, the functioning of the courts has been fundamentally disrupted by the coronal virus epidemic. It was necessary to ensure the proper and smooth functioning of the courts within a short period of time in order to complete the tasks set out in the Fundamental Law, while protecting the health of the judges, judicial staff and law-seeking citizens involved. The Judicial Committee heard a detailed report on OBH's activities in 2020, in which it acknowledged the actions taken by the Presidents of the OBH, thus allowing the courts to carry out their duties without delay despite the epidemiological situation. This is shown by the fact that the number of pending cases has decreased at almost all level of the case, in particular in cases with a prolonged trial duration, with a decrease of more than 16 per cent compared to 2019. It is also to be recognised that the number of cases completed exceeded the number of cases received by nearly 4 percent more cases at some levels in 2020 than in the previous year. [[11.40]] The Committee welcomed the fact that the courts were able to broaden the forms of digital contact and electronic administration in the epidemiological situation, and welcomed the additional scope for the application of the litigation calculator, e- Complaints and the electronic judicial warning system. The pandemic has accelerated the process of using the remote hearing system in more than three times more cases than in 2019. It is also worth noting the development of the case support system, which has made personal and address records available to courts, the file digitalisation system, access to e-mail services. The Committee supported the steps taken by the President of the OBH to increase the possibilities for judges and judicial staff to work in distance work and to create the conditions for the electronic implementation of professional training. The Committee took a position on the basis of detailed and supplementary information from the President to thank Mr President for his work. The Committee was also informed in detail and complementary to the results of the discussions with the judicial councils and the National Judicial Council on court posts and court management applications. The Committee considers the results of the judicial salary reform to be important and supports its entire process. The Committee considered it particularly important to implement timely and high-quality case-law at all Court levels, further efforts towards transparency, predictability and control of case- and administrative work. The members of the committee asked questions about the appointment of judges, cooperation between OBH and OBT, the training of judges, the division of cases between case levels, the extension of the possibility of the digital court and international training. On the basis of what was said in the debate, the Committee concluded that the technical objectives of the OBH for 2020 had been fully achieved. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, at the meeting of the Judicial Committee on 17 November 2021, B/17332. He unanimously adopted the report of the President of the National Court of Justice in 2020 by 11 votes in favour. The Judicial Committee shall have the floor of the House Rule 84. H/17600 submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Act. In its proposal for a resolution, the president of the OBH recommends the report to this House for adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] H/17600. In its proposal for a resolution, the president of the OBH recommends the report to this House for adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2021-12-02-26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would now like to ask Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak on behalf of the Government. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State says he doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Zoltán Kovács, our fellow Member. He also spoke about the platform. We'll wait for them to wake him up. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-02-27	Thank you. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear President, György Seneyei, I would like to begin by saying that those who are not Members of Parliament, but who are monitoring the work of the Parliament, would like to show what a detailed, meaningful and graphical report we have received, which has really made our work easier, making it transparent. [[He's showing me the document.]] So thank you very much, Mr. President and his colleagues. As a result, since Mr President has also spoken extremely in detail about the report that we have received in writing, I promise not to go beyond the time frame, I will only draw the attention of honourable Members to a few points of focus. We all know that this is a compulsory report, and the law requires that this task be carried out both for the President and for the Members of Parliament. The President of the OBH shall perform the central tasks of the administration of the courts. This is a set of administrative activities which are not closely related to the performance of the judicial functions of the courts and judges, but primarily provide the courts with the personal and material conditions. The report before us and which I have already presented, as I have said, is thorough and covers all the relevant issues, and the Judicial Committee has put forward its proposal for its adoption. This report provides sufficient information on the effective work done by officials and seconded judges in 2020, but, of course, the entire court organisation, because these graphs and figures, behind them, are powerful and outstanding human performances, especially with the biggest challenge in the operation of the court organisation in 2020, and yet it can be said that the operation was in fact undisturbed. Ladies and gentlemen, What is important for citizens in a lawsuit case? Obviously, in order to give him a favourable judgment and to bring the procedure to a professional level, one of the important issues is always to get the cases resolved as soon as possible. That's what the statistics are measuring, as you can see, and I'd like to give you some information about that. It has been said in several cases, although the number of cases received was slightly lower, there was no reduction in the case due to the pandemic. So you can say, if you say the number, that there are over 1 million 100,000 cases in progress. That means we're not quoted as a clumsy nation. Ladies and Gentlemen, The reduction was significant in the case of substantive corporate affairs and court enforcement cases, while the increased increase concerned district court infringement cases and bv alias enforcement cases. From 1 April 2020, all administrative and labour matters will first come to a forensic level, and administrative matters will be judged by the Curia in the second instance. This explains why the number of cases arrived in the first instance increased by 3.8 percent, while the number of cases in the Curia increased by 0.1 percent. At the end of 2020 there were 8.7 percent more cases at national level than at the end of 2019. Citizens seeking rights are less affected by the number of cases brought to the Curia, because, as we have seen and heard in the previous report, the number of cases pending has decreased by 49 percent compared to the number of citizens seeking rights, but almost half of the number of cases in the Curia. High-quality and swift judgment is of particular importance to the courts, as I have already said, and therefore it was one of the most important objectives in 2020 as well, while keeping the results achieved over the past years, the number of cases with a longer duration of litigation is reduced. [[11.50]] I remember when I was a lawyer, we had a classic case that we talked about a lot, which we had three of us carrying for 12 years. The first lawyer was arrested, the second unfortunately died, and I finished the case in the 12th year. Let us hope that this can no longer happen, which, say, occurred in the mid-eighties and nineties, since everything is available for cases, although cases have become more complicated. In particular, economic matters have become more complicated, and criminal matters have become much more complicated, not only because it is more difficult to detect, but in the world of proceedings, white-collar criminals carry out the task much more sophisticatedly, so it is much more difficult to judge in this respect. The vast majority of lawsuits on court and judge boards, 86 percent of cases, are completed within the year. I remember this is always one of the most important statistical indicators of how many cases over a year there are. This is a great indicator if 86 percent of the case level has been completed within a year. A significant reduction in the number of prolonged cases has also had an impact on the positive development of the number of cases over five years. Compared to the end of 2019, the number of cases over five years has decreased by almost 15 percent. So this all shows that the effectiveness of the case-law, obviously the provision of the asset system, is showing a significant improvement, but we cannot go beyond the fact that the pandemic has been a significant contributor to the operation of the organisation, and yet it has been undisturbed. During the period of emergency and epidemiological preparedness, measures to protect the health of judicial staff and those involved in judicial proceedings were introduced. Professional and administrative guidelines have helped to organise work and special rules have been interpreted in a uniform way across the country. The IT situation is essential in the field of operation, and here a good test world was the time of the pandemic, when the IT system could be put to great challenges, and this met these new challenges, and for the future, when there will be no pandemic, these IT innovations can be used in some cases in the distribution of electronic procedural forms, the possibility of administration, in the case of a faster process, in the case of simplification. In 2020, as reported, IT assets increased and increased, and the network itself was further developed. As of March of last year, a safer, faster, more stable system was introduced to support work at home and to ensure more connections at the same time. The reform of the system provided the possibility of full and safe home work for the staff of the court organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the President, alternates and staff of the National Court of Justice have effectively carried out their duties under the Fundamental Law and the Law on Court Organisations and Administration, as well as in other legal acts. In view of the progress made in the report and the results in practice, I would like to thank the President and colleagues of the OBH for the preparation and effectiveness of the legislative tasks in 2020. In this regard, I would ask the honourable Members to accept the report, like the Judicial Committee, and to support the proposal for a resolution. I wish the President of the Office and his staff further good work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-02-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the application of any illustration is subject to prior authorisation by the President of the House, so I respectfully ask that you ask for permission to do so, even if you use an illustration in a positive sense. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre, who will give his speech in place. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-02-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Mr President, it is not the first time he has come to report, but this is the first year on his own presidential activities and on the then OBH activity. Mr President, I think that at the most beautiful time, I will say the most beautiful in a quotation mark, because perhaps he became President at the most difficult time when the Hungarian court system was set up to face completely new challenges. The pandemic has certainly brought things in Hungary not only in terms of judgment, but also in all other areas where the responsibility of the leaders was much higher, the number of tasks increased and much more difficult. I really want to thank you, the OBH, and all the staff of the court, for getting through this difficult situation so well, and being able to handle it so well. Obviously, you, you and the court leaders have had a number of new tasks, so this pandemic has really put you up to all new challenges: more emphasis on writing in procedures, more emphasis on digital contact, more emphasis on the system of remote listening than it has shown in the report, three times the number of remote listenings, but also on teleworking, the possibility of working at home, and many times the obligation to do the job from there. Obviously, for this work at home, the material conditions had to be ensured, which, I think, was a very big challenge. But not only is it the establishment of distance work, the material conditions for home work, but also the provision of material conditions at court level, because, as Mr President said, the establishment of the plexi wall, the organisation of disinfection at local level, it was all a task that I know, as I have seen it, was a very good solution to this. Then, obviously, the regulations also need to be changed to meet public health conditions, and obviously a very important topic is the training of judges, which was also a new task, the transition to online training, which was also a new thing in the system. What I was surprised at, as Mr President has said here, is the number of cases. Obviously, we all thought that the cases would fall considerably, compared with the pandemic, that such a change really was not, because there was only a 0.3 percent reduction in the file during this period, and I think that it is very surprising, I tell you honestly, I expected at least 10 percent reduction in the file on my part. What is most important, and we always talk about in the hearing, is the timeliness and legitimacy, and Mr President has also talked about this in detail, the number of cases over two years. I was very pleased when we listened to Mr President at the level of the Commission at the time of his application, in the Committee on Justice, and at the time he explained that you were not a believer in ending matters at all costs within two years, but that we should finish matters as soon as possible, and that, if there is a need for justification to be taken into account in the first place. I was pleased with this change of attitude, because over the past years, I felt that numericalism and statistics may have become more important than well-founded. I think that both things are very important in assessing the work of a court, both timely and well-founded, but I think that within the two, the merits are more important than a hundred percent of the cases being completed within a year, but that would not be reassuring to the parties, and I do not think that it would be good. [[12.00]] This is obviously where the statistics come in, how many cases have been appealed, how much is the number of repeals, obviously these are important data. Mr President mentioned that the end was 3.9 percent less in 2020 than before. This can obviously be explained by the pandemic situation, by its problems, but also by one thing, mentioned here by my fellow Member Zoltán Kovács: the cases have become much more difficult, so I am told by my reputable acquaintances that there is a much, much more difficult legal view of the cases today than a few years ago, and obviously this is part of the fact that there are fewer cases that will be brought to an end. It is very welcome that the number of cases over two years has decreased by 16.2 percent. In any case, it seems to me that, compared to Mr President's opinion, the number of cases beyond two years has been further reduced this year, as has the number of cases beyond five years. That's 14.6 percent, and I'm glad you don't have to report cases that are over ten years old, as we've just heard about them, that were in the past. Yes, Mr President also spoke about the social acceptance of judgments. Obviously, the most important thing is that judgments are considered to be good. The best indicator of this is how many percent are appealed or not appealed, because this is more important that they do not appeal. It is good that the acceptance rate continued to increase, since in 2019 it was 92.8 percent, and this increased to 93.9 percent. I am glad that we are not there, as in the next report, which will follow after Mr President, because the Attorney General always reports that 99,6 percent of the indictment has increased further and will grow longer every year; I do not know, and then we will keep you at 110 percent indictment in the prosecutor's report. It's even more acceptable here. In any case, I didn't say this prosecutorial example with negative intentions, but it's definitely good. Obviously, then, a customer is pleased here in the first place, as said earlier, for example, by Zs Varga. Also in Andrew's report, the court is for the client and not the client for the court, and obviously one of the two parties will be unsuccessful, and obviously this is the most important, if the unsuccessful party comes out of the court rested, can accept the legal arguments, can accept the reasons, professional judgement, possibly the expert's opinion; this will give the basis, and this will also give social acceptance. I think that this indicator we are getting here is certainly very good, even if I note only in very parentheses the fact that I have experienced very many times as a practicing lawyer that the losing party has not appealed against the judgment at first instance because the litigation costs, the appeal fee and the others have deterred him from still experimenting. So obviously, in this indicator, there is a percentage of this, but in any case, social acceptance is the most important. The rate of repeal was reduced. I have also added in the trend here, for example, in criminal matters because Mr President mentioned that in 2019 there was 2.7 percent repeals in criminal matters, and this fell to 2.4 percent, and I also drew up the 2018 data, which was 3.8 percent, so there is a continuous trend in the reduction of the repeal rates, but also in the civilist case, where there is a higher number of appeals than in criminal proceedings, where it decreased from 9.5 percent to 8.5 percent. I think it is a very serious ratio, because if you look at the two separately, then the number of cases repealed has fallen in a very serious percentage. Mr President also spoke about the termination of the judges' relationship. In this regard, I asked the President of the Judicial Committee why there were many more judges who had ceased their relationship than they had been appointed in 2020. As you have said, Mr President, 117 judges have ceased their relationship and 39 appeals have been filed, but only 20 judges have been appointed. Well, if I count it well and there are no judges missing here in this number sea, which, by the way, is in the report, then that's 90-some of the judges' posts, which are practically eliminated. Mr President, he replied to my question at the committee meeting by saying that this was necessary because it had to be reduced in the context of rational staff management, i.e. due to a reduction in the number of case files. In connection with this, there were opinions in courts, here and there, I heard opinions in the country that they feel that they often do not have sufficient grounds for abolishing a status, and the abolition or removal of this status also means that those who take over these cases in a small court, where appropriate, would have a very large increase in their burden, and they did not always see, where appropriate, that withdrawal in their territory would be justified. In this regard, I have heard criticisms on a number of points. I have calculated: if 117 judges have ceased their relationship, 20 judges have been appointed, then ninety-some judges have been eliminated, which is 3 percent of the entire judiciary, and this represents a 10 times the rate compared to a reduction of 3 thousand. Obviously, Mr President has much more insight into what is needed, or the number of staff needed in the perspectives, or where there is still a decrease in the number of employees, but the scissors are a little wide in the tenfold gap, with a reduction of 3 thousand cases and a reduction of 3 percent. In addition, I have the idea that the 3 000-dollar drop in the case file is obviously also a suggestion that I think every year has been under pressure, that their legal judgment is being weighed down, so the burden of the judges is obviously increasing as well. So I'm not sure that the reduction in the file is proportional to the reduction in the burden of judges, which could also be an important thing. During the Hando Tünde era, one of the most neural points was the appointment of court leaders. I am very pleased about what Mr President has just said; not that he has had to decide on 53 leaders, but that is obviously a very large proportion, since almost half of the posts had to be decided, but that he said here, in practice, that these decisions were taken on the same terms as the opinion board. This was precisely the problem in the previous period, that despite a good application, despite the proposal of the opinion panel, they were not appointed on the basis of a completely subjective decision, or otherwise appointed, or temporarily assigned to another position. So there have been a lot of problems, and I am glad that it seems that this problem has been completely eliminated from the previous period. I am also very pleased that the other two things concerning the president of the OBH were a problem, the contact with the OBT and the relationship with the Hungarian Judicial Association, which was tragically wrong and settled at Tünde Hando, and Mr. President promised to do so during his application or during his hearing. I'm really glad it's okay. I would like to say a few more thoughts about IT developments. Mr President said that speed is extremely important because of a more efficient process. As a practicing lawyer for my part, I had a very negative view of the development of the IT system; obviously because it was difficult for me and new and difficult to accept, but today I see the full benefit of it. [[12.10]] Even if there are constantly potholes, which are also involved in the judicial IT system, because obviously where there is development, there are problems, but you can see now, over the course of several decades, that this is a very, very good thing, and it really makes contact, judgment and everything more efficient and faster. Thank God there were few lawsuits against the courts. Of these 386, there were only eight that were justified. I think it's very good. With regard to disciplinary proceedings, I also see that there is no problem. On this basis, I see that the proposal of the Judicial Committee is fully acceptable and that we should support the adoption of the President's report, in any case the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports it. Mr President, I wish all the employees of the OBH further good strength, health and all the best. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-02-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-12-02-31	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear György Seneyei President OBH I do not wish to repeat what I said in my Commission President's expo, but as a Christian Democrat, it is important to say how our group considers the operation of the OBH in 2020. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the 2020 report, the Christian Democrats see that the OBH has managed its human and material resources in a thoughtful and sparing way. With regard to the national compensation of the judicial workload, the OBH has again made significant progress, and we particularly welcome the development of the OBH in 2020, which points to the direction that Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should apply. The ideal of the 100th-century court can be realized in Hungary, Hungary. Indeed, as Vice-President Csaba Gyüre said in his keynote speech, when these IT developments started to take place in the judicial sector, including in the courts, I heard that judges, lawyers and employees had their hair on the sky, but now we are on the verge of having matured systems, and we really had to learn about this new system, this new E-PER system and the e-government system, and on this basis, the process itself is much more transparent, much simpler, and obviously the different regulations serve this. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would also like to thank Mr President for his work. We wish you further good health and success in your work, and we wish you and your colleagues the blessing of God, and further success. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP faction also supports the report of the President of the National Court of Justice in 2020 and the proposal for a decision of the Judicial Committee. Thank you very much for your attention. Please, support me. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-02-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zoltán Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-12-02-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Thank you, thank you for your report. Indeed, we have seen an extremely detailed account, and now we have heard from you, with an unspeakable number. So probably anyone who wanted to hear anything about it could know everything. It was very exciting otherwise, I think it's very fair. However, it is inevitable, obviously in addition to the report, to open up all the branches of truth, as they say, and, as in the report of the Curia, here, in this case, we must talk about the European Parliament's report on the rule of law. Let us do this also because it is a complete picture when we talk about justice and Hungarian law, because the EP's report does, in some way, give us an image of the last 11 years, in fact, a certain degree of the essence of the Orbán course. It's really just a big picture right now. We know very well that, as in all EU Member States, the delegation itself has examined four areas: independence of justice, corruption, the situation of the media, as well as the system of brakes and balances. The report refers back to the findings made in 2020 on a number of issues and, in many respects, it concludes that the problems identified previously remain unchanged and that the practices considered as worrying continue. Therefore, all I can do is talk about the many existing problems that have existed in 2020 and have been deteriorating ever since. According to the report, the self-management body of judges, the National Judicial Council, is hindered by a number of systemic barriers to effectively fulfilling constitutional functions and exercising effective supervision over the President of the National Court of Justice. For example, the report identifies as such a limitation that OBT is not a legal person, that it cannot initiate amendments to the law on judges, that its opinion should not be taken into account in legislation. Although the new president of the OBH is more cooperative with OBT than his predecessor, Tünde Hando, the cooperation takes place only in the legal sphere. However, no substantive action has been taken to eliminate systemic problems. According to the report, the new President of the OBH continues the practice of annulment of court management proposals, which has already led to conflicts between the OBT and the previous president of the OBH. The new OBH President decides increasingly and most often without proper justification that he does not wish to fill the vacancy with a candidate qualified by the Judges. As a result of the decision, three cases of temporary agents of his choice were already in place. With regard to judicial appointments, the report also points out that judicial leaders exercise powers which are important for the promotion of judges, and recalls that some powers, such as the possibility of disinheriting or the possibility of secondment, may be of concern for the irreplaceability of judges. With regard to the amendments to the courts, it is necessary to note that the Orbán Government will submit, on average, a large judicial package every 3-4 months, in which it will also amend the laws concerning the judicial order. In 2020, for example, in March, July and October, and this spring and this autumn, there was such a significant change. On this basis, the government still does not understand the need for a stable and predictable legal order. The effectiveness of justice does not simply mean the pace of handling cases, although you have obviously talked about it, but also the quality of decisions. Predictability should be a fundamental aspect when assessing the quality of judicial decisions. The decision can be calculated if the judge takes into account only legally relevant facts relating to the case and does not give rise to any political or economic pressure. An effective procedure is therefore conditional on the independence of the judge and, of course, his impartiality. Judges shall be impartial and independent in determining the facts and applying the law to the facts. There are two sides to independence, however, to independence from external and internal influence. By independence from external influence, we can, of course, also mean that the court must be independent of any external organisation, including legislation, government, political parties, other legal professions, but also the press, civil society, litigation parties or any other power outside the court that could violate the autonomy of the court or even the judge. [[12.20]] You know better than I do, but the Court of Human Rights has also ruled in a previous judgment that full independence requires proper organisational separation from the executive power. This independence, on the other hand, I feel that we feel that it has been in danger since 2010. The reduction of judicial autonomy, the influence of court judgments, the adoption of courts, which are the last bastion of the rule of law, was a longing for Viktor Orbán himself. The first step is the judicial status, the complete restructuring of the organizational system, the establishment of a fully-fledged National Court Office, and the planting of Fidesz-bound party soldiers in important positions. And obviously we could continue this line here, because we talked about the Mansion an hour and a half ago. I don't want to bring up what happened there, but obviously that proves it. Thank you very much, and I wish you every success in your work. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-12-02-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am now asking my fellow Members if someone would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Imre Vejkey asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2021-12-02-35	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to the keynote speech of our fellow Member, Zoltán Varga, DK. In this connection, I must stress that the European Parliament is addressing a series of political issues for the Hungarian judiciary. I find that completely illegal. It violates the independence of the Hungarian court, the principle of power-sharing in Montesquieu and all that we are fighting for at the time and now. In particular, I would like to respond from the European Parliament's Rule of Law report to two things that my fellow Member has called. They find it offensive that OBT is not a legal person. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Curia itself, the Supreme Court, is not a legal person. Well, could OBT be an independent legal entity? And what is completely incomprehensible is that they are saying that they are criticising the President of the OBH, Mr György Seneyei, because the president of the OBH is only doing his cooperation with OBT in the legal circle. Well, what's he supposed to do? The problem is you're not friends with them or whatever the problem is. ? Well, of course he's fulfilling his statutory duties. What's he supposed to do? The one they give him from abroad, the one they give him? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-02-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Seneyei György Barna, President of the National Court Office, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I respectfully ask Mr. President if he would like to talk about his seat or the platform. [[Dr. György Seneyei Brown: I'm going out...]] Then we'll wait for him to get up on the platform. The time frame is 30 minutes. [[Dr. György Seneyei Brown: Thank you, Mr. President.]] So you have time to respond calmly. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-12-02-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I just heard the bell ring, so now I'm gonna avoid it, make a promise. [[Defiance.]] There are overlaps between the points, but in the order of the speeches I will attempt to answer all honourable Members. First of all, I thank you all for your attention and your contribution. In order, Mr Zoltán Kovács's comment. Undoubtedly, it is a profound social need for cases to be completed quickly, that is without question. I have always stressed this, and I have stressed it, and it is also related to the comment of Mr Csaba Gyüre, that the quick conclusion of cases is an acceptable, eminent social interest, but it is obviously only on a professional basis, and what is very important is that the conclusion of the case cannot be immediate, it cannot be hasty. It is difficult to acknowledge, but we have to note that the multiple complexity and internal gravity of the cases referred to by the representatives of the Member States, which is most of the cases, some of them, and most of them, are already a subjective category, and the consequence is that there are cases that are complex, the number of clients, the number of plaintiffs, defendants, accused persons, the facts of the case, the need to obtain expert opinions, where appropriate, several different expert opinions, and, where appropriate, the resolution of differences between expert opinions, obviously takes a long time to rule out the closure of the cases within two years, and to rule out a thorough review of the appeal, multiple redress and, where appropriate, an incorrect conclusion. I really share your position; I do not share your position from the head of the office, but I share your position from 25 years of judicial practice, of which I took 23 years on the bench. Compared to the second half of the '90s, I can talk about civilist matters. Indeed, some of the cases have become more difficult, the conclusion, the internal structure of the cases, the factual, not only its legal judgment, but also its legal judgment, and often its factual judgement have become more difficult. This also covers and characterizes criminal and civil matters that I personally know. To Mr Zoltán Kovács's speech, it is even clear from the report that, compared to 2019, we are witnessing an interesting phenomenon, namely the backlog. They share where he grew and where the backlog went down. Compared to 2019, as indicated in the report, the backlog of the case in the district courts and the first instance, i.e. the first instance proceedings, has typically increased in the country; not to a significant extent, but no doubt, the fact that it has increased. In the second instance of forensics, the judgment board and the Curia, the backlog was reduced in 2020 compared to 2019. So, to put it bluntly, it increased in the first instance procedure and decreased in appeals procedures. Mr Csaba Gyüre's speech: what you mentioned in your introduction, Member, I share. Indeed, this was a difficult time not only for me, but also for the whole country, the whole world, and within this court organisation, to maintain the functioning of the courts at all, while, as far as possible, protecting the health of the law-seeking audience and of the parties to the proceedings and of the judicial staff as compared to the possibility. Here, too, the points are that there is a need for a balance between soundness and timeliness. This type of balansation is actually essential here, because the foundation is indeed primary, but the timeliness, the time factor in the civil lawsuit, is to say such a term-like sentence, it cannot be ignored. To the part of judicial independence, by the way, since both Mr Kovács and Mr Gyüre spoke not only as a representative but also as a former legal representative and lawyer, then let us do so, that obviously judicial independence is also part of the wording of the operative part, and statistics follow from the operative part. If Members remember, there is a decision of the second instance which is drafted in such a way that the judgment panel or the court, the court of second instance, upholds the judgment of the Court of First Instance in the main subject matter of the case, and is written in a new paragraph, while the judgment of first instance is changed in the context of the trial cost and the court delivers or raises the court's costs. [[12.30]] If this method of procedure is used, this wording will be introduced as an incorrect judgment in the statistics. It may be the exact same judgment, however, if we say that the Court of First Instance will change the judgment of the Court of First Instance in text, it will increase the amount of the court's costs, it will be delivered by an exact comma, it will be written in a new paragraph, and in other words the Court of First Instance will keep it in order. It is the same judgment, but according to statistics, it is already within the conceptual scope of a changing judgment. However, how to define the operative part cannot be left to judges in Hungary, as this is an essential part of judicial independence. This will be reflected in statistics. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, you have also raised the number of employees. I fully agree, there is one essential point in the management of staff that we must not plan for one year to another, but we must start from decades ago and plan for decades later. The essence of this is responsible staff management. No one wants a hitchhiker, and no one wants a layover. We have to manage with responsibility the number of cases, the number of cases, the amount of cases, and within this one element is the internal structure of the cases, but the very essence of the responsible staff management is that there is no room for one in today's court system: a kind of extensive human resources management, i.e. mechanical replacement, so that if a fellow judge ceases to have a relationship, it is automatically replaced, because there is an organization in which there is no reason to do so. This is why, as far as possible, it is not possible to measure the differences in a fully uniform way, the degree of difficulty of each case, the burden of each judicial department, and the optimal number of judges that we consider to be in the process at all times can be established as a coefficient. This is just a responsibility, responsible farming, and I find an extensive type of activity and thinking to be completely avoided in this context. Obviously, electronicization, court digitalization, I can say this to all of us who were in the courtroom, that our age group, we still saw a judgment in the form of percussion paper, so when the verdict was still written on a percussion paper, court digitalization really meant something new for us, as well as for Congressman Vejkey, Congressman Kovács, Congressman Gyure and me. We must acknowledge that the world has changed. Obviously, I will also translate the comparison of the pothole, if I may, Congressman: have you really failed to negotiate on account of a possible case-by-case lack of digitalisation? The answer is yes, it's missed, and there's been an example. He's drawn here, as old wisdom says, where they're found, there's chips. For there was a long time since there was no trial, only then not because of the lack of digitalization, but again I say, who were in the courtroom, that because the veto did not come back, this has happened, and we will live with these phenomena. Digitalization has reached a new quality, obviously upgrading, ad hoc steps are always necessary, but this process cannot be stopped, even if we sometimes like to think back and look for it on the old banner paper... let's say, then the judgments were shorter, because the computer encourages us, judges, a little bit more poentírólás and sometimes longer reflections, which is not a problem, but a fact. Congressman Imre Vejkey was also talking about the IT system, the expansion of IT. As I said before, it really scared us, our age group, has moved us to a new way of thinking, new ways of working, but this cannot be stopped, and the pandemic has assessed the steps we took to date, because we did not have to start from the beginning, but to move on, to a new quality, and we will continue to do so at all times, and I believe that the expansion of digitalization, the digitalization of the court, must continue regardless of the pandemic situation. Mr Zoltán Varga's suggestion: the National Court of Justice Council is indeed working together with the National Court Office and as its President. There is a continuous relationship, obviously this is completely natural, between the audited and the control body, we can say that this is a specific organizational sociological law, that, where appropriate, jurisdictional disputes arise, and, if appropriate, obviously, after a judge is checked by a panel of judges, it is perfectly natural that, where appropriate, legal interpretation disputes may arise. We have to live with this, it is part of the three-part model of the Hungarian justice system. I assure Congressman that judges do not give in to political, economic pressure. In Hungary, the impartiality and independence of the courts are guaranteed. With regard to the overpowering of the President of the OBH, this is an old debate I can say in this context: as President of the National Court of Justice, I strive to comply with the law and to abide by the law at all levels. I know exactly the difference between right and wrong. I have always provided a detailed justification for the unsuccessful tenders, the percentage of which is low. In fact, as of August 2021, I will also justify the national decision of the President of the Court which is not otherwise required under the legislation. So the laws always define my activities, and I carry out my work according to my oath, and I not only enforce compliance with the legal obligations in relation to the National Court Office and the National Council of Judges, but I try to do so in all areas of my activities. Obviously, Mr President, you have mentioned the influence, this is also a question that has been exposed in recent years, the criticism of judgments. Yes, this is the issue of the criticism of judgments. Several responses have already been made, and judgments can, of course, be criticised. If this framework is exceeded by the critic, then, if necessary, legal or not necessarily legal, but by turning to publicity, I will try to use it as the President of the National Court Office. But I always stress that legal action can always be taken in the final case, since judges and courts are primarily responsible for giving judgment and not seeking judgment by litigation and other means. Sometimes it can't be avoided, of course. Congressman Varga mentioned the LIBE Committee. With the representatives of the LIBE Committee, we had a dialogue with my fellow judges at the Hungarian Academy of Justice, and we listened to their suggestions and answered their questions. I always say that when a final position is drawn up, I will give you an answer as necessary, but one thing is certain, dialogue is so difficult and even impossible if the question is political and there is a legal answer to that, because the two will not be balanced. I have been a judge for 25 years and, consequently, I cannot give political answers to political questions or get involved in political debates. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you for your attention, thank you for your questions, and allow me to say good-bye to all of you, and as this has become of great importance in recent years, I wish you first and foremost good health. Thank you for listening, bye-bye. [[12.40]]
u2021-12-02-38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Mr Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-12-02-39	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, Mr OBH, for your detailed answers and reactions to the questions and comments raised. I would also like to thank the President of the OBH for his support for judicial independence, and for his support for the rule of law in Hungary, even if the attacks come from Brussels, Strasbourg or various NGOs. It's a difficult task, but thank you from here. It is indeed a difficult task when the president of the OBH receives political questions, because he cannot give a political answer, ladies and gentlemen, because he is not a politician. He gives legal answers, but there is no legal answer to a political question. I would ask you there in Brussels, in Strasbourg and also in NGOs to leave the Hungarian rule of law alone, not to interfere with the decision of independent Hungarian courts. Thank you again for your sincere answers, and thank you for your kind attention. Please support the 2020 report. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-02-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Once again, I would like to thank President György Senyei and his colleagues for their appearance, and I wish them all the best for their activities. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2020 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision adopting it will follow up until closure. Report submitted by the Attorney General B/16954. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee is H/17390. The IT network of the House is accessible to all of us. With all due respect, I would like to welcome Mr Péter Polt and the staff of the High Prosecutor's Office, who would like to welcome today's meeting with their presence. I respectfully ask the Attorney General to keep the report. We'll wait for Mr. Attorney General to get up on the bench. I'm asking you to provide water to the Attorney General. Mr. Attorney General, you have the floor. Your time frame is 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2021-12-02-41	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Present Congressman Lords! As Mr President said, on the basis of my obligation under the Fundamental Law, I submitted my parliamentary report for last year, which is available in writing to everyone. Obviously, I do not have the time or the opportunity to present the whole thing orally here, so allow me to highlight some of the details I consider important, and then, of course, I am available if the honourable ladies and gentlemen are interested in other details. In the first place, I must point out that, unfortunately, the corona virus epidemic also affected the conditions of the prosecution's work in 2020. I would like to say that in the first wave of the epidemic, there was an enormous increase in the proportion of domestic workers, the digital conditions of which had to be developed, in any case around 29-30 percent of those who had to work away from the workplace. In addition, we have, of course, introduced all known health care measures, but this has meant new and unprecedented working conditions. As regards the professional side of the same issue, the emergency situation introduced in March 2020 had to be assessed on the basis of procedural rules other than those already provided for in the Criminal Procedure Act. As a result, the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office has been greatly appreciated as it has been necessary to actively help to complete the procedures in a rapid and epidemiological way and to create different professional challenges than before. The impact of a changed life situation and a temporary change in the legal environment can also be seen in many respects in data reflecting the practice of the prosecution last year. This is apparent from the account. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by László Földi.) What has not changed, however, is that, as in previous years, the number of registered crimes decreased in 2020, so this was incorporated into the previous trend. In the previous year 162 416 crimes were registered, slightly more than 3,000 less than in 2019. Despite the decline in registered crimes, the prosecution's file turnover remained very high, with 1 million 270 thousand in 2020. This has been minimal since 2019 but we have seen a steady increase since the entry into force of the new Criminal Procedure Act. This upward trend did not break with this minimal decrease. The report deals in detail with individual crime groups and I do not wish to discuss this at the moment, but given the considerable public interest, I would like to address corruption crimes for a few reasons. I would like to stress that the prosecution's commitment to fighting corruption is unbroken. The role of the Central Investigator's Attorney General has become even more pronounced than before, since, with the entry into force of the new criminal law law, the investigation of all corruption offences in the office has become the power of the prosecutor. This also means that investigations into non-official corruption offences will continue to be carried out by other investigative authorities, in the field of detection, on their own, and then in the field of investigation with prosecution. The number of registered corruption offences was higher than in 2019 in the reference year, with 2049 registered in 2020 compared to 460 in 2019. This, by the way, fits into the process of not having a fully defined trend. There are crimes that produce outliers in some years due to plurality, chained crime. In order to prevent statistical questions, I would like to say that the increase in the number of offences recorded in the completed investigations follows the increase in the number of registered procedures with delay, so a larger number of procedures registered in 2019 can be seen behind the increase in the number of registered offences in 2020. I would like to mention in particular that the real number of corruption crimes is not the same as perception numbers, i.e. the numbers that detect corruption. For this reason, I would like to bring up some of the results of the Eurobarometer 502 survey published in June 2020, which revealed that the sense of corruption is indeed significantly different from the real objective situation. According to the survey, 87 percent of respondents considered corruption a widespread problem in Hungary, but at the same time when they were asked about actual individual experiences, when it was not based on subjective ideas, they detected a significantly smaller rate of corruption. [[12.50]] Otherwise, there can be several explanations for the difference between subjective feeling and real facts. On the one hand, the survey confirmed the highest rate of corruption in health care: 49 percent of respondents came into contact with the health sector and 13 percent experienced corruption. The same figure for economic life: 13 percent had contact with the sector, but only 3 percent had experience corruption. It is important to stress that the experience of respondents in the area identified by official corruption was approximately the same as that of other EU countries: 1-2 percent. I would point out that the criminal prosecution of corruption phenomena in health in 2020 was completely different from that of later legislation, in essence criminal prosecution was only possible later. The other possible explanation for the difference between perception indexes and reality may be that public opinion and some research, under the collective name of corruption, also include acts that are not considered corruption offences in the Criminal Code, which are mainly economic crimes, and that are important to address. Therefore, whitening the economy in the prosecutor's office remains a priority. We pay great attention to the detection of crimes that have a significant impact on the legality of the operation of economic life. These are fiscal fraud and fraudulent treatment, but the number of these has decreased over the last year. At the same time, the number of offences called "proceeding and concession procedures" has increased in the agreement that can be classified in the same area, which also means that the perpetrators have turned their attention to this type of crime. Moreover, the most significant crime of the crime group, the cases brought about by fiscal fraud, remains characterised by wide-ranging, complex factual and legal judgements, and new forms of crime can be encountered every year. It may be interesting to note that in 2020 the amount of the financial disadvantage caused in these cases involved in the indictment was more than HUF 36 billion, while in the case of indictments for fraudulent treatment, which is only 21 acts, contrary to the previous 784 actions, this amount was more than HUF 10 billion. Thus, it appears that individual acts of misappropriation may be of a magnitude higher than fiscal fraud. I would also like to discuss the relationship with the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF. OLAF is known to be a monitoring body of the European Commission, which has been set up to protect the budget and investigate administrative irregularities. As a result, it is not intended to hold the perpetrators of criminal offences liable or to obtain evidence that can be used in criminal proceedings, nor does it have the means or powers to do so, but if it detects suspicion of a criminal offence, it may make a judicial recommendation to the authorities of that State, including the authorities of Hungary, to the prosecutor's office. There is a very close relationship between OLAF and the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office, and on the basis of the judicial recommendations and signals addressed to us, there has been always a prosecutor's action in 2020, just as an investigation was carried out before and after it, or we have assessed OLAF's recommendation and signal in an ongoing investigation. All such cases are a priority in Hungary, and in 2020, 17 such investigations have been carried out in the past, all of which have affected the EU budget. In particular, according to OLAF's 2020 report, the Public Prosecutor's Office charged the EU average, which is 37%, significantly above and around 67 percent of the cases. Moreover, in 2020, OLAF made two judicial recommendations to the prosecutor's organisation, both of which were assessed in an ongoing investigation. It can be seen that every year the number of judicial recommendations is decreasing, I would like to stress that we should not confuse it, not the financial recommendations, another category in OLAF's recommendations, but the number of judicial recommendations, and therefore it can be concluded that every year there are fewer and fewer cases of judicial inquiry into EU money. In 2020, however, five cases were charged with OLAF's recommendations, while no criminal proceedings were brought at all this year. The Public Prosecutor's Office of Hungary has an excellent relationship with the other EU closely cooperating organisation, Eurojust, which is the Union's body coordinating the prosecution's work. In addition to Member States, the Hungarian National Section acted in 755 cases in 2020, and we participated in four newly created and eleven ongoing joint investigation teams, which is a top priority for EU prosecution cooperation. A few words about the conduct of criminal proceedings. Following the imposition of an emergency, the temporary rules on criminal proceedings introduced by means of a regulation, followed by a law on their partial maintenance, provided for the provision of presence by means of a telecommunications device on a wider and sometimes mandatory basis than before. This has enabled the presence of certain persons to be guaranteed at a minimum risk, both from a health and personal identification point of view, and procedural acts to be maintained in accordance with the requirements of a fair procedure. As I said, but I would like to repeat it again, the prosecutor's office, reacting quickly to the situation, has modified, implemented, accelerated, in our opinion, IT developments in the light of these aspects. The fundamental rights status of the Public Prosecutor's Office has not changed in the light of the epidemic situation, and as a public prosecutor, he worked as the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim, and the prosecutor's office was therefore obliged to enforce state criminal claims during the epidemic situation. The prosecution's investigative activities have also changed in a number of ways because of the epidemic. The transitional provisions allowed the prosecution and investigating authority to postpone the conduct of certain procedural acts and, in extreme cases, to suspend the proceedings for up to six months if the continuation of the proceedings is an unavoidable obstacle. In 2020, the Public Prosecutor's Office paid particular attention in the field of judicial oversight in the field of detection, and in particular in the management of the investigation phase, to the fact that, despite the possibility provided for by this regulation, the procedures would not be obstructed legally without due cause. In this context, the statistics show a particularly positive picture: in 2020 the prosecution received a notification of nearly 147 800 investigations, which does not include investigations that have taken place over the past year. In the light of the epidemiological situation, the investigating authorities have provided for 125 cases and the prosecution has provided for the suspension of proceedings only in six cases. I think these numbers are remarkable in themselves. However, we do not know that in any way this has had a negative impact on the epidemiological situation. The role of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the context of the investigation in 2020 has become significant in other respects: the acquisition and examination of evidence during the investigation has taken place more widely and in greater depth, in order to ensure that, at the judicial stage of the proceedings, the decision determining the case can be taken without extensive evidence being given or, where appropriate, even without a hearing being held. [[13.00]] In this context, the Prosecutor's Office examined 77 384 cases in the reference year as to whether they were capable of being prosecuted. 61,2 per cent of the cases under investigation were indicted by the prosecution, 23,2 per cent terminated the proceedings, 10,5 per cent applied conditional prosecutorial suspension and 4.6 per cent referred the case to mediation. The current Be. it has provided the prosecution with a broader possibility than the previous law in the reference year in relation to the assessment of the form of proceedings for cases liable to be prosecuted. In such cases, consideration should always be given to the effectiveness of the procedure and to the economics of the proceedings. In addition, it was also a priority in 2020 that we should prefer as little as possible to generate the spread of the epidemic. I would like to highlight the conditional prosecutor's suspension first, because this has and has an important role to play, because in this case, at least during the duration of the suspension, no further procedural action can be taken. In the previous year, the number of persons subject to conditional prosecutor suspension increased compared to the previous period. One of the reasons for this is obviously the epidemic situation, but the trend also indicates that there has been a change in the direction of law that gives greater scope to prevention in the field of criminal law than in the past. Secondly, the mediation procedure, which also showed an upward trend in 2020. If the legal conditions were in place, this solution can also be approved, partly because it allows greater scope for victim compensation, this is also a politically strongly supported direction and, on the other hand, benefits from an epidemiological point of view. Analyzing the types of prosecution, it can be concluded that the prosecution filed an indictment in 5689 under general rules, brought the defendant to justice in 2362 cases, while in 33 965 cases, and in the order of magnitude, a larger number of criminal proceedings. We can also observe the slow, but continuous expansion of the legal institution of the settlement, 58 cases were settled in 2020 and, as a result, the submission of the indictment. An analysis of trends in the types of indictment can be made of the following: In 2020, the proportion of cases subject to general rules and to all charges brought before the courts decreased compared to previous years, while, according to the previous figure, the rate of motions for criminal proceedings increased significantly. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) For years, we have been trying not to consider the prosecution of criminal offences and the claim to court as two competing legal institutions, but rather, taking into account the specific nature of the specific case, to choose the right procedural form. In most cases, the new aspect to be taken into account with the spread of the epidemic has chosen the issue for the benefit of criminal proceedings. It is also important to mention that the legislator has broadened the possibility of criminal proceedings with transitional rules, and I must add that 87.5 percent of the criminal proceedings carried out by the court in 2020 have become legal, so no one has asked for a hearing. Last year, as usual, we consistently expressed the view that instead of a motion for criminal proceedings, a court would be brought only if, in view of the effectiveness of the enforcement of criminal claims or the purpose of the punishment, the hearing could not be omitted. In 2020, as in previous years, the Public Prosecutor's Office took advantage of the possibility of making a specific plea in the indictment at the preparatory meeting to the extent of the legal disadvantage in the event of the defendant admitting that the offence was committed at the preparatory meeting. This is the institution of the motion. The submission of such a motion has also contributed significantly to the timely termination of criminal proceedings and the avoidance of unnecessary evidence in the past year. Briefly, the activity before the criminal court. In the last year, there was also a two-week exceptional case-law break, and then, on 31 March 2020, the special procedural rules introduced in the event of an emergency entered into force for the post-indictment phase. It is therefore necessary to increase the importance of the forms of procedure which allowed the decision to be made without any personal involvement, in particular on the basis of documents. In 2020, the number of cases settled by the court and the number of accused persons affected decreased by 18 percent compared to the previous year. This is partly correlated with a reduction in registered crime and can be explained by the fact that in 2020 certain procedural acts involving personal presence could not be carried out, so that courts could hold fewer hearings and a public meeting. With regard to appeals, I would also like to highlight the following. Last year, the effectiveness of the prosecutor's appeals was 52.2 percent, which was somewhat below the rate observed last year. We continue to believe that the case-law is mild and that the courts have still failed to take account of the medium at times. In such a case, the prosecution tried to comply with the legal requirement by means of an appeal for an aggravate, and 84,7 percent of the appeals lodged were still aimed at aggravating the penalty. The effectiveness of this is still low, with only 28.9 percent. The prosecution's efficiency has been steadily increasing since 2013. I only say that because I tell you every year. Last year, the highest value of the last ten years, 98.9 percent, could be registered, but it is more important to note that 82.9 percent of the defendants were found by the court on the same basis as the charge and the final order in all respects. In short, it's about public interest protection. The figures for 2020 show that there was a decrease of around 11,7 per cent in the number of disputes in this field. The decisive factor in this was the reduction in the number of legality control cases. On the other hand, a 2.4 percent increase in private law cases was observed. The Public Prosecutor's Office will continue to focus on important areas such as environmental protection and enforcement of consumer rights. In the context of the work of the public interest protection sector, I have to mention the reliability tests specifically, and here I also attach back to corruption cases. The purpose of this legal institution is to establish that a protected person within the scope of the law fulfils his statutory duties. In 2020, the designated Attorney Generals' Offices approved a decision on 986 reliability investigations. Based on the investigations carried out, 9 criminal proceedings were opened, 5 involving police, 2 involving the Directorate-General for Foreign Police, 1 involving the Prime Minister's Office and 1 involving the prison. The prosecution's judicial oversight of the execution of sentences has also been greatly affected by the epidemic situation. There was also a decrease in the number of cases registered in this area. Personal control of the prisons because of the epidemic has either become impossible or has become very difficult during that period. I believe that, at the same time, the prosecutor's office has fulfilled its obligation to supervise legality through the use of various technical means. According to the Criminal Procedure Act, the General Prosecutor has the exclusive right to bring an appeal to the Court in the interest of legality against a final decision or a final decision which is not decisive and which cannot be challenged by any other extraordinary remedy. This took place in 7 cases in 2020, and in all cases the Curia shared our arguments in the appeal motion. Finally, I would also like to mention in a sentence that the public prosecutor's situation and management have been sound and sound in the reference year. [[13.10]] Dear Parliament, It is my personal opinion that the prosecutor's office has fulfilled its tasks imposed by the Fundamental Law and the Law on it on the basis of the report; it may be the result of the opinion of the professionals to what degree. I believe that there is no reason to be ashamed, whether we are looking at the European Union or at other countries. What I see is that Hungary's prosecutorship is the prosecutorship of the State of Law and it firmly defends the principles of the rule of law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-02-42	I'd like to thank Mr. Attorney General for his report. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, the rapporteur of the motion for a decision, who will also give his speech on the pulpit. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2021-12-02-43	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Allow me, first of all, to welcome myself to the plenary session of the Parliament, Mr Péter Polt, the Deputy Prosecutor General and their colleagues. Pursuant to Article 25 ( 5) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Attorney General submitted to the National Assembly the B/16954 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2020. The Court of Justice of the European Union, acting on behalf of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union and acting on behalf of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and acting on behalf of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union, shall adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Fundamental Law, Hungary's prosecutorship is the sole enforcer of criminal law claims in respect of the Hungarian State, and it also performs other tasks assigned to it by law. The year 2020 was defined by the corona virus, dominated by the pandemic, which also posed extraordinary challenges to the functioning of the prosecutor's organisation. During the debate, the Judicial Committee welcomed the measures taken by the Public Prosecutor's Office to ensure the health of the prosecutors, the prosecution and the actors in the enforcement of sentences, as well as effective work. Thank you so much. The committee shall support the timely termination of proceedings by the prosecution, the use of institutions other than traditional prosecutions and the compensation of victims, in accordance with the legislative objective. Once again, the Committee commends the prosecution's work which results in a reduction in the number of registered offences year after year. This trend continued in 2020, albeit slightly below the previous year, and in some categories of crime, such as intentional, completed manslaughter, the numbers have increased. The Judicial Committee also welcomed the transformation of the prosecutor's organisation system, which is justified by the new challenges and uniform treatment of offences committed against or using information systems. The Committee will continue to support the prosecution's efforts to whiteen budgetary fraud and the economy. It also supports the extension of the application of procedures without personal involvement by the prosecutor, thereby increasing the number of proceedings ending with a criminal order in accordance with the legislative intention, the procedures ending with a conditional prosecutor's suspension and the number of mediation procedures. The committee also expressed its appreciation for the fact that the prosecution was able to further increase the outcome of the prosecution. This was 98,9 per cent in 2020 and almost 88 per cent of court cases were decided in the same way as the prosecution. Congratulations! The Committee also dealt with the public interest protection activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In doing so, it welcomed measures taken to protect victims, such as public prosecutors' awareness raising in matters of distance, child protection initiatives or conservation, environmental and animal protection measures. The members of the committee raised questions to the Attorney General regarding the detection and prosecution of corruption offences, legislative proposals arising from his experience in the application of the law of the prosecutor's office and transport offences. At committee meetings, the Attorney General gave complete and exhaustive answers to these questions. The prosecutor's organisation was able to carry out its work in 2020 under the legal framework and in accordance with the requirements of timeliness. We would like to thank Mr Péter Polt and all prosecutors and prosecutors for his work. The Judicial Committee concluded that the report also informed Parliament in detail of the wide-ranging tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office relating to the judiciary, its activities under public law, its statutory audit work and its work in connection with the enforcement procedures. Ladies and Gentlemen, At the meeting of the Judicial Committee on 26 October 2021, B/16954 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2020. His report was adopted by 9 votes to two, with no abstentions. Our Committee on House Rules 84. H/17390 submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Act. In its proposal for a decision, the Attorney General recommends his report for 2020 to this House for adoption. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-02-44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-12-02-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear House, Our European culture, our existence in Europe, rests on three large pedestals. One is the idea of freedom and democracy of Greek philosophy, the other is Christianity itself and the third is Roman law. Therefore, if I may, I would like to add to my speech a Roman legal sentence, which is a kind of slogan and guiding thought of everything I would like to say today in relation to the report of the honourable Attorney General. It says: "Iustitia est regnorum fundamental; modern translation: every state, every state is based on law. According to Article 29 of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent, and as a public prosecutor, the public prosecutor is the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim. The Public Prosecutor's Office pursues crimes, acts against other illegal acts and omissions, and facilitates the prevention of illegal acts. Article 29 (5) of our Fundamental Law states that the Attorney General is subject to an annual reporting obligation to the Parliament on the operation of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the year. [[13.20]] The Judicial Committee, as Mr President has said, has examined the report before us, which is extremely detailed, thorough and reviewable, and has found it acceptable, together with the additions of the Attorney General. Dear Parliament, I would point out that, under the leadership of the Attorney General, the Prosecutor's Office has been able to adapt as effectively as possible to the challenges posed by the emergency situation introduced in March 2020, in particular with regard to the fact that the legislator has laid down procedural rules other than those laid down in the Criminal Procedure Act. The Public Prosecutor's Office had to be operated in such a way that it could carry out its duties, avoid backlogs and assist the actors in the justice system while protecting human life and health. As a result of a thorough examination of the report, We can say that the Hungarian prosecutor's office has given effective answers to the challenges, its role has been greatly appreciated, since it represented not only the prosecution before the court, or the supervision of the investigation, but also helped to complete the proceedings as soon as possible. The reduction in the number of registered offences continued in 2020, as well as the tendency for the prosecution to choose the most favourable procedural form to facilitate the swift termination of the procedure and to effectively enforce the State's criminal needs, taking into account the specific features of the specific case. Data show that the rate of faster, more efficient procedures has increased significantly compared to 2019. One of the most accurate indicators of the successful functioning of the prosecution is the so-called indictment. This was 98.9% in 2020. Of course, a figure in itself says little, but it has to be compared with how few victims have lived with your surrogate self. It is also worth pointing out that almost 88 percent of those charged have been found to have criminal liability in the same way as the charge. Based on these data, we can say that the Hungarian prosecutor's office is on the right track. The epidemic has reduced the number of court trials and increased the importance of the forms of procedure which, without any personal involvement, have enabled the decision to be taken primarily on the basis of documents. In 2020, there was a significant increase in the number of conditional prosecutors' stays and criminal proceedings. This is due, inter alia, to the fact that, under the guidance of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, any case in which the legal conditions for this are laid down should be subject to a motion to carry out criminal proceedings. The success of this is supported by the fact that almost 72 percent of all indictments were proposed by the prosecutor. Dear House, In criminal law enforcement, it is essential that prosecutors adopt the same position on controversial issues, which is also a significant guarantee of legal certainty to date. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office issued a number of opinions of principle in 2020, some of which I would definitely like to highlight. The guidelines on the duties and enforcement issues of the Procedural Regulation provided, inter alia, that in any case in which the legal conditions exist, a motion for criminal proceedings should be made, whereas a court may be brought before the courts only in exceptional cases where immediate action with rigour of the law cannot be ignored. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office also took a position on how to interpret the provisions of the rumors in force from 31 March 2020. Guidelines also addressed the set of questions about the crime of sexual violence and the crime of endangering the minor. Guidelines drew attention to the need to enforce the full rigour of the law in the event of certain behaviours which are abnormally dangerous to road safety. A resolution interpreted the unsubstantiated forms of fiscal fraud, including the fact that, if not the head of the taxpayer's company, the tax return containing misleading data is submitted by the head of the tax office, but, on the basis of a mandate, mandate or instruction, the employee of the taxpayer or other company, for example, a representative of the accounting office, the perpetrator of the fiscal fraud, the head of the taxpayer's company or the person actually submitting the tax return. Ladies and gentlemen, We consider it legitimate that, in addition to practical work, the Public Prosecutor's Office will devote time to the pursuit of the law and to the pursuit of scientific and theoretical theoretical activities. In this context, I would point out that prosecutors are respected participants in legal science, regularly publish articles, studies, as well as personal copyright books, university textbooks, and other higher education publications. Everyone in the top management of the DA's Office has a scientific degree; 30 prosecutors, assistant prosecutors and 17 other prosecutors have completed their scientific degrees, of which 5 have been habilitated in the reference year, and 2 have been doctors of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. He's a student of 45 prosecutors, assistant prosecutors and prosecutors at various doctoral schools. In the reference year, researchers from the National Institute of Criminology published a total of 99 publications, of which 9 were published in foreign languages. The colleagues held a total of 50 presentations at various conferences and professional forums, of which 6 were delivered in foreign languages. A significant proportion of researchers are members or officials of national or international professional organisations related to scientific work. Dear House, The report is supported by the Fidesz Group, given that the prosecutor's office met high standards of social expectations in 2020. We thank the Attorney General for his work, and we wish him and the D.A. further good work. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2021-12-02-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-12-02-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Colleagues, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Chief Speaker Károly Becsó Fidesz told me here that the DA's office is on the right track, on the right track. Indeed, we have heard from Mr President here, and we have also seen in his written report the statistics that really show that the prosecution is on the right track and that almost 99 percent of the prosecution is on the right track. This has been rising every year since 2010 since I've been here. I don't know how much longer this can go on, but you still seem to be able to, that's the indictment. Of course, it's obviously nice, 98.7 percent, but the question is that really statistics always show what they should and we have heard from a great politician that I only believe the statistics that I forged, said the Prime Minister of England at the time. There have been enough problems in 2020, and the corona virus epidemic has obviously shown its teeth in all areas, so the prosecution has had a difficult time, but that is not what I would like to talk about in the first place. The Attorney General has just told me about the pulpit, and I am trying to quote it literally, and he has put a great deal of emphasis on corruption crimes. Obviously, he knew that the opposition would speak about this, and he must have gotten used to it in recent years. He said that the D.A.'s commitment to corruption crimes was unbroken. Mr. Attorney General. My biggest problem, or our biggest problem, is that we don't see it. So you may always tell us here in the report that all you have to look at here is the legislation, what the legislation defines exactly, and that the sense of society is completely different, how we ordinary citizens feel about corruption, but the law doesn't define it, and you can only look at what the law defines. He always says that corruption is virtually difficult to detect, since it is virtually only possible to combat bribery by secret service means, and it is very difficult to prove it. Yes, we can see that in Hungary there is some difficulty in proving it than in other countries. Hungary is completely different and works. If you look at the fact that since the change of regime from 2000 to 2006, you have been the main prosecutor, and then you were the Attorney General until 2010-2021, this is 17 years, if I count correctly, from the very short 31 years since the change of regime, we can see that your name has marked the prosecution's criminal policy since the change of regime, and we can see that since then Hungary's judgment in the area of corruption has become incredibly bad. [[13.30]] You always tell me that the prosecution has no responsibility in this, but we politicians have a different outcome, completely different ones. We do see that there is a connection. Between 2000 and 2006, you have received numerous criticisms about the then prosecutorial leadership, and you have been accused, in particular, that the detection rate in corruption cases has deteriorated greatly, in many cases no investigation has been ordered or denied. In many cases, investigations have stopped, and especially in cases where the government of the time, the people associated with the circles of the first Orbán government, was dealing with economic people at the time, matters involving politicians at the time, then somehow they have been stuck, and investigations on these matters have been stopped. As of 2010, much less corruption procedures have been launched than in previous times, and twice more corruption cases have been lifted since 2010 than before 2010. Why is that relevant? Because, as the Fundamental Law states, the D.A. is the sole enforcer of state criminal claims, and you have stressed it here, Mr. Attorney General. So that means that if you don't press charges, there's practically no crime, because the court can't determine the crime because it won't make it to court. I'm sure you've told me a lot of times here to start a substitute for yourself. Well, your private space is not as simple as that, because a simple man without investigative powers, no apparatus, no expertise in this area, will not be able to produce, produce evidence that an official investigative body can otherwise produce. He doesn't have any experts, he doesn't have any funds, he doesn't have the capacity, and the rest, and the rest, he won't be able to do that. Thus, the institution of the substitute private property alone will not replace this and will not allow any change to take place in this area. But the biggest problem I see is that, by the way, there is a slight deviation from the fact that we do not currently have it in Hungary, the political will is lacking entirely in order to eradicate corruption. In fact, obviously, it's not the Attorney General's fault, but this, I think, is clearly two thirds of the Fidesz-KDNP's fault. So, not only is the political will lacking to eradicate corruption, but there is a political will to deepen corruption in Hungary. Why am I saying this? We can clearly support this with the processes, the legislative processes that have been created since the second and third Orbán governments were created here in the last 11 years. Obviously, what would I highlight here? In the first step, Parliament's committees of inquiry were terminated by a two-thirds majority, in such a way that, in the event of the slightest suspicion of a criminal offence in a matter to be examined, the parliamentary committee of inquiry has no jurisdiction. Obviously, we remember the times when the oil-blowning took place in Hungary. What happened then? An investigation committee was formed, and there was a possibility that if politics was feared, the legislator feared that the executive authority would not act properly, because the interests or economic interests of persons who were very high at the level of politics would arise, the Parliament would have to intervene and the Parliament would set up a committee of inquiry. Well, that was very quickly, as one of the first measures during the second Orbán government, the two-thirds majority very, very cleverly eliminated it. Then the next step was the elimination of complaint law in criminal proceedings. In the event that the person who made the complaint was not the victim directly, he had no right to complain, if the investigating authority had terminated the proceedings, he was not, could no longer avoid, could not be appealed. What's the point? This is interesting because, for example, in most cases, Members of Parliament filed a complaint when the State was the victim. Public wealth has been damaged. Who can complain in this case? Well, the finance minister, because he's gonna represent the state. Obviously not the congressman, he'll be wiped out. That's why Fidesz-KDNP politicians always tell us why they didn't like to press charges. Well, in many cases, opposition politicians have reported corruption cases. What happened? The investigative authorities have either refused to investigate or have terminated the investigation. In the event that we complained about it, it was wiped out, there's no room for complaint, no further investigation, and it's gone nicely. Then let's look at the next step that the government has taken, and the two-thirds majority: the basic legislative limitation of the concept of public money. Well, clearly, why narrow down the concept of public money? It needs to be narrowed down in order to make the spending of public funds as opaque as possible, to have more opportunities to fish in confusion, to have more opportunities to steal these money, to withdraw it from public money, to narrow it down, and in that case, to be able to do so. Then the next step is to flee public property to foundations. From now on, we can't see what's happening to these money again. Billions disappear, tens of billions and hundreds of billions. Then there is a next step, making sports subsidies increasingly opaque. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that the tax forints delivered there are no longer public funds, they can no longer be seen, he said that he is losing his public money character. Finally, the court stated that these are public funds, because they are of public wealth, but this is also part of a process that clearly demonstrates the government's will and the Fidesz-KDNP will to deepen this kind of crisis in Hungary and to sink this country into the swamp of corruption. This is a continuous, fluid process that has been observed over the past 11 years, and the biggest problem, Mr Attorney General, is that you are also being used in this process, and the High Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office are also being used in this process, to participate in this political will. What we do not see is that there is an intention on the part of the prosecutor's office to pursue some kind of different, more robust criminal policy in this regard, and that it is indeed beginning to explore these crimes. Okay, well, there are some examples, such as the case of Roland Mengyi, the Simonka case, the Happy István case, where criminal proceedings involving politicians were launched. Some are finished, some are not finished, but this is just the tip of the iceberg. This affects a very, very, very, very small percentage of the cases, and we would like to see a change in that, that they are really taking action and that they would actually achieve great results. There are many international examples of this in the surrounding countries. There is Romania, for example, who has set up the Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and indeed, whether it is a Prime Minister or a minister, and they are actually prosecuting them, and this will only end if there is real accountability. There will also be the sword of Damocles above the heads of politicians, that if we steal public property, then yes, we will be punished, yes, we will also be caught by the criminal power of Hungary, the criminal power of Hungary, we are not above the law. Unfortunately, today in Hungary it is noticeable that, yes, the pro-government politicians, MEPs and many of the economic operators are above it, above the criminal power, because they cannot be reached. And yes, that's what people feel. And at the time when Hungary was on the world corruption rankings in such a place as where it was placed, when you became the chief prosecutor in Hungary, we were in the middle field on this corruption ranking in the European Union. We've come to the point that we're the hosts today. Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary are sitting on the corruption bench of the European Union, because we are the countries where corruption has become huge. Yes, Mr. Attorney General will say that yes, we feel that, and the Hungarian people feel that. I don't know how people feel. Obviously, if you get stabbed in the arm, you'll feel that it hurts because it really hurts. We feel what's really happening in this country, even though the media, the pro-government media, are doing everything they can to color this thing and not get the information to people. Transparency is being sought at all levels to avoid access to information. Still, people feel that way. Why is that? If 90 percent of the media are behind the ruling party, standing there, supporting them in everything, why do people feel that? Isn't there a reason to feel that way? No, because they see a lack of political will to eradicate corruption. [[13.40]] Yeah, there's a chance we could make a difference. The political will should change in the fact that there is a need to establish a corruption prosecutor's office in Hungary. Yes, the Jobbik for Hungary Movement has been fighting for years to have an independent corruption prosecutorship, which is really acting with serious tools in Hungary, in the same way as everyone else. And there is the European Public Prosecutor's Office, to which we have not joined again. This is once again a step on the part of the government that clearly supports the desire to make EU money also opaque and does not allow an independent organisation to see through and see what EU public funds are being used for in Hungary. This is also a very serious problem, and again, it is not the problem of the Attorney General, but the problem of a two-thirds majority, why they do not allow it. Of course, they always say that we should not, because they will intervene in Hungary's internal affairs, and this will seriously affect Hungary's sovereignty. Interestingly, does that not violate the sovereignty of the other 23 countries? There are only two countries who have not signed outside of us, who, on the other hand, have concluded the Treaty when they associate with the European Union that they are involved in certain judicial matters, which is also included, will not participate in international cooperation. We are perhaps, I think, the only people in the European Union who have not joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office without such a condition. That is why corruption, the feeling, is also overwhelming in Hungary. This should be changed in any way, Mr Attorney General, and, yes, serious measures should be taken by the investigating authority in Hungary today. I think that until we see a change in that, we can't accept the D.A.'s report. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-02-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP Group, chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2021-12-02-49	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, once again, to greet the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, and their co-workers, and to begin my speech with a quote in Latin, with the same quote that Károly Becsó said, I would only take it from a different point of view: "Iustitia est regnorum"; in my translation, the law is the footstone of the countries. Ladies and Gentlemen, This inscription on the Palace of Justice was visible opposite the Parliament's Palace of Justice, and it was visible until the Communists engraved these letters on it. It's written! They were described because they were disturbed, disturbed by the fact that the law is the foundation stone of the countries. The Communists believe that violence and the proletarian dictatorship bring justice, but we, on the part of the Fidesz-KDNP, believe that justice and the rule of law bring about justice. That is why I would like to thank Mr Attorney General and the entire judicial organization for their support for the rule of law in Hungary despite the political attacks, despite the unworthy voices. Thank you for your work. And the other quote that I would like to put to your heart is:, legum omnes servi sumus ut liberi esse possimus. This means in Hungarian translation that we are all servants of the law so that we can be free. I am very pleased that the prosecution's proceedings in Hungary today mean this freedom of the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen. The law assumes justice, and justice requires that everyone receive his right. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what I said in my Commission President's Expo, but I would like to stress in any case that the prosecutor's organisation did its work in a legal way in 2020, keeping the requirements of timeliness. In addition to the above, the Public Prosecutor's Office has carried out its duties under the new Code of Criminal Procedure continuously and fully, and has adapted its system of organisation accordingly. In addition, it is also very important to stress once again that the prosecution's performance in 2020 was 98,9 percent. Unprecedented! Congratulations on your performance. [[Gergely Arató: In the time of Rákosi...]] It is not in Rakosi's time; it is only the established rule of law, my honourable fellow Member. I wish you further success in your work, good health and the blessing of the Lord. The KDNP faction supports the General Prosecutor's report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office in 2020 and the proposal for a decision of the Judicial Committee. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2021-12-02-50	Thank you very much, Mr President, my fellow Member. Dear Parliament, I'd give you the floor, but you're not in the room... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély enters the room and takes the place of his representatives.]] Yes, he has. Go ahead, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-12-02-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and I apologize, I was just talking to a journalist.
u2021-12-02-52	Go ahead, Congresswoman.
u2021-12-02-53	The journalist came from Japan if two sentences were allowed. It is very interesting when people from this part of the world are trying to meet pro-government politicians and opposition politicians. We talked about the political situation and basically talked about today's debate and yesterday's parliamentary debate. We are now here in Parliament in relation to the professional activities of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in 2020. In recent years, I think I may have not been here for one or two of these reports, I have always tried to participate in these reports and, above all, to listen to the Attorney General because we have common affairs with the Attorney General. As every year, when discussing the report on professional activity in 2020, the Hungarian Socialist Party notes that it is important to thank the employees of the prosecutor's organisation, those who contribute fairly to Hungarian law enforcement cannot be said and emphasized enough. A number of data from the report reflect the fact that, in view of the improvements made in a number of categories of crime, thanks should be paid to the staff. I think I've said the positive part here, and that's when the critical part about the report and the things related to the prosecutor will come. The report mentions that in de-cember 2020, the Central Detective Attorney General's Office conducted a coordinated operation against an Deputy State Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry on page 21. Against the high-ranking state leader indicted, only criminal supervision was ordered first, but later it was even removed, so that he could defend himself on parole. It is not clear, then, how the D.A.'s office has chosen to file a motion for a preliminary arrest. While opposition defendants are usually immediately arrested in the event of the most vague suspicions, accompanied by handcuffs in front of the cameras, we have seen a lot of them in recent years, while government representatives allow me to list some of them: Roland Mengyi, Flórian Farkas, György Simonka, István Happily, though, three of these gentlemen are members of Parliament who are on parole and even continue to work as parliamentary representatives during the proceedings. The indictment has been steadily increasing since 2013, with the highest value recorded for the last ten years and stands at 98.9 percent. [[13.50]] Although efficiency can be a good measure of the prosecution's activity, this efficiency in advanced democracies is completely unknown. The 95,9 percent measured in 2012 was an extremely high result, but 98,9 percent in 2020 already indicates that the prosecutor's position has become the full ruler, which is becoming less and less relevant to the contrary judicial judgment. Although the number of registered offences continued to decrease in 2020, there is an increase in certain categories of offences. This is mostly in the case of intentional, completed manslaughter, attempted murder, smuggling of people, offences related to the cash-exchange payment instrument, money laundering, information systems or data breaches, corruption and military crimes. How do you see the reason why the number of completed homicides increased significantly from 60 to 81 and the number of attempted murders from 57 to 90? What do you intend to do to significantly reduce the number of traffic offences from the current year's up to 19 thousand? In 2020, the prosecution continued to reject the complaint in a number of cases of 1569. What is the reason why the prosecutor's organisation refuses to act in 15 percent of the reports? Due to the difficulties in measuring corruption offences, the number of registered crimes in addition to the assessment of a country's state of corruption and the measurement of the perception of corruption can also be relevant. However, when interpreting perception indices, it cannot be ignored that they are not based on objective data and use concepts which cannot be interpreted within the framework of criminal proceedings. Unfortunately, despite the repeated communication of their professionally justified counter-opinion, the European Commission repeatedly referred in the year 2020 to the fact that, according to public opinion polls, the fight against high-level corruption in Hungary is inadequate. The claim was also published in the European Commission's 2020 country report and in the 2020 rule of law report. The concept of high-level corruption does not exist in criminal law or criminal statistics, nor does the European Commission define it, nor does it collect such statistical data. In the media, however, criminal proceedings that are identified by the public as high-level corruption cases often occur and raise a great deal of dust. Hungarian society does feel that the number of domestic corruption acts is extremely high. In many cases, a substantial investigation has not been launched, for example, and after the suspicious purchase of land by the mayor of District V, there was no procedure last month, so it is no wonder that there is a different sense of corruption. Why don't you take action in these cases? How is it possible for society to see the extent of corruption so differently and in a different way the prosecutor's office to pursue it? After the local elections in 2019, a number of local government leaders filed complaints on suspicion of criminal offences in respect of contracts concluded in the previous cycle. What is the reason why almost all of these cases have been rejected by the prosecution or no substantive progress has been made? The Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office decided after more than a month on the atrocities at the public media headquarters on 16 December and 17 December 2019. We have spoken very much within Parliament's walls, however, about the events that took place in December 2018 and January 2019. We have asked a lot of questions to the Attorney General here in Parliament. According to the D.A.'s statement, the Members of Parliament did not act as an official in the headquarters of MTVA, because they did not conduct official proceedings, but their appearance and movement from the outset were intended to interrupt live programmes by reading political demands and disrupting the schedule. Since then, the claim has been found to be untenable. The court in first instance changed the property protection decision of the Óbuda notary in December last year, which was requested and rejected by MTVA against opposition MPs. It also follows from the judgment that opposition politicians could not have been thrown out of the building. Once again, the politicisation of the prosecution has become clear, which Peter Polt regularly asks for here inside and outside the walls of Parliament. This case shows how the Attorney General serves the given power, the Government of Viktor Orbán. There is another matter that we have talked about a lot, and we need to talk about it, and we will also discuss the events that took place in MTVA's headquarters. I have been involved in this myself, and I think there are three opposition politicians here, Bence Tordai and Congressman Arató. Personally, I was there when my fellow Member László Varju was beaten and dragged. In fact, I have a visual of you being beaten, too. I have also filed a complaint, but it has also been rejected, whether the investigation or further steps, but we hope that someday history will fully justify us. The second case concerns the Hungarian state institutions: the resellers selling Microsoft licenses came very cheaply thanks to discounts received from Microsoft, but the discount was not passed on to the final customer. Their profit margin was so high that there was no rational explanation for that, unless the profit was bribed by public decision-makers, and the company was informed. That's only hypothetical, of course, but there was enough suspicion to allow Microsoft to investigate first. They fired their leaders at the time. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has also purchased Microsoft licenses in these two years, with a total gross value of HUF 236.5 million. The licence supplier was T-Systems, one of Microsoft's domestic resellers, all four times. On 23 August 2019, the Central Detective Attorney General ordered an investigation. There's been a report before. In October 2018, Péter Polt informed me that he had been rejected in the absence of suspicion of a criminal offence. Despite the investigation, no one has ever been questioned by the D.A. in the Microsoft scandal. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, MP, answered the question asked by Péter Polt in January 2020, which I just read. We know a lot of cases, and they've made lists of cases we've filed in recent years. I also addressed written questions to the Attorney General in 2020 and also in 2021. In 2020, I contacted Mr. Attorney General in connection with the epidemic situation. In essence, what irritated me very, very much, and I can say, in the situation that the Hungarian Government allowed, I sought Mr. Attorney General in particular how it could have happened that sports events were closed everywhere in the world, they were banned everywhere so that spectators could participate, although the organisation of football matches was linked to one of them, not to a closed goalkeeper, but to the organisation of participants. Although I have been accustomed in recent years to take these written questions as a complaint by the Attorney General, to forward them to the appropriate authority, in some cases the authority immediately rejects the investigation, in other cases begins to investigate, but these cases are closed without any substantial efficiency. Many voters ask that this method is effective on the part of Members, that although we do do the written questions, it often ends up being reported, but we usually see cases closed at 100%, they find nothing that there is any result. I think, yes, there will be results. One. It is our duty to indicate to the bodies and to the Supreme Prosecutor's Office that, if we are already talking about the prosecutor's report, it is the duty of the Members of Parliament to reveal these cases, try to identify them, signal them to the appropriate authorities, precisely because when you fail in 2022, we should have a reference to the fact that we have taken these steps, that these cases can be brought forward and that they are properly investigated. [[14.00]] In recent years, I think that we have always made the same criticisms about Mr. Attorney General and their operation. We see the practice of cementing the fate of these people in important positions, but I think that we opposition representatives must still stand up and say our criticism, we must say our proposals, and naturally, as in recent years, we will not be able to accept this report. Thank you very much, Mr President, and for your patience.
u2021-12-02-54	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-12-02-55	Dear House, Mr. Attorney General. It's only five months away. Thank you very much. [[Delight and applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2021-12-02-56	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact... [[For signal:]] I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Balczó for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-02-57	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. I wasn't expecting such a lakonic, short speech as the lead speaker. I, myself, would like to comment on one question, the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I myself submitted a parliamentary resolution proposal for Hungary to join him. Two of the arguments against this are fundamental. One is that the sovereignty of the country does not allow this accession. Well, we know that only EU money and cross-border VAT matters can the European Public Prosecutor's Office investigate and ultimately prosecute the national courts. Another reason they refer to is that Laura Codruța Kövesi is anti-Hungarian, because in Romania she also launched proceedings against Hungarian politicians. In this way, Mr. Attorney General could also be called anti-Hungarian, since the prosecution has launched an investigation against Hungarian MPs and is pressing charges. So these are not valid reasons. I would add that out of the 12 countries that have joined since 2004, everyone has joined with the exception of Hungary and Poland; Croatia, so hard to fight its sovereignty with a bloody civil war, does not say that we are losing our sovereignty. And the main reason is that we would make it clear that we are pursuing the legality of the use of EU money. And another addition: I was a MEP when 16 countries called for enhanced cooperation to establish the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course, everyone voted against, Fidesz-KDNP representatives did not want to vote for others to set up the prosecutor's office, they abstained. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-02-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm gonna ask if someone else wants to take a two-minute stand. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda. Here you go.
u2021-12-02-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Mr. Attorney General. Allow us to take your account of your so-called work as seriously as you take your task seriously. Fortunately, it cannot be denied that some of his colleagues take the persecution of classical crimes seriously, but that you do not take your oath seriously in the least, but consider it your main task to smooth out, cover up, sweep under the carpet, and even more and more appear to be involved in the corruption network known as Fidesz by the Hungarian electorate, so that does not give us any reason to take your report seriously and to hold a professional debate about it. In fact, the only thing worth talking about here is that during your main prosecutor's activity, corruption in Hungary has risen to unprecedented heights and has become an unprecedented organization; it can be spotted by someone who doesn't pay attention. You're the only one in the country who can't sense corruption. And if anyone senses corruption, then you're practically accusing him of being cheated on by his senses. Well, my dear Attorney General, no, Hungarian people are not cheated by their senses; indeed, they feel themselves stealing the state around them. They feel that there is not enough money left for quality public services because it lands in the pockets of criminals near Fidesz. They feel that this is the most unfair redistribution of the world, where the money they take from poor people, the tax they pay, is rich for the super-rich near Fidesz, and you don't have a word for it. So that's why we can't take your work and your report seriously. From now on, I can only explain a little bit more what my colleague Gergely Arató briefly said in that it was five months. If you don't understand, I'll explain what you mean; you mean what everyone who wants to change in Hungary thinks: when Fidesz loses in the parliamentary elections next spring, it will not only be the ruling party and the parliamentary majority here, it will be the verdict of the entire Fidesz regime. And you are one of the pillars of this regime, so please consider that once Fidesz fails the parliamentary election, you will fail with them. So on the day after the election, if you'd be so kind as to submit your resignation and leave your office before the majority of the people who want this change, the democratic will that doesn't want to see you in your chair, will try to cement you into your function for any number of years. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-12-02-60	Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Polt, Attorney General, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Péter Polt: Yes.]] Mr. Attorney General, you have the floor. There you go. Up on the pulpit. We're listening to you.
u2021-12-02-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer the professional points. I couldn't answer non-professionals, because they are either political or abusive. On the one hand, I do not have an official mandate for either, as far as the first one is concerned, and on the other hand, I have the urge to respond, because I believe that I cannot go below a certain level, either as a general prosecutor or as a Hungarian citizen. In the order of comments, let me say a few things. I thank Mr Vejkey very much for his contribution, partly as chairman of the Justice Committee and partly as lead speaker. Of course, I pass the words of praise on to the people in the prosecutor's organization. As far as the professional part is concerned, there has been a very important point about statistics, and the fact is that we are dealing with these problems. By the way, this statistical issue has also been raised in the comments of Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the number of murders of intent, the number of murders of intents completed and remaining in the experimental course. [[14.10]] The truth is, after the committee meeting, I asked the National Institute of Criminology and its Deputy Director to examine the statistics on this, because it was so not in the general picture. What I can tell you right now is that the rise in the report and it's based on the statistics that the prosecution used when preparing the report doesn't reflect the real picture. So there is a statistical problem here, when the data is recorded, at which moment the procedure, when this becomes known to the authorities. In summary, I can say that, in fact, according to our current knowledge, the number of these killings and experiments did not increase in 2020, but rather decreased. Therefore, I apologize, the statistics deceived us, too, but we had to carry out specific research to get this data out, but the reasons for this are still under consideration. Congressman Charles Becsó quoted Justinianos. I think that a prosecutor's organisation that doesn't respect the past and doesn't keep the eternal truths rooted in the past can't work effectively in the present either. Hungary's prosecutorship has just celebrated its 150-year anniversary, which has concluded the adoption of the first prosecutor's law, but of course the principles of law that have been developed under Justinian, for example, we consider important, we take into account and follow and act on the basis of legality. By the way, Justinianus also said that state security is the highest law. Today, we can translate this in such a way that the security of the state and its citizens can be guaranteed by law, and these laws must in all respects be respected by the prosecution. I was also pleased to hear from Mr Becsó about his mention of the Institute of Criminology. This is unique, I think, in the world, that a prosecutor's organization has an independent research institute, which researches criminal law so widely, at a high level, and also helps the daily application of law to work more effectively and in accordance with the law, not only in accordance with the letter and spirit of the law, so the work is directly assisted by the Institute of Criminology. I've just given you this example about the statistics on manslaughter. Mr Gyüre mentioned a number of things, which are of a political nature, of course I cannot answer, but he himself mentioned that this is not the prosecution's desk or the Attorney General's table, but which may even be relevant, they want an answer, and I am trying to do so. As far as the prosecution is concerned, I can honestly tell you that I myself find it surprising. Years ago, in preparation for the next year's report in this regard, I have always said that this is probably the last year, that this is rising and that it can no longer rise from here. It wasn't up to me. It was another statistical issue. The statistics may be wrong here too, I don't know, but the trend is definitely there, so there's a high level of indictment. In addition, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said that there is no such thing in the world that there is such a high level of indictment. It could be a compliment, he didn't mean it. However, I would like to take a look at the data from which the congresswoman worked, and with which countries she compared the results of the Hungarian prosecution, we could learn from this. Corruption crimes have been spoken of or spoken of by many speakers. I do not want to repeat myself, nor do I want to repeat what is included in the report, in the report submitted in writing, but there were comparisons with various countries; for example, it was also said by Mr Gyüre, not by Congressman, but it was said later, although Mr Gyüre may have mentioned it, but it was probably also mentioned by a Member, that Hungary was ranked back here with Bulgaria, Romania. Here's the problem with what data we're comparing with what data again. The absolute numbers can be shown in each country, but the question is how these absolute numbers come out, and if we have the result, then we can compare them, or we can go as if we compare apples with pears. So I do not think at all that, knowing the performance of the various countries in this area... and I now make it clear once again that from a criminal, criminal, law enforcement point of view, we would have anything to be ashamed of, even in this area. Yeah, we can do better, I'm sure we can, we can strive for it, but we have nothing to be ashamed of, that's for sure. And then even Romania, Slovakia, in this context, without wanting to criticize the relations there... because not only am I not an officer, but I have no right to criticize it, but to compare it, if comparisons have already been made here, it can be. Congressman Gyure mentioned the change or change in the prosecution's criminal policy. There is no such independent criminal policy in the prosecution's office. There is a criminal policy, which, by the way, is essentially rooted in the legislation, in which Parliament defines it, so this body, as a branch of the government, is the right criminal policy, and the prosecutor's office must follow and follow it. Of course, within the legislative framework, we also try to put emphasis on the most vulnerable areas, in line with our room for manoeuvre. It is no coincidence that I, too, gave great space to it in the written report, and in my oral comment that corruption acts are a very important area, yes, a problem, but I do not see it and I do not think that this problem in Hungary is so far behind all the other countries. Mr. Congressman said that from 2010... yes, I know world statistics, I know I would like to talk about such statistics if this were possible, and otherwise the State Audit Office of Hungary has presented a very interesting compilation of how these statistics are produced. This is remarkable, and I suggest that anyone who is interested in this issue is studying it, because it also comes out of how it can be quite easily misdirected in this area. [[14.20]] Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned that since 2010, corruption cases have been lifted twice as much as before. I tell you every year, not only in the report, it's a miscommunication. That's not true. The opposite is true. Indeed, once such news appeared, it is true, we immediately denied, we said that it was not true, but it is simply impossible to eliminate it from public thinking, and everyone always refers to it. That's not true, Congressman, believe me. If you want to know the details of this, I'd be happy to write that down for you. Generally speaking, it is true that in this respect, too, the scope of corruption, where the victim is not an individual or an independent legal person, is specific. At your sub-privacy, the congressman mentioned that he couldn't prove himself because he didn't have the means. He doesn't have any, but if a substitute private is brought before the court, the court will order the evidence and the authorities will carry it out. That's why the second-incarcerator has the means. Of course, you're right about the case being brought to court, if that's possible. Here it was said, perhaps, that Mr Becsó mentioned that you have very few spare private rights before the courts. But it's talkative that what goes there is unsuccessful in the same proportion as the prosecution's success in the prosecution's prosecution. But it's not because they can't prove it, the court can do it, you can do it for them. Mr. Congressman, you've dealt a lot with the law, the various laws. I wouldn't comment on that. But there are people here that are involved in the prosecution's office. He mentioned the issue of complaint law. If you look into it, you'll see that if you're not a prosecutor in the victim's position, you don't have a right to complain. This is an explanation and a logical provision, but it is his legislative table, and he has to explain it. However, our practice is, and this is usually the case, that when there is any doubt, no matter where the complaint comes from, we are not doing this by formally rejecting the complaint. We formally reject the part of the complaint that it does not come from the rightholder, but that we will review the practice or the case on its own initiative, and that what the complaint would have originally addressed would have happened if it had come from the rightholder. I'm not saying that it's always the case, but in cases where there's doubt, it's definitely the case. Congressman mentioned the Corruption Prosecutor's Office as a necessary body. Of course it can be like that. Once again, it's up to the legislator to do this or not to do it. Practices, models, even in neighbouring countries, should be monitored. What we're seeing right now is a week or two ago, a prosecutor from the Romanian Corruption Prosecutor's Office was taken on suspicion of corruption, and it's a pretty serious corruption crime. We also see that political debates are taking place in Romania, and this is also leaking from politics to the law about who is subordinate to whom, what instructions can be given, what powers are in place, and the various organisations there are fighting against each other. So what I'm saying is, I'm sure there's good practice, but let's also be careful what bad practices are. And as I said, in Romania, it is reported that someone has just been taken from the Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Not long ago, the head of the Slovak corruption prosecution was arrested on suspicion of serious corruption. Interestingly, in either case, although I have not seen the various foreign echoes, it has caused any kind of echo anywhere, either in the European Union or in other organisations. Not to mention the fact that the Member said, for example, how successful the anti-corruption prosecutor's office in Romania or how successful other prosecutor's bodies are. I can say that since many people here have sprung Latin quotes to say that ab abusu ad usum non valet consequentia. So illegal law can't bring legal results if I'm free to translate it. It is not possible to detect by illegal means, to deal with matters in which the law should be represented by the party. I note that it has also been said, perhaps on behalf of Mr Balczó, that objections have been raised against the Head of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I don't think he had any objections in Hungary. I'm talking professional excuses. The question of who you're prosecuting is once again a political issue that I obviously cannot and will not interfere with. But there is no doubt that he has been prosecuted several times in Romania, precisely because of what I have just quoted in the Latin saying, because DNA has used illegal means to its proceedings, and they have been brought to justice in an illegal way, perhaps even condemned. I don't think that's an example for us. I don't know if that's what happened, because I don't know the verdict, and I can't give you an opinion on anyone until a final judgment has been reached. But let's be careful that there are mazes in this, which would not be good for us to get involved in, in my professional opinion, because my personal opinion here does not, of course, matter at all and is not important. Here comes the corruption rankings again. It was said that we are on the same level as Romania and Bulgaria. Then they told me how successful Romania was with DNA. Then how come we're still on the same level if they're so successful in pursuing corruption? That's a question that comes up. Once again, I don't know, because I didn't examine it, I'm just saying what I read in the press about it, or as a professional, it came to my attention. So, you have to be careful with these grades, because we're not sure we're gonna get the right results. Once again, it is a political decision to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office or not to join it. That's right. Not only did you mention it, but also Mr Balczó mentioned it. But that is an undisputed fact, and this cannot be disputed, that just in 2020, when the European Public Prosecutor's Office started operating and the organisation stood up, because only after it started operating, we were the ones with whom Mrs Kövesi discussed the first. I myself negotiated with him through a video conference in 2020, and we agreed to conclude a cooperation agreement. [[14.30]] This was also done in 2021, only among the countries that did not join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I think we can be proud of that as a prosecutor's office. Not only is such an agreement on paper, but it is not the subject of the current report, but we are the ones who have already cooperated with the European Public Prosecutor's Office in practice on a case involving Germany, where there were German and Hungarian links. Yes, we have cooperated with the EPPO, and I think we have achieved a good result. So we've got this opportunity, we're using it, and we want to take advantage of it. To Congressman Vejkey, I only think that he quoted Justinian's saying, along with Mr Becsó, from a different perspective, and that we have chosen the slogan of the prosecutor's office for a reason, and that we hold ourselves to it, and in this context we have both in mind in every case. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély partly already spoke about how I would answer her questions about the Deputy State Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry. He was charged in 2021, not only with a State Secretary, but also with his successor, so the prosecutor's office filed charges against two Deputy State Secretarys. So I don't know what high-level corruption is, if that's what it is, then we can say that two Deputy State Secretarys from the same place have fallen under it. If the level is lower, other examples could be given. Somebody tell me where this line is, and we'll do the statistics accordingly, but only the statistics, because we don't generate the cases, but the perpetrators do. But here, the Congresswoman raised a very important issue, the issue of emergency measures, and mentioned the three Members from the government side, against whom proceedings were also taking place. Indeed, there has been no forced action against them restricting personal freedom. This is because there was no particular reason for the coercive measures, and there is an explanation for this. The explanation is that they have immunity. The immunity motion must be tabled, the immunity motion must be decided, that is a lot of time, the particular reasons for the forced action restricting personal freedom will be removed. Other coercive measures may, of course, be and are, for example, financial coercive measures. But if he doesn't escape in the process, if it's enough time to get rid of the evidence at any time, what reason would the court have for arresting him? It's vanishing, and it can't be done. What is a good solution, I think, is Parliament's table, and you have to figure it out. Prosecution. Then, says the congresswoman, there is no room for judicial consideration, since the indictment is so high. Yes, there is. But of course, the important thing is where the stage of proof is, you can prove it in the investigative phase. Perhaps, according to the new rules of criminal procedure, yes, it is possible, and then the decision can be made at the preparatory meeting. This is good for everyone, so it accelerates the process, good for society, and good for the perpetrator, because they make the decision against him quickly. It is important that in this case, if there is any doubt, it must be negotiated, and there must also be evidence in court. So here we have the safeguards, and I think they're important. I was talking about manslaughter, and the congresswoman wasn't in there, and it seems that there has been a statistical error and that there has not been an increase in the number of homicides, but rather a decrease. After the committee meeting, we launched an investigation into this. I was talking about high-level corruption; I was talking about perception in my introductory sentences. As far as the MTV headquarters are concerned, the court will decide on a single charge, obviously he will say the final word; the proceedings against the others have been terminated. As for Microsoft, the procedure is in progress. I must say that this is a procedure whose success depends greatly on the responses to foreign legal aid, and we are not in a good position to do so. We're not in a good position, but it's not up to us, it's up to foreign partners. It is well known that Microsoft was agreed in the United States that they would be released from being held accountable for a high level of fines, and that could affect us. I do not wish to talk to Mr harvesto, and he did not wish to talk to me, which would be perfectly right if I were a private person, but I am here representing Hungary's prosecutor. I have answered your questions about EPPO, Mr Balczó. The same applies to Mr Tordai, on behalf of Mr Arato. Thank you very much for your comments. We use those that were meaningful, and I can promise you that the prosecution will continue to work legally in the future. I wish you all well and, above all, good health. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-02-62	I would like to thank the Attorney General for his reply to what was said in the debate. Allow me to wish you good health from here, and to thank your colleagues for their work and participation. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2021-12-02-63	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, First of all, I would like to thank you for giving a really exhaustive answer to the questions raised in the debate, despite the fact that these questions, to say the same thing every year, come back with the same questions, they do not contain any novum. I could also say that there was no new thought on the part of opposition speakers, only the old, false record was put up again and said so. In the meantime, however, there was a change. The change is that not only was this false record, but they also threatened the Attorney General. Well, here in Parliament's plenary it was said that if you don't resign by the deadline, then the proletariat will come and cancel the Attorney General. So it's amazing what happened, and I reject such manifestations. Another strange situation has arisen: a trap has been set for the Attorney General. This ambush has been expressed by explicitly asking political questions to the Attorney General. The Attorney General, the independent Attorney General, cannot answer political questions because he can provide legal answers, but there is no legal answer to political questions. [[14.40]] So what I can tell you is that he was provoked. They provoked Mr. Attorney General with these questions, but thank God, Mr. Attorney General, thank you for your dignity, neutrality and the way you dealt with these issues and strengthened the Hungarian rule of law here in Parliament with your presence and your contribution. Thank you very much. I wish you further success and good health in your work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2021-12-02-64	Thank you, Mr President, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted today, until 16:00. I would like to thank the Attorney General and his colleagues once again for their participation in this debate. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Kálló, from the Jobbik Group, with the title of our common affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-02-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 29 January 2021 Péter Szijjártó announced Hungary's largest greenfield project here in Budapest, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and announced that the SK Innovation Battery Factory was building a plant in Iváncsa. Iváncsa is known to have 2,800 inhabitants, while the factory employs 2,500 people. The area on which this factory is built is 30 crowns of gold, so with excellent agricultural properties, we can produce food from 10 golden crowns. It is also important to know that the regional development concept of the General Assembly of Fejér County includes the need to support investments in the brownfield instead of greenfield investments. Now come to see how much this factory will be built for: brutal Hungarian average man, incomprehensible amount: 680-700 billion forints. Indeed, ordinary people don't really understand what that means. But we can understand that, and there is already an example of what a factory like this is like in the country. I also have a production unit of SK Innovation in my Komárno, and Samsung Battery Factory in Göd can be an example for the Ivanča and the people in the region. There's bad news coming from every factory unit, especially the pit. They do not respect the limits of noise and environmental pollution, they have changed the ethnic composition of the region, and they cause a great deal of annoyance to the people living there despite the high trade tax. Now hold on: a single residential forum was held in Iváncsa for such a large investment. One! So the fact was decided, and the people who lived there could not express an opinion. Let's add that the coronal virus also intervened in this, but the inhabitants could not give an opinion, and they were tried through a single public forum by the , tried to, I would stress six times about the factory and the consequences of the relocation. There were some interesting things going on there. We didn't see any credible official impact assessments, we don't know they exist. When they talked about noise pollution, the drinkers who lived there, who were not professionals, but laymen, could disprove item by item what the experts said. When one of the most important questions was raised to the representatives of SK Innovation there, a rather ridiculous answer was given to those interested. The question was what nationality people work in the Komárom factory. This is an important question of who we live with in the neighbourhood, the Middle East, the Mongolians, the Ukrainians. That's an important question. Do you know what the SK Innovation representative's response was? 90 percent of the workers live within a 50-mile radius. Lives! Yeah, that's a good answer, a reassuring answer for everyone. So we do not know that there are official case studies, impact studies on what such a large factory means in such a small settlement, in such an area. But that's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that if they existed or existed, say, in connection with the Gödi or Komárom factory, such studies before construction, and if we compare them now with the damage caused by the operation, what results would we get. Because I may even be able to write such reports, perhaps even with my colleague Gyure, we could write wonderful reports that there will be no pollution here, there will be no noise pollution, there will be no ethnic change in the region, and I can write such reports. But let us consider from the experience of the two factories that these requirements in the case studies have been fulfilled! Finally, I would like to say that I would like to reassure the Iváncsai that I will do so in writing to the competent ministry, where I will make a detailed request and ask the Minister about these case studies and their practical comparison. Thank you for listening. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2021-12-02-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ádám Steinmetz also applied for a post-meeting speech, but unfortunately he is not in the Chamber, so that his speech after his agenda cannot take place. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda, and I thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Thank you for your cooperation.
