u2021-05-26-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 24th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Attila Gelencsér will arrive later in the session and that I will be assisted by Mr. Dezső Liberty. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Two days ago, I was about to tell you about inflation, about the fact that inflation in Hungary rose to 5.2 percent in April, and we jumped to the top of the European Union. Hungarian inflation is two and a half times higher than the average of the European Union, and the government does not have the means to reduce this inflation. But that's not what I'm going to talk about this time, because I've been swept away. Yesterday, I witnessed Peter James' speech before the agenda, in which he criticized Speaker Fat for taking the floor away from him a week ago. Mr. Speaker Fat once again took the floor from him, claiming that, according to the house rules, no one has the right to criticize the speaker's activities. Well, I have to admit, I haven't done house rules very often in years, and I'm not a lawyer. However, I can say firmly, and I know that it is not possible in democracy, so unthinkable that the activities of a person with a public mission cannot be criticised. [[Robert Szigó: Start acting nice!]] So if the work of Speaker Fat cannot be criticized, then it must be said that democracy does not prevail within the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's been a while. It hasn't worked out for a long time.]] I mean, Citizen Fat is more equal than any other citizen. In Orwell's words, "All animals are equal," but some animals are more equal than others. I said this in English because, in recent days, there has been a great demand for speaking in English, so I was able to tell you this in English. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] But to make it clear on the pro-government side that people who claimed to be Christians, what it is about: well, I've been a Christian since I was a kid, not just a few years ago, I was a Christian when I came from your benches: * Chucks, on my knees! They were making words of command, and I was. I read the Bible regularly, and the Bible says that it is the Creator God who is omniscient and omnipotent and is the embodiment of absolute good. So we ordinary mortals, however, are sinful souls who make mistakes, and our job is to try to eliminate these mistakes and to commit as few sins as possible. Well, there are two options in this particular situation. If we maintain and if you maintain that Fat House Speaker cannot be criticized, then either the power of László Kövér comes from God and is the ruler of the Almighty on earth, therefore untouchable, his activity cannot be critical; or what I have already said is that democracy is not in the Parliament. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Democracy has not been established in ten years.]] But if the responding Secretary of State does not accept these two options, but continues to insist that there is democracy here, then I would like to ask him to please tell me what Fidesz intends to do in order to curb the Speaker of the House acting like a runaway cannon. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We believe that James Peter... is an intervention in the pro-government benches.]] and persuades him to comply with the universal rules of democratic co-existence, as he would be subject to these principles. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-2	Honourable Congressman, I did not wish to intervene in your speech, but I must inform you that, obviously, Secretary of State, you have done nothing for four minutes but criticize the rule that this House has adopted. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] ; and rejected the rule of the house that the entire Parliament had accepted. Secretary of State, you have the floor. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: What you've been given the floor for, you refuse!
u2021-05-26-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If you'd allow me, I'd only react briefly. Everyone in this country is entitled to freedom of expression and expression. There is one limit: human dignity must be respected and the rules of the system of opposition must be respected. Everyone who acknowledges these limits is free to work here, within the walls of Parliament. Interestingly, this is not a problem for the vast majority of 199 Members. It's such a simple story. By the way, if you'll allow me, one more comment to this: the right is not the one who is playing sports to silence dissidents. This is fashionable on the left; allow me, if you have mentioned this question, then I should also mention that today is the fifteen-year anniversary of the autumn speech, which was exactly about it! that on the left, on the left, which is united in an alliance in the 2022 elections, and that you are a member of this alliance, on the one hand, lied, clearly lied; on the other hand, against the related free expression of opinion, they are conducting a cavalry attack. This is the message of the fall speech. And the left hasn't changed since then. We've been hearing from your allies ever since that they threaten dissidents, threaten journalists, and threaten anyone who refuses to join the line you define. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Breaking into editorials.]] , which is a series of suicide governments between 2002 and 2010, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány. And if you'll allow me to see how much your credit is worth in this context:, I didn't want to co-operate with the Socialists or DK, after all, I am a right-wing conservative man. I'm sorry, I don't want to go into theological discussion. I don't know what the Bible says about that. I know one thing: you weren't telling the truth then, you're not telling the truth now. You need to do a self-examination, not point it at someone else. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Let's talk about the facts. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Unfortunately, in the last few days, the court has concluded a dispute on ownership. This ownership dispute was about the ownership of some of the apartments in Budavar; the parties were the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the municipality of Budavár. This case has a multi-annual history. The trial began during the mayorship of Tamás Nagy Gábor Nagy. It has just come to the end of this story, in which the court has given the truth to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is there a rule of law or no rule of law?]] But why am I bringing this up in front of Parliament? Because the result of this decision is a very fine example of why the municipal housing system is important. [[9.10]] And then let's get in line. We are talking about practically eight apartments, eight families whose housing was assured, but it is true that the municipality led by Gábor Tamás Nagy has already rented apartments in these real estates during the trial. I think it was not a fortunate decision on its part, because the future of the real estate, we can say, was uncertain in a legal sense, but yet we saw that the homes managed by the municipality provided housing for families in Buda. (Gelencsér Attila takes his place in the notary seat. ) What happens now after the court ruling? What happened was that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences overnight raised the local government rent to market rent, which means that these families can pay about 15-20 times the amount so far as rent. It is a strange source of fate and the operation of the court that it has clearly stated that the municipality of Buda does not have an obligation to accommodate the residents concerned. Obviously, these families cannot pay the horriable amount that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is trying to collect on them, but this perfectly shows how important it is for a municipality to be able to lend a helping hand to families in need. And you guys, with the bill that you've been discussing today, are trying to break down the housing bill, destroy the municipal housing system. But let's face it, if there weren't a local government tenement system, there wouldn't be a sufficient number of tenements owned by the municipality, then you wouldn't be able to help these unfortunate countrymen, even though they were in a situation that wasn't at fault, which, unfortunately, ends with the fact that they are now either paying the Academy of Sciences 15 times the rent or the municipality is helping them. Thank God, Budavár's local government is giving these families a helping hand, and we have already made a clear agreement with a family. I think it is worth stopping for a moment on this point, in any case, that the sentence that your mayor was entitled to this law, that it was a bullshit and that it was done on Facebook, but I think that László Kövér will take the initiative at Facebook to punish Mr. Mayor... but that this is not bullshit, this is a crime, this is an inexorable crime because of the destruction of Hungarian housing. I think we haven't discussed this law yet, they still have time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] To withdraw this whole stupid and stupid law. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar applauds.]]
u2021-05-26-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to point out one thing from his point of view that this bill has not yet been discussed by the Parliament today, so when he uses such words for this bill and it is not a law, as you say, that he will beat me up and destroy me, I think he is hasty and exaggerating. Let us wait for the debate on the bill, let us wait for the amendments tabled, and let us wait for what the government will support and then give an opinion on what this bill will lead to, and what exactly is the purpose of, this bill. I would like to stress that, over the past ten years, the government has taken a number of measures within the framework of the family protection and home-building programme to solve and facilitate housing problems and problems of Hungarian families. Our goal is to make sure that every Hungarian family has their own home, as far as possible, in line with the social need. With the acquisition and support of own-owned housing, the government aims to promote long-term, stable housing for families. And why is that? Because simply the Hungarian man likes to live in his own and live in his own. Of course, there are situations in which you need to live in other-owned homes, but a well-thinking family always has in mind how to move out, move over, how to achieve its own existence, i.e. its own home. This is how Fidesz-KDNP governance over the past ten years promotes this kind of civic family thinking. The first important step was to get the Hungarian families out of the foreign exchange credit crisis, to relieve them of the unnecessary burden that the socialist governments had put on them by pushing them into taking on the foreign currency loan. By creating this, it was possible for hundreds of thousands of families to use government subsidies to facilitate the construction of their apartments, the purchase of their new apartments, or the purchase of apartments using the latest measures, government decisions, the expansion of used homes or the renovation of their homes. Since 2015 until the end of April 2021, 200,000 families have submitted a CSOK request and this is 557 thousand billion for the State. cost you forints. The outstanding high proportion of families could also benefit from preferential housing loans that can be added to the CSOK. Baby shower support is very often used for housing purposes. We're talking about 132,000 loan agreements. We continue to make good decisions for people living in small towns by extending the so-called village CSOK, which meant HUF 110 billion for the people living there. In addition, they also require tax refund support of HUF 11.5 billion. From 1 January 2021, the government's home creation programme was further extended and the preferential flat rate was introduced again. In addition, families with children can buy apartments free of charge. Those who use a CSOK for the apartments purchased will be exempt from tax. We could continue to list the measures, all of which are already known and used by the families concerned. Well, this is the family policy of the current Hungarian government, which is to make sure that every family can get their own apartments as far as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.20]]
u2021-05-26-8	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, MEP, DK Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-9	Dear House, A few days ago [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 15 years.]] German public service media interviewed Hungarian health workers and nurses who were driven out of Hungarian health care at the beginning of the third wave. We are talking about people who have spent 30 to 40 years in health care, and who have been under their noses for employment contracts that have put them in an impossible position, and which have made them unable to continue their work. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You voted in Parliament too!]] And I would like to remind you, Mr Secretary of State, that when this was a debate in Parliament, you said that the detailed rules containing the terms of the contract will be drawn up together with the representatives of health workers, the chambers, but of course you lied, and that was not the case. Health workers were given conditions where they had to choose between abandoning the beloved profession they had spent their entire lives on, or accepting conditions that would put them in an extremely unfavourable position and make quality work impossible. I could ask you who was the genius who came up with the most important task at the beginning of the epidemic is to remove another skin from the already exploited and difficult health workers. I could ask you who the genius was who invented it in the middle of an epidemic to chase medical personnel off the field. But we know who this genius is, and in Hungary one man decides everything, Viktor Orbán. This is his sin, and you will carry out only his instructions in a servile manner, without thinking or criticizing. And to be clear, this isn't just about health care workers, because you know that an ICU nurse can handle two patients. They can calculate how much the loss of 4,000 medical workers reduced the number of patients who were able to receive adequate care in hospitals. You can also calculate that what you have done is that you have driven out of power arrogance and stupidity the workers who have already done their jobs well, cost thousands of people's lives during the epidemic, because there is no means of dusting the ventilators in the warehouse if there is no man who can handle them. I have to say that you have to account for the death of 30,000 of our fellow countrymen in the epidemic and why Hungary has the highest mortality rate per capita, in Hungarian, why most people died in Hungary in the case of a coronal virus epidemic. And beyond the crimes of the last ten years, beyond the fact that you destroyed and destroyed health care, this measure has a role to play, and you have to take responsibility for it. One of the most important tasks in Hungary after Orbán will be to restore the health care system, which also means to compensate for the huge shortage of staff that you have caused us to attract back doctors, nurses, health workers from abroad and to lure back those who have left this career because of your policies. Klára Dobrev's most important concern for a reason is: [[Csaba Dömötör: Yes.]] that in Hungary we will finally remedy the lack of a doctor and remedy the lack of a nurse, it is no coincidence that one of our most important goals is that with the right wages, with the right conditions [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You've reduced medical wages!]] and with fair employment conditions, we achieve that: [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You've reduced medical wages!]] the medical career should be attractive again, attractive for young people to choose not only medical but also nursing careers and others [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You've made medical education a prize.]] And that those who have fled this place over the last few years because of you have fled the field or fled the country should return. I have to say that if the Prime Minister of Hungary becomes Dobrev Klara, you will be responsible for what you have done, and we will repair the damage you have caused. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Are you threatening me? October 2006?]] Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-26-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You referred to important health decisions in your speech. I would also like to emphasise here that these decisions, which the government has taken, are based on the proposals of the Medical Chamber. Their proposal is based on the fact that medical wages are doubled on average in several waves, and that the government was able to decide, by paying off an old debt, to release the gratuity money, which was an unpleasant moment for so many people. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] And let's not forget the nurses, they're getting a raise of 72 percent in several waves. The next raise wave will be next January, which will be a 30 percent increase. Let me just say here that, if we recall correctly, you voted in favour of the New Status Act. Right, Congressman? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes. Dr. Pál Völner: You were there.]] You voted for it. Compared to what you voted for, it is now a matter of strong criticism, so after one point, there is nothing we can do about it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Real DK.]] The fact that health is the heart of the Democratic Coalition is a matter of heart, however, a few fundamental facts from the past are significantly nuanced. First of all, they put 6,000 doctors on the street when they were in government positions. [[Gergely Harvesto: Come on!]] Between 2010-18, the number of doctors in Hungary increased by 7,000, so it did not decrease as at your time, but increased. This government didn't take their wages, just like you did, but raised their wages. Doctors' wages increased on average by two and a half times. That's what that raise, the new decision I just told you about. If we approach it from the budget side, what I can tell you is that, compared to the time when you, if I understand it correctly, had a heart problem with health care, we spend more than HUF 1700 billion on health care. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Real value?]] 1700! Nor can you argue, honourable Member, that this is a significant increase, not a small increase, but a very large increase. So much for who cares about the health situation. You have taken away, this government has given us significant extra resources, which does not, by any chance, mean that there is much more to be done in the area of health. Moreover, the performance of healthcare is more than anything else demonstrated by the fact that Hungary is leading the way in terms of the number of vaccinations. If a quarter of what you've been saying for months is true, then that wouldn't be possible, then we'd be in the back. Compared to this, the number of vaccinees exceeded 5 million. We stand at more than 50 percent, while the EU average is slightly more than 30 percent, which is a very big difference. So I would also like to thank all health care workers, doctors, nurses, logistics staff, specialists, clinics for participating in this vaccination program, and thus for the protection of all Hungarians. By the way, allow me one more comment, honourable Member: if you were in government now, you would have paid for health care, and it is bad to think about the burden of paying a visitation fee or a daily allowance during an epidemic. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély swings his head.]] Even if you wag your head, honourable Member, you voted in favour of paying health care, only a referendum could derail it. I would like to mention one more thing here, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Today is the anniversary of the autumn speech [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] A speech that made it clear that the post-communists had saved a shameful tradition from decades of dictatorship, that they could lie to their own people in the greatest things. And then we remember not only a hollow lie, but everything that followed: the brutal police attacks, the cynical medal of those responsible, and the brutal political leadership trying to silence those who thought differently about the country's future. Now to say that the people responsible for the autumn speech and the police are among us, that's a very soft speech, because they're not just among us, but they're pushing for power again. Now they're lying differently, now they're putting other people first, but we know that the same faces really want to come back, and their threatening words are the same. [[9.30]] None of your current candidates can separate themselves from the fall speech. Klára Dobrev said a few days ago that she was very, very proud of this speech, Gergely Christmas worked at the time for the Chancellor of Gyurcsány, Peter James, if I recall correctly, in connection with the autumn speech, to sign the man responsible for it. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Vazallus!]] Don't you feel ashamed? You have not apologized for 2006, nor for the lies, nor for attacking your own countrymen. In the absence of this, there are thousands of reasons why, in whatever form the Gyurcsány era wants to sneak back, we should not allow that. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-26-12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech on the subject of current issues. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. When my fellow Member has been talking about house rules and what is the duty of a Member, let me say in a few sentences what is the duty of a member of the government, a secretary of state, where appropriate. When we present our questions before the agenda here, or we address the interpellation, our questions, or we present a written question as opposition representatives, the Secretary of State is obliged to answer the questions asked. In recent times, we can say that they're not really responding to anything. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You don't understand]] You've been on the government for 11 years, and you've been on the government for more than 11 years. And believe me, when my fellow Member spoke in his previous speech about the state of health in Hungary today, I think it would be appropriate for a secretary of state to talk only about the state of health. [[Csaba Dömötör: I talked a lot.]] If we look at what people consider to be one of the most important problems today in Hungary, we can say that the health situation is. Over the past year, we have encountered a situation that none of us may have experienced, and we can say that none of us have met with it in our lifetime: a pandemic has devastated the whole world, and we must tell you how the government has reacted to this epidemic. Miklós Kásler has said interesting sentences in the last few days. I can't tell you in the last year any of the circumstances that we wouldn't have judged correctly. In Hungary there was no ill patient, no one was lying in the corridors of hospitals. Hungary is most likely to receive congratulations, since Hungary is the first to second place among the EU countries in terms of vaccination. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, says that all measures have been correctly judged, another today's news completely dissuades him: the Helsinki Committee has won a lawsuit against the EMMI when they wanted to ask for documentation on the basis of which the minister decided to order the 50 percent and then 60 percent hospital release first in April 2020. What did Minister Kasler do? They will immediately encrypt these documents. In the same way, the study ordered for 350 million forints was also encrypted, which would have been about the transformation of health care in the middle of the epidemic, until today we have not been able to recognize it. I believe that when we talk about the fact that a study involving ten million citizens is being carried out in Hungary because 10 million people are affected by health care today, then ten million citizens have the right to know how the government wants to intervene in the transformation. We could say a lot of things about what the wrong decision was, say, one of the most flawed decisions of last summer was that we spent 300 billion forints on respirators, or we don't even know if the government actually bought a respirator. [[Csaba Dömötör: Jesus! Nacsa Lőrinc: The bottom!]] Or other things, and we spend tens of millions or hundreds of millions of forints at all to guard unopened ventilators. We can talk about the fact that in the summer it was more important for you to yacht, to play the bridge than to prepare for the second wave, and we saw how Hungary was struck by the second wave and then by the third wave, because, dear gentlemen, you are talking about everything within the walls of Parliament, but not about losing almost 30,000 of our countrymen. He never mentions this in any of his speeches, no secretary of state. Ask the relatives of these 30,000 victims how they have lived through the past period. Or ask people who haven't had medical attention in the last year, let's say they haven't had surgery or interfered, because they said that if their condition isn't life-threatening, they won't get treatment. We can talk about a lot of things. Or ask me what I asked you on a written question, Mr Secretary of State, how many people in Hungary have not taken the second vaccination. We only know that someone stands up, Dr. Slávik, and tells us that it is estimated to be about 10 percent in Hungary as well. But you don't answer anything! And, Secretary of State, allow me one more thought that Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer a cynical remark [[Dr. Pál Völner: The whole thing was.]] 'Cause last week, you handed me out to Parliament in plenary that I did not pay due attention: I will pay close attention to your reply, but only when we finally get to the walls of Parliament, Mr Secretary, that you will give a meaningful answer to an opposition representative's speech. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-26-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, answers the question before the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It wasn't in vain to draw attention to the fact that if you do honor us by answering your question here, you might respond to it. Let's say this is further ahead than, say, the fellow Member of Szabó Timea or Lajos Korózs, who stands up at this time and goes out of the room so that he doesn't happen to hear the thoughts that would disturb their thoughts, because they live in a bubble that is bothered by the fact. This is common in liberals and leftists. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You're saying that people, so you don't get enough information about the defense. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the last year, almost every day, members of the operational tribe have attended a press conference and have given the latest information every day. The question came in and the questions could be answered, because the data was available, and everyone could see it every day at the press conference of the operational tribe in front of the entire Hungarian public. We have sought to ensure that everyone has all the information, because the very important basis for the control of the epidemic is trust, that people trust those involved in the defence: doctors, nurses, operational tribes, policemen, soldiers, everyone, and that is based on sharing all the information with each other. And the fact that Hungary has preceded the average of the European Union, and even the United States of America, in grafting, and has been so effective in defending and overcoming the third wave through vaccination, one of the foundations of this was precisely trust, which was based on this information, honourable Member. This is what we have been trying to do from the very first moment, and obviously you have often, and above all, you have political attacks, not professional interests. Obviously, the two must be divided into two, and you will obviously receive a political response to a political attack and a professional response to one's interest, honourable Member. You said it was a huge mistake to prepare hospital beds for receiving patients with a coronary virus. You said for months that there was also a chamomuvide directed by Lajos Korózs, starring Athina Németh, and then a few months passed, and when the epidemic really came, and more and more patients came to hospitals due to the appearance of the British mutant, they said with the same volume why there were no more hospital beds. Of course, there were enough hospital beds, because you did not see a scene in Hungary, thank God, and we thank doctors, nurses and operational tribes for not having hospital beds in Hungary for patients. 'Cause someone may have moved a county or two, but they got a hospital bed, and they took care of everyone, and they fought for everyone's health, everyone's life. And you keep accusing doctors and nurses here in Parliament and in the press, accusing them of having patients who need treatment sent home and died at home, nine out of ten that didn't provide proper care in hospitals. But the most outrageous, honourable Member, in your previous speech was that you said that it was a mistake to buy large quantities of ventilator, honourable Member. What do you think we should do during an epidemic when every country in the world is trying to get a ventilator? ! [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungary was one of the most effective in this, since we were able to obtain so many respirators that even the WHO acknowledged the high rate of respirators in Hungary, and you were arguing with the WHO not only about vaccines. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes, the president rings the bell.]] When people are told not to be vaccinated with Chinese vaccines, for example, they are arguing with the WHO, which acknowledged that Hungary was right to over-confident itself, because, you know, honourable Member, it is better to have more breathing machines than one, two or three are missing where they should be. [[9.40]] It's incredibly irresponsible. You are attacking Hungary's purchase of ventilators. You are now objecting to why we are spending money on the storage of ventilators, Madam honourable Member; it was a lifesaver to buy a ventilator, as was the vaccination to save lives. That's why it's irresponsible for you to attack the acquisition of a ventilator and attack vaccinations to this day. Even in recent days, Klára Dobrev has said things that in the short term vaccination has not saved lives, and they still say things like that, and they still do not withdraw their anti-vaccination parliamentary decisions. This is incredibly irresponsible. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The left could have decided to support the fight against the virus. You could have decided to help Budapest and Brussels, but you didn't choose this. You've chosen the path of attacking the virus everywhere. They said that the legislative proposals that allowed us to introduce various restrictive measures to slow down the spread of the virus, you went to Brussels and said that the dictatorship was here. And the law that protected the Hungarians from the spread of the coronal virus, they said that this was the establishment of a dictatorship, and therefore you do not vote in favour of the law that protected people healthily, and with the credit moratorium and other economic measures, with wage subsidies and various tax incentives, helped to keep people's jobs. We will all remember for the rest of our lives the period of the corona virus epidemic, and we will also remember that the left did not help but, where it could, hindered us. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-26-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Member György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group has asked for our future! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to clarify two things at the beginning of my speech. One is that the quotes that I will read come from the official minutes of Parliament, which you will also be able to see on the Parliament's website. The other thing I would like to say is that I did not come into Parliament with a visitor's pass, but as a Member of Parliament, I can speak because I can be here on the trust of the voters, and I have to represent them in the Parliament, the voters who, by the way, if we look at the opposition, are more than the current governing party, were already more than in 2018. So it's our duty, I think, to tell the truth. If you take the floor from us, silence our microphone, whether for me, my fellow Members, or for our group leader, you will not only silence us, but the millions of people who have sent us into Parliament will be silenced, not even their opinions. Then let's look at the quotes I'd like to share with you. 2017. CHAPTER VI 6 October, Viktor Orbán in Parliament: Then 2016. CHAPTER VI Viktor Orbán also has been national radicals not so long ago, and now they're freaks. Date of UN designation: 1 January 2017. CHAPTER III Viktor Orbán: You have turned Jobbik, a national radical party into a bitch party. Here, the Prime Minister uses a prison slang, the word "chick" between the walls of Parliament. Then 2019. CHAPTER XI 18 months, Dr. Attila Tilki:, What the opposition thinks of Hungarians beyond the border is all applicable to you in the concluded slop coalition. If you don't understand, because the sentence doesn't make sense, then don't insult me, I've quoted the sentence of Attila Tilki, who mentions a slop coalition here, in the walls of the House. Then 2020. CHAPTER XI 18 months, Lőrinc Nacsa, for me, by the way:. You have tried to become a communist from Nazis in a year. After that, 2020. CHAPTER XI 30 October, Balázs Orbán:. When debates were held on the definition of national positions in the European Union, you were on the streets of Budapest as an extreme right-wing mob. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So these are all from you, sentences for which you have not received any warning or punishment. On the other hand, our group leader, Péter Jakab, has been punished 10 million HUF for the word "Fish" and I think that this is outrageous. [[Intercoms from the opposition and the pro-government ranks.]] And then I don't know how you know it, but those who are listening should know that the opposition hasn't gone to the House Committee meetings for several months. After all, we have said that we are not willing to attend meetings of a committee where the President constantly insults opposition parties. Here, too, I would quote from one of the minutes, László Kövér said at this meeting of the House Committee: "Stop this nonsense, Congressman, you're really driving me crazy. That's his intention, I know, but I'm really pissed off. Look, your stinking jerk group leader is pushing a kilo or two kilos of potatoes to the Prime Minister's office.... This is what László Kövér said, that's exactly why the opposition doesn't attend the House Committee meetings. He didn't get any punishment for it. I think that yesterday came the moment that perhaps Parliamentarianism has been at its lowest in recent years, when Peter James did not use any expression in his speech, he gave facts, and László Kövér withdrew the floor from him, and then, as Speaker of the House, he insulted my better fellow Members of the Pulpit and accused him of drunkenness. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Will László Fat punish him for this? Is this an appropriate act? But I think, and believe me, fellow Members, they cannot break us. We will fight until there is a rule of law and democracy in this country until democratic principles, including freedom of expression, are in place. We are fighting for a country and we are going to build a country where you no longer have a role. [[Uproar and interrogations from the pro-government ranks, including: In the name of democracy! Is that democracy? The electorate will decide. The president's ringing the bell.]] and where prosperity, security and freedom are equally common to all. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-26-18	Dear Parliament, I think that the answer is not the President of the Chamber; Mr President, you should also have said the sentences before you listed. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[Noise.]]
u2021-05-26-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you have brought quotes, honourable Member, allow me to read you a few quotes from your words. The founding statement of Jobbik is:. The primary task is to remove the Communist successor party and the extremist liberals joined with it from political power. [[Defiance and interrogation from the pro-government ranks.]] What are you doing now? Together with the Communist successor party and the small liberal party that joined him, he will run for election. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Your spokesperson said: "They will work so that Ferenc Gyurcsány can give his annual speech on the speaker of one of the safest prisons or prisons in the country. Compared to this, you are now working so that Ferenc Gyurcsány or his wife can speak as Prime Minister in Hungary. What did James Peter, quoted by you, say in February last year? Ferenc Gyurcsány in the cake of the opposition is raisins, and I can't stand raisins. Then, a month later, Peter James said, "I will not be on a list with Gyurcs." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[An uproar in the pro-government ranks.]] Now, on a list, in an alliance, in a cooperation declaration, hand in hand, they stand on stage together, and he didn't even need a union to do that. [[Intercom from the pro-government line: Congratulations!]] It's like Christmas to Gregory. What can we conclude from this? That Jobbik's conscience is hyperpassive. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] A few months ago, in an HVG interview, your party president, Peter James, said that he also protested against Ferenc Gyurcsány. He was out there protesting that Ferenc Gyurcsány and the entire left-wing regime should disappear forever. And when the reporter asked him why he was on the list with him, why he was a political ally to the person he was protesting against on the street, he said that we should give Ferenc Gyurcsány the opportunity to change. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] And what did Mrs. Ferenc Gyurcsány say last week about the autumn speech, which is today's 15-year anniversary? That he is proud of the autumn speech today, proud of his husband, and proud that Ferenc Gyurcsány said that they lied to all Hungarian voters, that they did nothing for the country for four years, and even lied to Brussels about the Hungarian budget figures. And he is proud of it, and then James Peter proudly stands up with Klára Dobrev and tries to take power together. Honourable Congressman, Your party is pocketed by the oligarchs, sometimes by Lajos Simicska, sometimes by the Gyurcsány-Dobrev clan. [[9.50]] If there is oligarchadinasty in Hungary, it is the Gyurcsány-Dobrev clan, who have been acting like an oligarch in this country for generations. And you made an alliance with them after many of you, probably like many of us, were on the street in 2006, and we protested against the fact that a Prime Minister cannot do this to his country, nor can he destroy democracy economically, nor can he view democracy as nothing so much as openly lying to people for years. Therefore, Jobbik, your party is empty, they no longer have principles, they go against all their sentences on the basis of which their party was founded. It has no content, and besides gaining power, Jobbik no longer has a purpose. And since there is nothing to say, there is no content, there is still style for you; the style that is a distributed role for you and Ferenc Gyurcsány. You come into Parliament and read the house rules in front of him so that you know what can be broken. They come in on purpose, breaking the rules on purpose. You're like the driver who goes through the red light, and he's gonna go up higher when they're drunk on you. You know exactly what's in the house rules, that's why you're breaking it. And it's just the housebreaking that's become your policy, and it's only provocation that's become your policy. [[György Szilágyi: What was the house violation yesterday? Summon it.]] because since you ignore your own founding letter, your own statements a year and a half ago, because of Ferenc Gyurcsány, you have given up all your previous principles, and that is why you have the style of breaking all the rules, you are breaking all the rules, and here in Parliament, the honourable Member is trying to provoke you. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] As has been said today [[The president's ringing the bell.]] it is the 15th anniversary of the autumn speech, the autumn speech that was indeed the lowest point of Hungarian democracy, the autumn speech on which the political sect DK is based, but against which Jobbik was formed. Were you on the street in 2006? [[György Szilágyi: We were there!]] I think a good part of them was there. You don't have to answer loudly. A lot of them were probably on the street. [[György Szi-Lágyi: Yes, we were there!]] Was Jobbik created so that left-wing and liberal politics of the Gyurcsány type would disappear permanently in Hungary? Yeah. And now they're supporting the teller of the fall speech? [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] Are you guys better off trying to clean the fall speech? You're telling me that's the top of democracy, and that's democracy when people got their eyes blown out, and they went to the streets to get the truth? The people in whose eyes they lied to for four years, and they said we wouldn't tolerate that. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] And then they scratched them, and they split them with a water cannon. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and used tear gas against them, these are the people you were with at the time (The President bells.) And now they're facing these people to protect their oligarch, Ferenc Gyurcsány, from their own (The President bell rings). for their political survival. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-26-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of predictability and rebooting instead of austerity and inertia. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik is fleeing, and I see that they may be going to celebrate, because there is a celebration today in the Little Dobrev-Gyurcsány villa, because 15 years ago on this day, one month after their election victory, Ferenc Gyurcsány told the socialist faction his ignominious, obscene speech summarizing their government until then. Today you can also discuss this and your last lamentable parliamentary speech with Ferenc Gyurcsány Dobrev Klára. At that time, 15 years ago, although it was not intended for the public, it was found out how Ferenc Gyurcsány thought of the country, quote:, fucking country, how he cheated the world, we lied in the morning, night and evening, how the economy was destroyed, they owed the country, they drove hundreds of thousands of people into debt traps. At the time, 15 years ago, it was discovered that they pretended to govern, while they sold the utility companies; if they built something, it was only under PPPs, thus indebting the next generation to 20-30 years. At the time, only the banks were protected, the people were crippled, since they took away their one month's wages from the public servants, they withdrew a month's salary from pensioners, they took away tax breaks from the families, the poor, they reduced the lawn, they stopped the housing subsidies, they took 600 billion forints from patient care, they drove away 6,000 medical workers. At the height of their crisis management, taxes were increased, 12 percent unemployment, while the risk of eviction threatened one and a half million people. They tripled the price of gas, twice the price of electricity. After that, Klára Dobrev, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife will give a speech 15 years later in Parliament, and she will criticize and tell lies about next year's budget, which will last for a year and a half... [[Gergely Harvesto:...be brave, but face to face! The president's ringing the bell.]] Gergely Arató was there, as I understand it, 15 years ago, it would be better if he had spoken in spite of the serious consequences of the global health crisis, giving answers to protect families, protect businesses, thereby minimizing unemployment, further increasing support for education and health. Klára Dobrev lies about the budget that continues to help the people living in the villages, to give back to pensioners for two weeks now, to increase doctors' wages, to further reduce contributions. He wants to grind down the budget that wipes out hundreds of thousands of young people's personal income tax. Speaking of grinding me down, that's what the two of them know, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klara Dobrev. They grinded down those who witnessed the supposed confession of the autumn truth, who were part of their government. Where's the MSZ, where's the SZDS? ! Now they grind down those who have been fooled over the last few years, including those who claim to have been physically assaulted, see Jobbik 15 years ago, and they want to grind down the fall speech so that no one can remember to come back to power. It's not gonna work, because everyone knows they're just lying today, morning, noon and night. Tonight, next to a few bottles of vodka, just read what the bösme said 15 years ago; a little taste, instructive reading: [[Dr. Pál Völner: Repeat!]] What could be done secretly in the months before, so that the last weeks of the election campaign wouldn't reveal papers that we were about to do. There's not much choice. It's not because we fucked up. Not a little, a lot. In Europe, no country has ever done anything like what we've done. There's an explanation. Obviously, we've been lying for the last year and a half. It was perfectly clear that what we were saying wasn't true. And in the meantime, we haven't done anything for four years. Nothing! You can't tell Gergely Arató and the others about significant government measures that we can be proud of beyond the fact that we're sorry again for the bad language from the shit. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We brought the government back to the end. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This speech reminds me and warns me. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Reminds people who have been beaten, reminds people who have been destroyed (The President rings the bell.) And those who cooperate with them in politics. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-26-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi applied for a pre-meeting speech... [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Excuse me. Dear Parliament, Looks like it's a very intense and very exciting day, so I'm gonna ask you who you want to answer on behalf of the government. (To be indicated:) On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-23	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, it was a very sad day in Hungarian history from 15 years ago, when the then Prime Minister gave this speech, which confessed what their politics meant, what their government meant. Now, basically, we're dealing with the same idea, the same idea, and the same desire for power. As Congressman said, there is an intra-family change: now the husband, Ferenc Gyurcsány, cannot come back into power, and now the family has agreed to try to come to Klára Dobrev. [[10.00]] In the family, obviously, the same thinking. Thinking at that time, which marked left-wing governance between 2002 and 2010, would like to return to Hungary; it would like to return. We heard Klára Dobrev's speech in connection with the 2022 budget debate, and Ferenc Gyurcsány could have said it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] , the essence of which was to promise, promise and promise. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: And lie!]] Lying. Klára Dobrev told me that she accidentally met Aunt Katus Papan on the street, by accident, with Aunt Katus's girlfriend, who she was walking with, and she confronted him and told him how she lived. I spoke then, and I said in my speech that what he said to Klára Dobrev had been described by him as what was not included in the budget, and I was trying to explain what was not contained in his speech. For example, in this case, he forgot to tell the Prime Minister-designate, the wife, that, by the way, this woman retired when Ferenc Gyurcsány was the Prime Minister. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] And the reason he has so little pension is because the rules made up of the left-wing socialist governments made this possible. Or when he promised to increase the family allowance, he did not add that this also meant that, by the way, the family tax relief system, which means more for one million families to raise their family, would essentially cease. [[Gergely Harvesto: No, it's not true! That's not true. That's a lie!]] And we could list how the current civilian, Fidesz-KDNP government's thinking of a crisis management change, how it changed, how it changed, and how it changed, and how the thinking of the then, Gyurcsány-, left-wing government, who now wants to return to power, is different. I'll give you a few examples. Then the 13th month pension has been withdrawn and the current government will rebuild the 13th month pension. The public sector's wages were taken away by the left-wing government at that time during the crisis, real wages increased and wages exceeded inflation levels. At the time, he saw the solution in a tax increase, and the left-wing government saw the solution in the tax reduction of the current government, giving people under the age of 25 a personal income tax discount, and reducing the employer's charges. Or the credit moratorium didn't even occur to the government at the time, even though just then, a few years before, he introduced two million families into the foreign exchange credit crisis, they were not helped during the crisis by the current government in Europe in a unique way with the introduction of a credit moratorium. And we could go through it with many, many examples, but we can't take five more minutes. Dear Parliament, Let's take care of that. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that the thinking, the desire for power and the government of the left should not return (the president bells. ) Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-24	Thank you for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, We are now taking the floor before the agenda with the title of Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz Group and our current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-26-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Pedophilia is one of the ugliest and most disgusting things a person can do. It is annoying when violence and sexual crimes are committed to the harm of young children, and it is incomprehensible when this crime is committed by a relative, a family member. Criminals are mostly ahead of law enforcement, so we can't miss out on more sophisticated, unscrupulous sexual predators. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's set our goals here, our core values. First of all, pedophiles can't hide, can't hope to hide. Secondly, they cannot hope to get away with it; it will have consequences if they touch our children with just one finger. Third, zero, zero chances of a pedophile ever getting near a child again! Fourthly, I believe there is zero tolerance for pedophiles from all over society, there is no rescue, pedophilia is a crime, and it is the ugliest kind. Fifthly, the paedophile crime still cannot lapse, the perpetrator must know that the chances of punishment depend on it as the sword of Damocles for the rest of his life. Allow me to summarise the main points of our proposal yesterday with Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group. We're creating a register of pedophile offenders, which is what the common language calls a blacklist. This will create a new data request that will allow parents, relatives or other persons raising children to be able to verify that they have previously been convicted of pedophile crimes. The creation of a register is also justified by the fact that pedophiles are often repeat offenders. We propose extending the employment ban to more jobs. This also serves to prevent pedophile offenders from ever coming near our children again. Under the current legislation, no paedophile offenders can be employed in a minor's education, supervision, care and treatment employer, and we recommend that this be extended to those jobs where the child is provided with services related to leisure, entertainment and sports. For example, the beach, the amusement park, the sports club's assistant. In addition to the pedophile register, we are proposing a significant increase in penalties against child pornography perpetrators, and we are introducing new certification cases. For example, a sexual offence committed to harm children under 12 years of age, but it is also a qualifying factor when a criminal offence is committed by an official. Consider an example. If a person prepares child pornography for the abuse of a child under the age of 12, he may be sentenced to a sentence of up to 5-15 years; this sentence is otherwise equivalent to the basic penalty for murder. Let me also mention another example of doubling the sentence: sexual violence, if committed by children under the age of 12 by force and more, is currently in force for a period of 5-20 years, we recommend doubling the lower limit of the sentence to 10 years, so these perpetrators must be sentenced to a minimum of 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen, It hurts society's sense of justice when a pedophile is on parole. It is recommended that in the event of an offence committed under the age of 18, which may be punishable by at least 8 years of imprisonment and sexually committed, no conditional release should be made, and that the paedophile sit down the sentence imposed on him. Ladies and gentlemen, You can also see that there are still traces, but there are international examples or attempts to make pedophilia acceptable in society. This has to be suppressed in the bud. Tell the pedophiles zero tolerance. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Catholic Church! To the Catholic Church, too!]] Don't let our children get hurt. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, in addition to the Congresswoman, to confirm and complement what has been said about yesterday's bill. [[10.10]] Sexual crimes against children can have serious psychological and physical consequences. These consequences are even more frequent and serious if the perpetrator is a family member, a close acquaintance, or a person with whom the child has a personal relationship. The bill therefore indeed establishes a register of paedophile offenders, which aims to provide a new possibility of requesting data that allows the protection of the child's interests in relation to persons directly involved with the child to be verified that he has previously been convicted of a sexual offence committed to the child. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly pointed out the aspects to be taken into account by the legislator in the development of registration rules. According to the bill, it is necessary to indicate the legal basis for the data request when requesting data from the paedophile register, and the data that the data seeker knows can be managed on purpose. The narrowest range of data from perpetrators to identify and assess the extent of their danger to society becomes known, including the name, year of birth, residence at local level, facial image, and the crime committed. However, a copy or a screen photograph cannot be made of the data you learn, and they must not be made public or reproduced. Dear House, The bill further strengthens the employment rules with regard to sexual offenders to harm children. On the basis of this, a child who commits a sexual offence cannot be employed by an employer who provides children with leisure, entertainment, sports services such as a beach, amusement park, zoo. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislator's recent events have made it clear that the phenomenon of repulsive crimes that have been victimized by a child has not disappeared for years or even decades. Therefore, the legislator has further tightened up to protect the child, so in the case of sexual offences committed to the harm of minors, which are not more than 5 years of imprisonment, the limitation period rests until the victim is 21 years of age, so it starts afterwards. [[It's constant noise.]] The proposal also excludes from the possibility of conditional release persons who are sentenced to imprisonment for eight years or more of imprisonment for crimes against sex and sexual morality. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Dear House, The proposal tightens the penalties for the most serious forms of sexual violence. Aggravated by a situation of violence against a person under 12 years of age, or a social offence, or a criminal offence committed or committed under 18 years of age, abusing a situation of influence, or punishing a social offence, accordingly rises to a range of 5 to 20 years. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal regulates child pornography in a more differentiated and stricter way than it currently is: it expands the scope of criminal behaviour, increases the penalties, complements the facts with new, classified cases and redefines the concept of pornography. In view of all of this, I ask you all to support the proposed child protection. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-28	I thank the Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, for his reply. Dear Parliament, According to our agreed agenda, we will continue our work at 10:15 p.m. with decisions. I am now ordering a recess by the date indicated so that our fellow Members can take their seats. Please remain in your seats, who have already arrived. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, It's 10:15. We'll continue our work with decisions. My fellow Members, please take your seats. Dear Parliament, Now that they have taken their seats before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Present 153, away 46.]] Thank you. I declare that the Parliament has a quorum. Dear Parliament, In line with our adopted agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Z. Kárpát Dániel, representative of Jobbik, I/16303. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 49 votes against and one abstention. Gurmai Zita, MSZP representative, I/15918. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 111 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Anett Bősz, representative of DK, I/16227. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 49 votes against and one abstention. Lóránt Keresztes, representative of LMP, I/16229. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 53 votes against and one abstention. Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, I/16232. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 52 votes against and one abstention. Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, I/16302. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 52 votes against and one abstention. [[10.20]] Dear Parliament, Next up is XC 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/15974. Final vote of bill No 1. I remind you that the President of the Fiscal Council is the 2011 CXCIV on Hungary's economic stability. Law 25 § 2 did not give the Council's opinion on the single proposal to the Speaker of Parliament on the deadline set out in paragraph 2 of the Act on Stability. The preliminary consent of the Council to the single proposal is deemed to be granted under Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure and therefore the final vote is not an obstacle. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15974/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. On 14 December 2020 the European Union's own resources system and repealing Decision 2014/35/EU, Euratom T/15696 on the publication of Council Decision 2020/2053 Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15696. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 170 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that the Convention on the Privileges and immunities of the Specialised Institutions of the United Nations, of 21 November 1947, and its Appendices, of 21 November 1947, are to be published in a uniform manner. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15695/4. and a summary report by T/15695/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The rapporteur is Mr T/15695/7. No. 7 submitted an adjustment to the finally established authentic text of the international treaty and its official translation into Hungarian to improve spelling, translation errors and other typos available on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15695/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the summary amendment with 170 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15695/6. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the adjusted single proposal with 172 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next, the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company will be XLII in 1994. T/15984. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15984/4. and a summary report by T15984/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee T/1598/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes in favour, 38 votes against and 16 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1598/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 38 votes against and 16 abstentions. Next up is T/15967 on international judicial cooperation on parental responsibility. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15967/5 of the legislative committee's proposal to amend the legislative committee in summary. and a summary report by T/15967/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15967/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly unanimously adopted the summary amendment with 171 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15967/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the single proposal with 172 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that T/15993, on restructuring and amending certain laws for harmonisation purposes, will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15993/5. and a summary report by T/15993/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/15993/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 166 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15993/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 165 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. T/1590 on the electronic administration of metropolitan and county government offices and on the amendment of certain laws relating to government reporting Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1599/4. T/15990/5 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1599/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes to 12, with 38 abstentions. [[10.30]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15990/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 122 votes to 12, with 39 abstentions. Next line is the T/1599 on real estate registration. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1569/4. and a summary report by T/15969/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1569/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes to six, with 45 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1569/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 121 votes to six, with 45 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws for strategic purposes in the tourism and catering sector will follow until closure. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] The government referral is T/16220. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-05-26-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I should start by saying why we need the current legislative amendment that we are discussing. When I answer that, allow me to give a brief account of the history. In the years after 2010, domestic tourism has shown outstanding results. I am not going to say anything to you, either, by breaking this process into a wheel, causing an unprecedented blow to the sector in Hungary and around the world. The heroic stance of health workers and the vaccination programme have once again created the opportunity to return to normal life in a foreseeable time, and this also means that, in addition to immediate re-launching decisions, development aid, we need to adapt the regulatory environment to the new situation and make it more effective. The bill we are discussing today is intended to serve this purpose. The bill represents a change in three main areas. The first is to involve operators of catering and tourist attractions, like accommodation providers, in the reporting system of the National Tourism Data Centre. This is necessary so that we can have a more complete picture of the operation of the whole sector than before. If we get a full and detailed picture, support programmes can also be launched in a targeted and more efficient way. The second main blow is that the bill lays the foundations for a national accommodation certification system that guarantees a uniform standard of service and is based on well-functioning international practices. By adopting it, the accommodation services sector becomes more transparent, the performance and quality of the accommodations become measurable and comparable, the primary beneficiaries of which will be the guests. Thirdly, the proposed legislation in question provides for the possibility for the government to name the municipalities of tourism importance. The National Tourism Data Service Center started operations in 2019 and operates under the supervision of the Hungarian Tourism Agency. With its help you can see in real time the traffic and statistics of all accommodations in the country, including pre-booking data, and all of this anonymously. Based on the experience gained so far, the aim of the bill and bill is to ensure that, on the basis of the model that has already been successfully introduced at the hotels, both catering facilities and attractions are up-to-date, accurate, yet anonymous statistics can also be monitored. This will give us a comprehensive picture of the tourism sector as a whole, which will significantly help strategic planning. Marketing activities and tourism development and support can become even more effective and targeted. In addition, regional disparities will be reduced in the long term, and real data-based decision-making is just as important a significant competitive advantage in international competition for tourists. As a result of the legislative amendment, tourism companies can also get a more accurate picture of their own performance. You can look at the averages of competitors, which in a good way increases competition and improves standards. We do not want the new rules to impose too much burden on smaller service providers, so the Hungarian Tourist Agency will provide the application, called Guests, free of charge for accommodation with up to 8 rooms and a maximum of 16 seats, through which the daily administration of private and other accommodations can be done easily and easily. [[10.40]] As far as the single accommodation rating system is concerned: we may agree that the existence of a transparent and objective certification system is a prerequisite if we want Hungarian tourism to jump; and domestic guests have a legitimate expectation that it should be so. The accommodation certification system that we are about to introduce will remove the current practice of misleading consumers. While many accommodation providers have already voluntarily joined the European rating system Hotelstars, most of the accommodations have not provided accurate and true data on the rating during the NTAK registration. The establishment of a national accommodation qualification system helps us to get a real picture of the domestic accommodation offer. This enhances the safety, comfort and confidence of guests in accommodation, which can generate traffic growth and contribute to the rapid recovery and expansion of the sector, as well as strengthen the international attractiveness of our country. It is a fundamental fact that many European countries with high tourist potential have similar mandatory rating systems. For example, Slovenia, Malta and Andalusia in Spain apply such rules. For each type of accommodation, a rating system is established which is based on uniform principles while at the same time taking into account the specificities of the particular category. A single rating will be understandable to everyone. For each type of accommodation, it will be classified with a number of stars ranging from 1 to 5. The criteria differ by type: a large hotel must, as appropriate, meet much more aspects than a smaller private accommodation. The rating system will be introduced gradually over several years, providing preparation time, and accommodation providers will have to obtain their ratings every three years. Classification parameters are defined for each category of accommodation with the involvement of professional organisations, and the criteria also meet consumers' expectations. The Hungarian Tourism Quality Certification Board Nonprofit Kft. is a national body consisting of recognised professionals, certified by certification and verification. It'll work under your control. It is important that the first rating is free of charge, so it will not constitute additional costs for businesses. The proposal has broad support. The professional representative organisations have concluded a cooperation agreement with the Hungarian Tourism Agency in order to introduce the rating system. I would also like to briefly mention the settlements of particular tourist importance. The identification of priority tourist areas started in 2016. In 2020, the government established 11 tourism areas in order to make it more efficient to carry out tourism tasks. However, the designation of these areas has not yet ended the professional work, as Hungary is, fortunately, struggling with the disruption of abundance in the area of attractions. Many municipalities do not belong to any tourist area, but have significant tourist attractions. According to the bill, therefore, in the future it will be possible to define the municipalities of tourism importance in a government decree. This can make decision-making on targeted developments more effective. Dear House, The government sees tourism as a strategic sector. In recent years, the sector has, accordingly, received unprecedented support. Within the framework of the Kisfaludy programme, rural accommodation, beaches and attractions are renewed, renewed, and the digitalisation of the sector is also taking significant steps. Special attention has been paid by the tourism sector in return for the outstanding results. Every year since 2010 has surpassed the previous years. One record followed another, and this momentum was broken by the coronal virus epidemic, but every crisis also gives us the opportunity to expect a fresh start from a rethinking position. The government hasn't been idle in the months of the plague. Measures that directly support businesses, such as credit moratoriums, tax incentives and wage subsidies, have continued to develop and, in consultation with industry stakeholders, have adapted the national tourism development strategy to the new situation, which is called Tourism 2.0. The bill under discussion fits well with this new strategy, which is supported by more than 40 professional organisations and five historical churches, so it is our intention that tourism can contribute to being one of the drivers of the restarting of life. Given all these circumstances and circumstances, I believe that the proposal can count on the support of fellow Members for good reason. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-31	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Tourism in Hungary, as we know, is a strategic sector, one of the engines of the economy; ensuring its competitiveness and growth, I think it is in the common interest of all parties. The establishment of the Hungarian Tourism Agency, whose main task is the development of Hungarian tourism management and the definition of strategies under the law, served to strengthen the sector in 2016. The tourism law in Hungary has had a lot to wait for, and its entry into force has put tourism in an appropriate legal framework. We are now discussing the amendment of this law, which I think can only be based on professional foundations, facts and very well-thought-out and prudent information, because we are talking about a very sensitive and vulnerable sector. However, trends in this sector are changing very quickly, so we need to respond to these changes if we want Hungary to remain competitive in this competition, both in Europe and on the world market. The proposal establishes the framework conditions for a national accommodation certification system guaranteeing an internationally uniform quality of service, as has been said. As a result of the certification to be introduced, transparency in the accommodation services sector will be substantially improved, the performance and quality of accommodation will be measurable and comparable, and the essence of all this will be to put the interests of consumers and the protection of their interests first. Each accommodation will receive a rating, which will make it clear what kind of service the guest can expect from the accommodation and the quality of the accommodation. The value and quality of all accommodations will be indicated by stars from 1 to 5. Other used symbols will cease to exist. The new rating system was most motivated by consumer protection considerations, as there were numerous complaints from guests who complained that they could use very different standards in the use of accommodation. So the purpose of the classification is also to provide reliable quality to the guests, whether the hotel, apartment house or private accommodation. The system will be introduced gradually, and the first rating will be free, and longer preparation time will also help to prepare for smaller accommodations. Like accommodation providers, the bill also involves operators of catering and tourist attractions in NTAK's system, i.e. digital data reporting, in order to obtain a much more complete picture of the operation of the whole sector, which is part of Article XXI. It is a condition for data-driven decision making in the first century. We can say that there are very few places in Europe where such a level of decision-making is successfully applied in tourism. We are trying to catch up on this from Hungary. Hungary has been able to show outstanding results in terms of domestic tourism and catering, but the corona virus epidemic has struck the Hungarian tourism sector without precedent. Thanks to the discipline of the Hungarian people, the stability of health workers, the attitude of tourism service providers and the people working there and the government's support, I think that this sector will be able to resume within a reasonable time. This also means that competition will start again for both domestic and international tourists. This is why the sector needs to be modernised. I must point out that the provision of accommodation and compulsory certification, which meets consumer expectations, are already a basic condition of Article XXI. 100th century tourism for all accommodations. However, the national accommodation rating system will not be unknown to market participants, as the Ministry of National Economy and the Association of Hungarian Hotels and Restaurants had an agreement in 2012, according to which hotels could voluntarily join the Hotelstars European rating system, which will now become mandatory for all hotels. [[10.50]] The benefits of Hotelstars were also used by a large number of people, but the negative trend of 49 percent of hotels in the course of NTAK registration has been revealed. It is therefore important to put fair operators in a better position and to keep the tourism sector bleached. During the introduction of the new system, there is a strong desire to increase the importance of quality services and consumer confidence, to improve quality through the development and continuous education of service providers. The system will be introduced gradually over several years, and, as I said, the first introduction will be free. The proposal has broad support, the professional representation bodies have concluded a cooperation agreement with the Hungarian Tourism Agency to introduce a new accommodation certification system. If we are talking about tourism law and tourism in general, then I must say the progress that, in my opinion, is moving in a very good direction in the Hungarian tourism sector and needs further reinforcement, and this is the further successful cooperation between the Hungarian university research workshops and the Hungarian Tourism Agency. I think we should be proud of these. We have excellent tourist research workshops such as the University of Pécs, the Corvinus University, the Kodolányi College, the Savaria University Centre, the research workshops in Sopron, Győr and Veszprém, as well as renowned researchers at both domestic and international level, such as Gábor Michalkó, Antal Aubert, Tamara Rátz, János Csapó, Lóránt Dávid, Éva Happ, Miklós Bánhidi or from the new generation Gergely Marton, Mátyás Hinek, Andrea Pálfi, I could continue the line, and there are excellent professionals in the management and professional research network of the Hungarian Tourism Agency, who are not listed. I think that we can all be very proud of them and that their professional knowledge is very much added to the fact that the Hungarian tourism sector has been able to deliver such outstanding results in recent years. I think we should continue to use this knowledge in the future. In 2016, when the Government Decree on the naming of areas has been amended since then and 11 tourism areas have been defined, these are very well-defined destinations, instead of the previous development-oriented vision, the focus can now shift to sales and marketing in addition to the destination approach. That's another step forward. With the definition of tourism areas, the government laid the foundations for the development of tourism with a destination approach. For example, this is how the Sopron-Fertő priority tourist area was named, which is actually the constituency in Sopron, where we can also see the positive examples of this tourism development. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Exactly, yes, Congressman, you will be able to tell me when you speak, if I may; I will listen quietly. However, the link between professional work and experiential points is not over with the designation of areas. Hungary is very rich and abundant in terms of attractions, which is why a new element is included in this amendment in order to name priority settlements in government decrees. Here we can think of Ravenkő, Kecskemét, or even Zalalalövő, who have all the professional aspects to get into this. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Each crisis also provides an opportunity for a fresh start and for us to expect a positive reboot from a positive position. The Government of Hungary has not been idle, it has been able to help the tourism sector in many ways, which has already been spoken about in the Expozé by Minister of State, and so it could be established, in consultation with the sectoral actors, Tourism 2.0, in which I am very confident that successful tourism development can be achieved. This bill is in line with professional organisations representing the entire sector, and, as has been said, this is supported by the five historical churches. I think that, in the professional debate that has just begun, I am sure that we will also come to the point that this amendment is necessary and that we should discuss it, and I ask everyone to support and accept the new amendments to the Tourism Act. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Tourism is a priority sector for the national economy. The operation of tourist attractions, the related accommodation services and other commercial services define the economy of whole regions, sometimes whole regions. Tourism is a complex and diverse sector, for which it is difficult and perhaps not possible to develop a single, centrally defined development programme, as local specificities are particularly important in this sector. The importance of tourism has been recognised by all countries, so they are all trying to make the availability of tourism services as simple as possible for visitors and to encourage local economic operators to provide the best possible tourism services for visitors. It can be concluded that tourism is an international market where fierce competition is taking place for the benefit of the users of the service, for the benefit of the visitors. With the help of the Internet and social media, the market offers a wide range of solutions so that the quality of services can be easily and easily compared not only within a country but also between countries. Unfortunately, the bill before us does not make it any easier for service providers by imposing a new administrative burden on them. It is also unlikely that users of services will make their decisions in the future on the basis of the data of the new system, since according to established practice consumer decisions are mainly influenced by the feedback available in social media. These consumer habits are difficult to change by means of public government, as tourism is a free cross-border market. Indeed, the coronal virus epidemic has seriously affected the tourism sector, and the trials are far from over. Recovering the trust of visitors is particularly important, but this cannot be achieved by new administrative measures. Public intervention is counterproductive in any market where competition is open and sharp for both service providers and consumers. The additional administration planned in the bill does not facilitate the competitiveness of Hungarian tourism service providers. The bill does not state what the state intends to do with the mass of data that will be transferred into the system in the future. In previous years, we have seen similar government measures, large-scale IT developments. In all cases, the IT applications supporting the systems were supplied by a company belonging to a family member or friend of Viktor Orbán. The applications were little good, useful, often not even useful, but in all cases they were good expensive, they were good business for the beneficiary developers. Indeed, the tourism sector is in a difficult situation, its difficult situation is not in question, and the need for State intervention for assistance is also not in question. Unfortunately, the bill does not help the players in the sector, but rather increases their burden. The bill radiates the intention of centralization, increasing the influence of the state. With state help and public money in the tourist area, Viktor Orbán's relatives and friends have already gained significant influence. Unfortunately, the expansion of the Orbán clan took place at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, and the centralisation contained in the bill makes it more difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to survive despite the epidemic. This raises the question of what the real purpose of this proposal could be. In the wake of the epidemic, as I mentioned, tourism is in a very difficult situation, tourism sectors and service providers are in a very difficult situation. But despite the effects of the epidemic, does it look like there are too many competitions left for Lőrinc Mészáros and the pair of princes standing on their own feet, István Tiborcz and Rachel Orbán? And they got plenty of help during the epidemic, but with the service providers you left on the side of the road, remember that during the epidemic, money was pouring out to Orbán friends, NER riders, buddies and friends. [[11.00]] Only the Hungarian Tourism Agency distributed HUF 84 billion of non-refundable funding. And how much of these 84 billion forints did your friends take? How much did the Garanchis know, with whom Viktor Orbán usually flies on a private plane, because he pays for the flights, the Tsányik, Hernádi, Tiborczok and the Ripper Lőrincek? Only Lőrinc Mészáros received 18 billion HUF of this HUF 84 billion non-refundable loan, i.e. development money. Of course, this way it's easy to gain a competitive edge in this market, when they're scattered, everyone gets money! Today it seems that Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, or those service providers, were still able to stay on their feet, and this may not even please you despite this competitive advantage, so entrepreneurs must be destroyed. We need to look at which market we need, which market is suitable for Lőrinc Mészáros or even with the help of Rahel Orbán, and they say that with administrative burdens or with the downgrading institution, which they will now change, it may be possible to destroy these businesses, so they may not be able to stay on their feet. The one that breaks means less competition, and in which you may see fantasy or opportunity, and then you will buy it for tobacco, and you will buy it from these entrepreneurs, because you need the market. They want to take me down, I tell you, with the competition, and whoever they can, they're gonna buy me up for tobacco. This is, in our view, the real purpose of this bill. This is what this bill is all about, because we've gotten used to it in the past 12 years, and we've gotten used to it, that you've been bringing proposals here to this House for the benefit of you, the NER knights and Viktor Orbán's circle of friends and friends. There have been several such laws before this House. That's how they robbed the tobacco market and became sovereigns, so they robbed the casinos, and they became sovereigns in this area, and that's how they do all the areas you need and what you need right now. So the bill before us is an exclusive example of government incompetence, by the way. A whole sector is struggling to survive, all its players are calling for help, and the government is responding to that, creating another administrative burden for them. The government has been separated from reality, from everyday life, from real problems, the government is living in some strange bubble, and it is trying to emulate government with pretense measures, or it sees very well the difficult and distressing situation in this sector, and it is using it to try to be completely alone and try to rob this sector completely. This is also a confirmed fact, because in a country where a Mafia government rules, these procedures are acceptable to you, not to us, that is what we are fighting against, that is what we will do to ensure that everyone in this country is finally entitled to equal rights and equal obligations. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-26-34	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member György Szilágyi did not listen to the State Secretary's expo, because then he could have had a lot of answers to questions that he had asked in his speech. Although we also understand the left-wing logic where György Szilágyi says that Hungarians will choose accommodation not on the basis of ratings, but on the basis of feedback. These are synonymous, honourable Member. You have proved that you are wrong, because the Hungarians choose how they value those accommodations, what quality, what service they can get there. And that you scold the entire tourism sector, attack the workers in it, and forget the principle that the guest here is the first to try to take measures where visitors and guests wishing to relax there, or even on a business trip, will be able to spend the best possible time serving the highest possible quality in that accommodation. I understand that now it's enough to keep Jobbik's faction in a 6-8-bedroom bed and breakfast because of their decreasing numbers, but that doesn't mean he's gonna attack you. [[Lajos Rig: Let's say we don't go to Pelion...]] That doesn't mean he's gonna attack. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the whole Hungarian tourism sector, the housing tax [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Where is KDNP going?]] Do not attack the owners of private accommodations, hotel owners, as these people have suffered enough in recent years, this sector has suffered enough in recent years, especially in the past year and a half. But let's look at what happened before it happened, because you are attacking the entire tourism sector and attacking the government's actions in tourism, but let's see what numbers marked tourism until 2019 before the corona virus epidemic hit in early 2020. In the last year of peace before the pandemic, Hungarian tourism broke the record again in 2019; the number of guests in commercial accommodations reached 12.8 million, which is what you call looted and ruined tourism, and the number of guest nights was close to 31,3 million. The number of guest nights was balanced between domestic and foreign guests, as half of all my guest nights, 15.6 million were spent by domestic tourists and 15.7 million were spent by foreign guests in Hungary in 2019. Budapest's role in international tourism was outstanding this year, since in 2019, under the leadership of István Tarlós, Budapest won the prestigious European Best Destinations Award. In the competition between more than 300 European cities, no destination has received as many votes since the award was held, as high international support as Budapest. In addition, 77 percent of the votes of those voting for Budapest assessed the Hungarian destinations from countries outside Hungary to such high levels. Most people from the United Kingdom, the United States, Germany, France, Austria and Italy voted for Hungary and Budapest; these foreign tourists probably don't come to Budapest because of the beekeepers you set up. Hungarian tourism also decided a record in 2019 in terms of total accommodation revenues, where it exceeded HUF 550 billion. This is an 8.8 percent increase compared to the 2018 data a year earlier, which is what you called a stolen, looted and ruined tourist system and commercial accommodation system. Since 2010, 1.5 times more guests have spent one and a half times more nights in domestic commercial accommodations, resulting in two and a half times more accommodation revenues in 2019. To say that there is nothing, that we have failed to achieve results, that we have no success that can be shown, of course it not only assumes malice, but also lies. I think that we also owe thanks to Hungarian accommodation taxes, and thanks to the important decisions, developments and development proposals that my colleague György Szilágyi attacked here for ten minutes, because here, during the period of the pandemic, and earlier, many private accommodations, pensions, small guest rooms and hotels were able to renew, step up and expand their services. The fact that you normally attack these applications here in Parliament and you would deprive these accommodations of the possibility of development, I think it is inappropriate. The dynamic growth of Hungarian tourism was broken in March 2020 by the corona virus pandemic, which brought about a new era in the tourism sector. During the first wave of the epidemic, the Hungarian government was among the first to provide a lifeline for the tourism and catering sector, which was aimed at keeping businesses alive and protecting jobs, and the continuous development, since it is possible to develop, build and expand in a closed pension, hotel and hotel. In order to save the tourism and catering sector, the government has taken a number of measures from the outset. In the first instance, employers' contributions have ceased and workers' contributions have been significantly reduced. The government also suspended the obligation to pay capital and interest on all private individuals and businesses until the date of notification and made the institution of the wage subsidy economically available to a wide range of tourism service providers. The government further strengthened the SZÉP card, which is the engine of domestic tourism, in which it halved the tax burden and doubled the amount that the employer could charge. You attacked these measures and called them nothing. At the time of the second and third wave, the government launched a wage support programme, as well as other sectors of service affected by restrictions, tourism catering, restaurants, hotels. A total of HUF 84 billion was paid in the wage support programme this year, so far some 30,000 companies in difficulty due to the coronal virus have been helped to keep 176 thousand employees. [[11.10]] The government has extended the wage support scheme and tax benefits to April and May 2021, helping to restart the sector, and here we have seen in the last few days the good news that the number of bookings for the long weekend in Pentecost has increased considerably. The Hungarians began again, obviously with their immunity card to go to the accommodations, looking for opportunities to relax. I think that this is a very important milestone and good news in restarting the country. In addition, the government also reduced the VAT on delivered food and also helps to reopen the fact that the public area occupied by the terraces does not require public use fees to be paid to operators of catering shops. The re-launch and further dynamic expansion of tourism is served by the fact that during the pandemic there was time and opportunity to renovate and modernise a number of accommodations. Within the framework of the Kisfaludy accommodation development schemes, 14 thousand private and other accommodations received HUF 42.6 billion in 2020, with which 44 thousand rooms were renewed, so, despite all left-wing rumors, 14 thousand private and other accommodations received this support, while here you lied that only some selected few could receive this support, which is not true. Contrary to the government's reboot support measures, what have we experienced from you, where there is left-wing government leadership? You wanted to implement draft tax increases, rent increases, special taxes and restrictions on tourism catering. The aim of the bill before us is to establish the framework conditions for a national accommodation certification system that guarantees an internationally uniform standard of service. Like accommodation providers, the bill also involves operators of catering and tourist attractions in the NTAK system of the National Tourism Data Service Centre, i.e. the digital data reporting process, in order to get a fuller picture of the operation of the whole sector than before, developing the 21st century. Data-driven decision-making conditions for the entire tourism sector in the first century. Today, 35 thousand private and other accommodations operate in Hungary, so many registered at the National Tourism Data Service Center. NTAK has already played a major role in the whitening of the tourism sector, which can now continue to grow among catering and tourist attractions. We have seen that the government's economic whitening steps so far have succeeded, whether we take the Ministry of Finance's earlier proposals, whether we see them in the tourism sector or in the catering sector, the online cash register, the online account opening and the various economic whitening measures that have led to success in recent years, I think it is important to expand this. Making use of the potential of this unique statistical data file in Europe can provide a significant competitive advantage in the re-starting competition for tourists in Europe. Our aim is not only to restart tourism in Hungary, but also to get the sector back on a dynamically growing path, and to make Hungary an attractive destination for both domestic and foreign tourists, where guests have their free time XXI. Under century conditions, quality accommodations and excellent services are available. For us, it is in the interest of tourists, domestic and foreign tourists to spend their rest time in ever-increasing quality accommodations to bring the good news of Hungary to the world, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-26-36	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Let me start with what my fellow Member Nacsa left behind: the interests of domestic and foreign tourists are in the hands of the government, if only so. By the way, everyone would love to, but I'm sure that's not what you want me to do, but then I'll start with good news, for example, I'm glad the government is the author. So we don't have to think that we don't have to believe what we had to believe earlier, that Mónika Dunai considered the Hungarian media market on a rainy Saturday afternoon, or it was the last time, right, Böröcz was a fellow Member who obviously used the rainy afternoon on Saturday to rethink the municipal housing market, and to look at the situation of municipal rentals and button that coat again. There were then professional discussions, so at least at some level the participants were involved in this issue, and the government was involved at some level at the time. So I see this as a positive, by the way, in this situation, a lot more positive, I tell you honestly, I can't see. What you are saying, and my fellow Member Nacsa has said, you are obviously right from your point of view, but let me show you this from another side. We're talking about the Kisfaludy program, which we've repeatedly asked you about during the pandemic... At the time, the good wonder was that from one moment to the next, who dared to decide the framework of this program from 23 to 27 and from 27 to 82 billion forints. All of a sudden, you've started proclaiming winners, and what's obviously stuck with most of us is that, once you've talked about the stars so much, you've just won this competition with one of our tourist standing stars, Lőrinc Mészáros, standing on the skies of Hungary. He won this tender modestly, although it does not offend HUF 17.7 billion, when he dismissed 850 people from these companies, and perhaps two weeks after he took 11 billion forints of dividends from another company. Then we asked you that you didn't create it to be called a national capital knife department, so we call them an oligarch, which is much simpler than that, so that you, of course, created this department so that when the government is in trouble, when one of the sectors in one sector is in trouble, you're told to help. Well, you can see here that the Butcher Lawrence doesn't apply. Why didn't you, Mr. Secretary of State, tell the Butcher Lawrence that you can handle it now? Don't let people go now, don't apply now, understand now that you can't win, because others need help, because you just took 11 billion out of one of your companies. And among themselves: Lőrinc Mészáros has not been able to make mistakes since then when it comes to public procurement and tenders. So who's really stuffed, why did you even have to take that little? And once again, the most outrageous thing about this is that when you laid off 850 people, making the lives of 850 families hell, in the first wave of the plague, they had 90 days to find a job. This company received HUF 17.7 billion for the dismissal of 850 people. There will also be a national accommodation certification system. This is, you know, one of those things that would be good, but you can see that this thing is limping somewhere, of course. Why did this come up now? We have also had an agreement of almost ten years, haven't we, we have heard, in 2012, the association of the hosts joined the Hotelstars, and this agreement has been prepared suddenly because they couldn't hold on to something else, and now there will be a national quality system. It's just that we see it, and that's what we say most of the time, and I'm sure we have a lot more experience with you than we have any illusions left. You're not going to use this to classify hotels in a uniform way. You will use this as the sword of Damocles, this experience with you. Maybe whoever wrote this text didn't think so, but that's what you're going to use it for, that's for sure. As the sword of Damocles, you will be held above the head of hotel operators and hotels every three years. And if someone needs a hotel, and if someone needs a bed and breakfast, then, please, they can get a rating, and then they can see you. If someone wants to apply for support, didn't he, Mr Secretary of State, say that the granting of grants requires a more complete picture, so he said, I don't know, we haven't been able to fully map this sector in the last ten years, but if we need an even more complete picture to grant the grants, then this system will allow us to do so. [[11.20]] How nice it would have been for the Kisfaludy programmer to have such a fuller picture for 82 billionaires. Let's say, for example, that if you dismiss 850 employees, you do not sapphirung them out with HUF 17.7 billion. Such an indicator, if it had been in it, would have helped us a lot, at least our sense of justice. One more question is that you will also highlight regions. Of course, that's what everyone's been trying to do. There were tourist destination management, there were priority areas. Of course, Budapest has always created a separate region in this, and I think that it is a pleasure for all of us that Budapest is a European city where foreigners are welcome to come. It's one of those things where we need to remind ourselves, and then, of course, you know, it's like a priority investment in the national economy. How many times have you abused that term? ! If there's something you don't like, let's say, in Budapest, then it's going to be a priority investment in the national economy. If you want to avoid public procurement or funding it or any other rules or regulations that apply to everything in an investment, then it will suddenly become a priority programme of national economic importance. You're also here, aren't you, based on this practice, on reason that you're afraid that you're not going to use it for what it was going to be used for again? My fellow Member Nacsa said that this sector has suffered enough. I think that's what we agree on. You want to help. I don't think we can even see it, and even the sector can't see it. Then we hope that when the sector opens its eyes, they will see that this is a help. That's not how it looks at first. But you left me no doubt in this sector, you could have helped me. Last November, you asked hotels and restaurants and asked the recreational industry to close down to protect health, basically rightly. They asked me to shut down, and they brought the rules of the German Kurzarbeit, which they used to explain to me that they were dating him like Polish engineers with the Fiat, and they developed him until he became a little Polski. There was also a tender instead of normative support, the tender was 50 percent, it was not 80 percent support, it was complicated, and indeed, Mr Secretary, it seemed that there were a lot of restaurants, hotels, gymnastics, and that he was given a deficiency order under the tree and to the place of the heating account. You know it, we know it. Minister Gulyás stood on one of his briefings from one foot to another and said that 7 billion out of the 27 billion transferred to this place had been paid by February. Are you sure it was the restaurant guys' fault why they didn't make this system more flexible? November, December, January and February, four months! So when you say you need help, you could have helped. It's over-mandated. If I remember correctly, perhaps even the Prime Minister said that he was not satisfied with this system, because it is too complicated to ask for it. That's how it turned out for the owners of this sector and for the employees of this sector, you didn't help under the Christmas tree, but rather simply a deficiency order. I'm not gonna tell you a big secret: that's why you can't get anything at the store. So I think there's experience in helping you. We see the huge international examples, we are pleased that Slovenia, Malta, Andalusia; we would have liked to have had more of these examples from Europe, and, where appropriate, let us say, of course, these are not small tourist destinations, but it would have been better if larger countries had participated in similar projects and completed them. But what our biggest problem is that now, through an IT system, which, by the way, is likely to be one of the members of the oligarch family appointed by the government and the rest, which is usually going to be software run by it, we have to let you into companies' accounts, because you want to see it. These companies won't want to watch each other. If they want to know something about each other, imagine, they know each other, they know a lot about each other, and if they don't know something, they ask. You want to see it because you want to put your hands on it. There's a reason the rumor goes all over Budapest in the catering industry and in the hotel industry all over the country that you have to do well, and you can get money, because you can't get money if you're not well. Anyone who likes their hotel gets their hands on it. It's not more complicated than that, and for that, you've found a tool that's a rating system, and obviously a system where you can extract more data. How can you get more data from this than, say, the NAV? Why isn't that enough? [[To the intervention of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Yeah, because there's no access to it, that's right. Thank you very much for the honour, yes, because there is no access, you had to create one that had access, you had insight, and then how did they say it? They will put entrepreneurs in a position, but, well, not the honest ones, but the ones they do. That is why we will not support this. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-26-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csárdi, on behalf of the LMP Group, withdrew his intention to speak as a speaker. For further speeches, the factions did not come forward, and we reached the end of the keynote speeches. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/16220 for the development of tourism. Parliament was discussing bill No. 1980, and I felt as if I were writing 1980, sitting in front of television, and one of the pro-state ministers was presenting the future bill. [[For signal:]] My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, and my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Minister of State, laugh because they did not live at that time, and I did not know the mentality, the government, socialist government mentality about how we, the state, will tell people everything about what to do and how to behave. Moreover, since we know that the past is often beautiful, and people tend to want the worse back, I do not want to forget, and neither past is beautiful, which was not nice, I will read the parliamentary speeches under the former socialist system in order. If I put the Secretary of State's exposé in there for a day, it wouldn't stand out, because this proposal is nothing but a peeping law. [[Defiance.]] It's a peeping law, that's what I called it. Each element is about peeping. What's the problem here? The problem is that there are still a few tens of thousands of people in Hungary who have a small house in which they can rent an apartment; the family inherited a house that they do not have to move in and create a pension in it. There is still a social layer that has an independent resource to survive. And you, acting out that you want to qualify accommodations with state resources, and you want to support these accommodation providers by developing IT systems, are doing nothing but stomp on them, stomp on their lives. I would like to say that in a market economy, it is not the responsibility of a State or of a State to classify any type of operator. Market participants are rated by the market; if there is demand and supply is found, the transaction has been concluded and the market participant is grateful and well. The State has no right and, in particular, does not have any obligation to classify market participants in terms of market conditions. [[11.30]] This is a level of intervention in this market segment, I think, and it will be similar in all of them, but they have not yet invented the beautiful text that can be produced, this is an intervention of a degree that I think if there was a greater ability to assert interest for simpler accommodation providers, because I am not talking about Lőrinc Mészáros and his associates, of course, they would have a greater voice. You do nothing with this rule but put all accommodation providers on a leash, and you will try to make sure that the accommodation services of the oligarchs around the government are at maximum to achieve market information and market espionage with this system, which is practically fully vulnerable to people, and we will see that if they are introduced, in a few years, they will either be taken away by force from people, or they will be made impossible, because they will be given a rating and publish that people will lose their will. By the way, I'd like to tell you that you're traveling, too, when there's no epidemic, we all know that we can be pretty safe to book accommodation anywhere so that we know about what we can expect, because even the toilet sink is in the photos and the floor plan and the square meters and the curtain color, the colour of the curtain and the shape of the chair, so if you can't assess where you're going today as a user of accommodation services, what grade it is, it doesn't even want to travel. In the past 15 years, not only in Hungary, but also in the world, tourism and tourism providers have had such a huge development as to attract people's interest in a given accommodation service or tourism business that does not require any state intervention. What I can tell you is that if we ever steer this thing, we're gonna shut it down right now, and we're gonna stop all of this looking into it. What is the Hungarian state's expectation about a business, what is its expectation? Do not carry out any criminal activity in the course of its operation; report your employees with the wages you pay them, or withdraw your contributions from them, and pay them; pay taxes on your activities, and this is a moral issue that does not undermine our country's judgment. This is the maximum right of a state to intervene with a housing provider, nothing more. The market is theirs, and the market is used by those who use the accommodation, and they decide what its quality is; not to mention, there are very many ordinary citizens who cannot afford expensive accommodations and are satisfied with the type of accommodation that is about the same as their home. And will you, with this rating system, qualify these accommodations and publish that you do not go to Mrs. János Kovács's apartment room, because there are curtains and upholstery and bathrooms that are at home in the panel apartment? But some people want to use it because they can afford it. I'll tell you the truth, I don't know who those people are... because you're not Members, and you're not the Secretary of State. So don't get me wrong, you have nothing to do with these proposals, and I want you to be excused, because you're just doing what you're supposed to do, but I'd like to meet the people in whose brain these sick rules are conceived, who make you and your fidesz fellow Members believe that this is a matter of good intentions; whereas you know exactly if you read it, if you think about what this is all about, it's nothing but peeping. I ask you very, very much not to provoke entrepreneurs, not to provoke society. We are trying to bring their voices here, it is not about us, it is not about our business, although we are sitting here in this Chamber, it is not a fellow Member who, I know, has exactly the same business, and he will not like it very much either. Do me a favor and keep your head down a little bit. It's not socialism, it's capitalism, and I really don't want Chinese state form, and I really don't want Chinese state organisation for society and the economy. In '90, we went on a journey that none of us wanted to go back from. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2021-05-26-40	Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I am giving the floor to my fellow Members on a normal time frame. Statement will be made by Mr Zoltán Varga, DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My fellow Members are closing their ears now, because I am going to praise the pro-government politicians. I listened to Mr. Csaba Dömötör's exposé and contributions from fellow politicians, and I observed that they did not even smile. Let's say, Pityu, my buddy would say that they didn't laugh at the story, but of course we're in the House, so we don't say that, we know very well, but in fact they didn't even smile, even though if someone did, you know the funny background of this whole thing, the tenth of what you've just said here isn't true. Because you don't care what's going on with Auntie Kovács's paying service or the fate of any of the little quarters around Debrecen, and you know that this is all about the Orbán family and its enrichment. Now, let's peel the reality out of the intricate story. What happened? What happened was that for approximately one billion forints, the Hungarian Tourism Agency equals Ráhel Orbán and his circle of friends, so once again he worked out how to take the rating system away from the hotel association for one billion forints. A Hungarian Tourism Quality Certification Board has been established equal to the friendly circle of Ráhel Orbán and István Tiborcz, which will otherwise qualify Lőrinc Mészáros, I would also say that the yard gas planter or mangalica mechanic and István Tiborcz, the newly acquired hotels of the family light bearer, the hotels which, as my fellow Members have said, have received billions of European Union or state subsidies, which, of course, do not have to be repaid, while dozens of workers have been released, and these are likely to be the hotels that will receive new stars. Now, Mr. Secretary, you're holding your head, too, because you realize that's true. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We are at the point that you have practically created a completely dysfunctional system, because we know very well that not only are there accommodation seekers abroad, but hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are also looking at sites to book what accommodations everyone knows, and I do not want to be the place to advertise here, which is why I am saying a foreign company: booking.com, which you cannot manipulate stately in any way. Everyone there can look at it, decide what accommodations to book, there are evaluations, otherwise we don't need billion-dollar family businesses. And I have to say that you should be ashamed of yourself, otherwise, because what you people are building here with your little footage system is nothing more than the most despicable dictatorship, when the dear daughter of the dear leader steals the hotel industry, steals the tourism industry and spends a few more days, and we will see that the son of a dear leader who graduated from a nice, fresh military academy will get the control of the army, because this is about what every sick dictatorship looks like, and you are now hitting the exact same river, hitting the exact same dirt, and trying to wrap it into a syrup madness covered with national glaze, so that it might be nice to the Hungarian people. [[11.40]] But you're actually smart people, you know that this whole system is not going to work. This is about nothing but what we see here in Parliament: stealing, shameless, vile and lying theft, how the Orbán family can be richer. And now we're talking about not only bowing down for the hundred billion, but also for the one billion that can be disarmed, otherwise this is the seat rating. system. But believe me, this story will end someday, because people can see very well that you stole the Balaton. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] You can see very well that Lake Neusiedler is being colonized right now. We are also aware that we will take it back. The first Dobrev government will be the one to return Lake Fertő, Balaton to the Hungarian people [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The cottage, too?]] The honor, the honor, the one you've just thrown into the mud, the one you're putting around, the one you're closing now, because the Orbán family's grandchildren are growing, so let them have a bath. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-42	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Barcza, Fidesz Group.
u2021-05-26-43	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I listened to the lead speakers, and I had a lot of thoughts. I'm trying really hard to be brief. Some are political, some are professional. I think that this debate, the debate of the Tourism Act, should or should reflect professionalism as much as possible, because if we completely ignore professionalism, we will not come to a position. So if someone asks what the NTAK data is for and doesn't understand what it's good for, what it can do with it, what a huge competitive advantage it could be for all Hungarian tourism providers, I wouldn't get involved in a professional debate either, because then I think there's nothing to talk about. The rating system has also made quite a lot of strong statements that they receive stars and have been tied to this NER theme. Go away, there were rating systems now, there are facts here, how many square meters the room needs, what bed it takes to get from two stars to three stars, sofa or bed is suitable, we need a separate bathroom in the room, we need a dining room. These are objective things that rating means. I don't think so, and I don't think we should assume that these objective things can be overwritten in subjective terms, because someone owns a place, there's no separate bath, but they get the four stars. I find this absurd professionally. Therefore, the development of the rating system by category is based on a very strict objective regulatory system and has been based on this, and it is the case in other countries, I have to say this. Finally, I would like to reply to my fellow Member, Zoltán Varga, that I am interested, on the one hand, in saying that he went out to see what was going on with the small accommodations and mentioned Booking here. Of course, anyone logged in there in an hour and uploaded any photos and any description of himself, there's no control. A rating system is needed so that both domestic and international guests arriving can book accommodation according to a predictable consumer protection rating. Actually, the point of a change of laws is that's what I think it's about. That is why I think that we should not engage in a political but professional debate and that everyone should support the proposal. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-44	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. To Congressman Barcza, there is only one sentence that he said that you do not believe that objective things can be overwritten by subjective things. Congressman! You've been doing this for the last 12 years, overwriting objective things with subjective things, making laws for your own good, making personalised laws in this House, and we can continue to see what they are. I have just listed the most recent examples in my speech before the agenda of what they are allowing themselves and why they are punishing, say, opposition representatives or withdrawing the floor. That's all there is to it. In the speeches by Congressman Nacsa, I can also say that we are used to it, at least I am getting used to you never telling the truth. But all you have to do is react. All you have to do is respond to that lie tsunami you told me. Let's start with your first sentence. He said I didn't listen to his secretary of state expo. Yes, Congressman. I sat here and I listened. So what does that mean, what you said? You lied to me! Then he also says that he attaches sentences to me, by the way, he was sitting here, yeah, it's true, he was talking to one of his fellow Members, so I'm sure he didn't listen too much to my speech, and that's why he's putting sentences in my mouth that I didn't say. So what does this mean again when you say that Congressman Szilágyi said that, but you didn't? That you lied! But I'll tell you one more time, in case you're listening, there's no one around, and maybe you understand in context. I didn't attack the tender. I have attacked you, honourable Member, that the Hungarian Tourism Agency will issue a tender for non-refundable funding of HUF 84 billion, and more than half of it, so once again, more than half of it will be taken away by the NER riders, who I have listed earlier, the Garancsi, the Butchers, the Tiborczok. This is what I am attacking, Congressman, to bring these people into competitive advantage over other operators, as I say more than half, once again, so these people, Lőrinc Mészáros, took 18 billion alone, almost 20 billion, which does not have to be repaid, which puts them at a competitive advantage. That's what I said! And then he tells me he's listed all the good things you've done, and how grateful the hosts and everyone else are. Well, Congressman, get out of here. Ask the caterers how pleased they are with you. Ask the hosts how much help they got from you during the plague. Go ask them, and I'll see if when he gets back here, he'll be as happy as he is. Then you could even go to the municipalities, ask the municipalities how much compensation they received from the loss of tourist tax and fees this year! [[Lajos Rig: How much for next year!]] Go and ask them. They got zero forints, and we didn't see any funds in the budget or any other source that they might be compensated for. And then he told me what good measures you've taken. Of course! You know, when you were supposed to prepare for the second wave in this country, and then, a year ago, in the summer, when we knew what the consequences of the first wave were, and we could have prepared the government for the second wave, you did two things, not prepared for the wave, not for the health care, not for the wages of health workers. No! Two things were done: one, they were on the air, they went on vacation, and two, they were throwing money to their friends, for example, during this period they also gave two billion forints to Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz, for example, for port development in Keszthely. Well, you know, these are the problems. That's what we should be dealing with. It's also true that you've been very strong lately, since I'm on the air and you've pointed at yourself, I don't know, maybe you've been on this yacht. It's possible I don't know, or maybe you've been yachting with László Szíyi. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Nacsa Lárinc: Who's lying?]] But if we're gonna keep up with the ratings, they might have had a problem with certain accommodations, and let's say, that's why we needed the Fidesz faction meeting, which was actually held between 16 and 18 June, they canceled the reservation at a hotel, because the environment might not have been high enough. Maybe the hot tub wasn't right, there wasn't enough pool, or they weren't going to serve you lunch with silver cutlery. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] And that's why they're gonna find another hotel that's probably offering you a lot more luxury services. The end of a word is a hundred I am pleased, by the way, to hear Lőrinc Nacsa's speech. [[Nacsa Lárinc's intervention.]] I'm used to this, but press the button, Congressman, we'll listen to you, say whatever nonsense you want, and we'll listen to you. So I am pleased with Lőrinc Nacsa's speech because he confirmed that you are also preparing for free robbery in the field of tourism services. [[11.50]] They want to rob this sector. They wish to absorb this sector for themselves, to Viktor Orbán, to NER buddies, to Rachel Orbán, and we could still list the people that you put in position and try to crush the others. This is your policy, this is your strategy, preparing for their fall in 2022, and trying to ensure in every respect that they will somehow try to survive these times of distress. I am saying that such laws will not succeed, because every normal, democratically-thinking government will abolish and annihilate such laws. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-26-46	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked to speak again because I am not sure that I was completely clear about everything, at least that is how I heard it from the speeches. I thought I'd shed some light. Land, tramps, casino, and here comes the hotel. Or maybe I missed something. These are the markets that you redistributed; where there was always, of course, a part of the people who felt that they had actually received something, started a race and won, but that was only because that segment, those little tramps, that piece of land you didn't care about, and then, of course, take it. And now it's gonna be the same for hotels. I say to my fellow Member, Barcza, it is always that the form usually looks like a transparent, transparent thing, and then comes the content. We remember the land licenses, remember how the guy who made it 15 to 25 years ago was thrown out of the tramps, and he was replaced by the guy who could pay for what he had to pay for, and he could write the good application. And how did it happen at the casinos? It can only be a reliable, scanned person who runs a casino. And that's when the practice comes, where the NER system comes out of a system of criteria that is particularly objective, although subjective, to steal hotels. 'Cause there's gonna be other aspects, but these aren't written here, so please, you can get another star, you just have to do it with the development money, and you're gonna have to do it with it. Let's at least pretend to be living in this country. Then you can get another star, stay there as manager, maybe sell your company. Put your hands up if you've never heard anything like this. There aren't many of us, but I can tell from this that everyone has heard that. So there is a good-looking system of considerations, a national system, a government system that will redistribute this market, and there will be, and we can even see now that there are people who are much nicer to you, and they tend to win a lot more on grants. For some reason, they do not receive loans, they do not even receive subsidised loans, but grants. At least in the report, there was someone who told us that it would be that these people would buy the best hotels in Hungary. There will be, of course, 15-20 percent who will work well, because there is something to show for it. They're gonna steal all the rest. That's what we're afraid of, I'll say it again, because that's our experience with you. And now we have no illusion left. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-26-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-26-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm a little disappointed after the last few minutes because we've heard a lot of frivolous allegations. That is what we know about the fact that individual left-wing parties compete with each other in the big speech and in the inability to make statements. I would like to respond to two small things in order to respond to serious claims afterwards. In relation to Klára Dobrev returning the Balaton to the Hungarians, I would just like to say two things. Before the outbreak, we saw record years at Lake Balaton, and even last year's season was strong despite the period of the epidemic. If a little bit of what you claim to be true about the Balaton, that wouldn't be true. On the other hand, as regards the taking of Lake Balaton, or I don't know how you put it, you should tell me, please, that my party president has privatized your Balaton woman or yours under dubious circumstances. The ceiling's going down a bit while it's high when you're referring to privatisation while you're on the government, and even before that, the state's assets have been scattered. You're kidding. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And as for your comment on whether I smiled or not, I think that during an epidemic, when there are economic difficulties, there is no reason for smiling, but there is a reason for work. I might have smiled if you'd come in here wearing a tinfoil helmet like you did at one of the events. Then I might have smiled. As far as the more serious points are concerned, several people have been involved in reporting... [[To Dr. László Kács:]] Allow me, Congressman, to tell you that I have also listened to you. Well, as far as the obligation to provide data is concerned, Mr Szilágyi has raised the question of what the authority has done with this mass of data. For example, this data indicates that the number of guest nights in 2020 is 23 million. This is important because when the government decides on tourism agency subsidies, it does not matter at all what the real situation is in the tourism sector. For example, when it is decided that due to the closure because of the epidemic, the government will grant a significant refund to the service providers concerned after booking nights, it is important to know how many booked guest nights this means. Among other things, this system is useful. Or, for example, when the government announced an unprecedented aid scheme for private accommodations, a large number of accommodations in the grey zone were found and registered when the hope of the aid was there; therefore, it bleached the sector. To your point that this is a burden, I would like to tell you that, as previously the hotels received significant help from software, manuals, educational videos, and even online education, the same help is given to the catering facilities. In our approach, the administration will be online and not paper-based, reducing administration rather than increasing it. As far as the rating system is concerned, you had a suggestion that you would be informed primarily about social media areas. However, this does not answer the problem, honourable Member, what if the provision of data is false, what some accommodations claim about themselves is not real. In 2018, there was a comprehensive study, based on which 25 percent of stars were not used in a well-founded manner by some accommodations. Now, this problem is addressed by the single rating system, which is based on international standards, with other countries using a certification system in a similar way. I do not know which of my fellow Members raised the issue of booking.com. The fact is that booking.com will follow this rating system. It is also helpful for them to have a uniform rating system in Hungary. As to the point, perhaps my colleague Varga-Damm put it this way, in whose brain such a proposal is being made, I would like to reply to this: hotel association, camping association, Association of Hotels and Restaurants, Association of Village Accommodations among the organisations involved in the development of these proposals. [[12.00]] There was another sentence that struck my ear, from Congressman Szilágyi, that state intervention is counterproductive in sectors where there is competition. Really? So you don't think in the past year and a half the government should have given any support to the tourism industry because there is competition, by the way, is that your position? Because that's what he said. Then stand up, stand up to the public and say that you don't want any government help for the tourism sector. [[György Szilágyi: It's different at the time of the epidemic!]] I'm sorry. I'm quoting you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You said state intervention was counterproductive. [[György Szilágyi: Not during an epidemic! They're shutting down stores!]] That's not the position we're taking. We believe that there is scope for this type of aid beyond an epidemic and an epidemic situation. As far as targeted subsidies are concerned, let me just point out one thing which in itself disproves what you claim. 14,000 private and other accommodations were renewed during the epidemic. That's 44,000 rooms. Only this alone means 42 billion forints of support. So if we were to go in your opinion, then this support would not exist at all, then 14,000 accommodations would not have received any support during the months of the epidemic. And to say something else, because this is not the only support the government has decided: then there would be no wage support in the tourism sector, there would have been no tax reduction for employers, no increase in the amount charged to the SZÉP card, as the tax burden had otherwise been reduced. Then you wouldn't support this either. To say one more thing, the government has secured a zero percent loan using the Széchenyi tourist card. In order to say something less: no public service charges were paid for the terraces, after the reservations after 8 November the government decided to refund 80%, which was a significant help during that period. I remember the arguments at the time. I had a fellow Member from the opposition benches who also took him away from the fact that there were hotel reservations at all during this period, and there was a significant refund for them. Let me tell you one more thing: the VAT on meals delivered has dropped from 27 to 5 percent. This is one of the many forms of support that the government has decided on. Back to the original bill. Although I'm a little sorry that either you didn't read or read it, here the big speech is more important. By 2019 the number of guests in Hungary was close to 13 million in accommodations, the number of guest nights exceeded 30 million, it was around 31 million, half of which were domestic and half by foreign tourists, and in the pre-2020 period, tourism growth was twice the economic growth, which is also a unique growth on the European scale. This is why we could say that the tourism sector accounts for 13 percent of Hungarian GDP and in some form ensures the livelihood of 450 thousand Hungarians. These figures wouldn't have turned out that way, and that wouldn't have been the case if what you're saying about tourism was a little bit true. So, all in all, the bill before us promotes digitalization, creates a uniform rating system, thus replacing an old debt and creating a category of touristic priority settlements. I regret that the latter has not been mentioned, but perhaps we will replace it at the next stage of the debate. To sum up: this proposal deserves to have the support of the majority of the House and Members, even because it is preceded and surrounded by a broad professional consensus. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-26-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. The 2015 CV on debt settlement for natural persons now follows. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The submission submitted by our fellow Members with Mr Péter Harrach and Mr Lőrinc KDNP T/16212. available on the House's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-51	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will bring to this House a topic that will not become a campaign topic, because it is a matter of helping people in difficult situations. As a Member, we often meet families who are in a really difficult situation, including those who cannot repay the borrowed loan, not because they do not want it, but because they do not have the means to do so in that particular situation of life. It could be losing a job, it could be a family tragedy or something. They were trapped in a debt trap, bankrupted in a family, and need help. In a minor case, family or friendly help may be involved, but if the situation is serious, it requires legal help. If you look back on the recent developments, you will see the foreign exchange loan bail-out package, the National Asset Management programme, and the introduction of the private bankruptcy institution will be added to this. What is included in the law on debt settlement for natural persons? The essence of this law is that it is a new legal institution aimed at avoiding individuals from a debt trap. We introduced this law in 15 with the intention to amend it later, since the narrow gate must be opened wider if there is a need for it. It's not about letting go, it's about letting go of debt, it's about restoring solvency. What important aspects appear in this law? The consensus between the debtor and the creditor is a very important issue, since it is not a struggle, but a cooperation, without which it is not possible to achieve the double aspect for which the law was created. One aspect is that creditors can count on the reimbursement of a specified proportion of their claims within a more predictable period, not always the total, but the specified proportion. And most importantly, the debtor can start his life over by getting rid of debts. Of course, it follows from the genre that there is a need for a change of life, without which it cannot, because in our world debt must be paid, and it is the job of the state to help families who become unable to pay by restoring solvency. This is, of course, in the interest of the financial institution, and it is therefore necessary to establish a consensus. Some of the elements of this law are allowed to be mentioned. It's about the suspension of execution, the foreclosure. This is extremely important, because this is what makes it possible to keep a home in an emergency. The family bankruptcy service, which helps to achieve this cooperation, works by drawing up a plan with the debtor, a five-year plan for repayment. As I mentioned, of course, there is also a need for a change of life in order for the debtor to be able to preserve his home. [[12.10]] The amounts included in this plan are such as the subsistence costs, the repayment amount, which must obviously be less than what was before, and after the five-year repayment period it will be possible to waive part of the debt. There was an amendment to this law when it was not possible to enter the private bankruptcy because of the participation in the National Asset Management Programme, but when that program was completed, this option was opened to the participants. The question is how many people took advantage of this opportunity. 2137 bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated. Of these 342 have already been completed, and about 5 to 6,000 people are affected by this participation along with family members. We can ask whether it's a lot or not. Obviously, more is needed to save more families from this difficult situation. As I have said and this is the purpose of the amendment now, there is a need to change the possibility of participation by extending it. That's one of his goals. But there is another purpose of the amendment, which is to solve the administrative difficulties that have arisen in practice. Let us look specifically at what is included in the amendment. The first goal, as I mentioned, is to allow more people to use private bankruptcy. This requires a change in the proportion of debt and wealth. So far, it was in force that a hundred percent of the debt had to be made in respect of the part of the use of the property and the proportion of the income earned over the five years to be included in it in order to make use of it. There was a limit, that's twice the limit. We just delivered the lower limit to 80 percent. This is what repayment means, repayment of a significant part of the debt and recourse to the option together. Of course, the restriction remains that private bankruptcy cannot be initiated in the event of debt being more than double the amount of property. Another change is that debtors are able to meet administrative conditions more effectively. Therefore, the proposal requires creditors to draw up, at the debtor's request, a detailed statement of their outstanding claims and ongoing claims enforcement procedures and to provide it to the debtor. I do not say that it is general, but we often find that financial institutions are not readily available to debtors who have chosen private bankruptcy proceedings. This amendment helps employees of the family bankruptcy service when examining the conditions of entry. Moreover, the obligation to carry out an environmental study is removed, which, according to the participants, has not yet resulted in any results. The third amendment item is about determining the minimum instalment. So far, it was true that 7.8 percent of the property's turnover had to be paid one-twelfth a month. We just delivered it to seven percent. This represents roughly a 10% reduction in the minimum instalment. I could also mention here that, because of the various administrative tasks, a certain margin was imposed on the debtor. This was also delivered, reduced by a third. There is one more important item, which is the fourth amendment proposal. The daily expenses of the debtor's livelihood were a certain amount of retention, which was HUF 42 750 at the time of the birth of the law. It has been valorized, and it is even higher than that, 57,000 forints per person, and this amount is monthly for three people. It has increased from 28 500 to 42 750 for persons over three, i.e. by an average of approximately 15 thousand forints per person. There is another amount that debtors retain in shaping their own way of life, in spending everyday life. This has been doubled and account has to be taken of the grossly ill or disabled family members or the per capita amount of housing, utility charges, housing insurance, common costs. Ladies and gentlemen, I can conclude by saying that the amendment of the law ensures easier access to private bankruptcy procedures, relieves the financial burden on debtors and increases the resources available for their livelihoods. Of course, this law cannot destroy the life - style change that must be done to save home in such a difficult situation, and that is the essence of this law and the amendment that is now being made that gives the debtor the opportunity to preserve his home and re-establish his life after a five - year period. I would ask everyone to take this aspect into account and vote for the amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now asking Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if you would like to speak on this matter. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Barcza. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us contains minor but more important amendments to the 2015 law on debt settlement for natural persons. The purpose of the law is essentially to restore the solvency of the debtor through responsible cooperation between the debtor and creditors and to contribute to the creation of a balanced debt settlement process for over-indebted natural persons unable to meet payment obligations. To achieve these objectives, the proposal makes a number of amendments to simplify the debt settlement procedure, reduce the burden and costs of debtors and make these claims and procedures more effective. Many of the positive effects of the amendment to the law on debt settlement for natural persons are expected for debtors involved in private bankruptcy proceedings, of which I would like to highlight only a few things. Dear House, As our fellow Member, Péter Harrach, explained in his expo, the proposal would amend the requirement for debt settlement initiative to be indebted, which is a very important part of this. According to this, if the amount of the debt exceeds 80% of the debtor's financial liabilities, it can already initiate the debt settlement procedure. The debt of this nature and of this size is already insolvent, and it is necessary to ensure that the debtor is able to use the instrument of bankruptcy protection; it is not a condition under the law for the debt to reach the value of its entire assets. [[12.20]] The reduction of the debt threshold is likely to help thousands of other people, because from now on not only the biggest in troubles will be able to use the procedure, but also those who have already reached this 80% threshold. On the other hand, the purpose of the amendment is to ensure that debtors also meet the administrative obligations imposed on them effectively. During the debt settlement process, the tasks set out in the law are performed by the Family Bank Protection Service. It is also intended to facilitate the opening of proceedings and to relieve debtors of the burden that the proposal requires creditors to draw up a detailed, free statement of their claims to the debtor, of the ongoing enforcement procedures and of the debtor's request and to give it to the debtor. This will allow the Family Bankruptcy Service to carry out a more rapid examination of the conditions for initiating the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, For debtors involved in a private bankruptcy procedure, it is also positive that the proposal increases the amount of the debtor's earnings, income, pension or any other liability at the repayment stage of the debt settlement procedure which can be used for the day-to-day expenses of the debtor, so that the maximum amount will be three times the minimum amount of the old-age pension. It is also proposed to increase the amount of alimony and compensation allowance payable by the debtor during the debt settlement procedure. Given that the minimum wage has increased significantly in recent years and that pension-like benefits are guaranteed by legislation, the increase in those amounts is timely and, of course, the fulfilment of its obligations to the debtor and the creditor remains ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the proposal before this House is to amend the rules of the private bankruptcy procedure, which is based on practical experience, as a legal institution for the removal of indebted individuals from the debt trap, which ensures a fine-tuning of the debt settlement law. The use of the procedure becomes more widely available, thus helping thousands of families in difficult situations: it protects them from total indebtedness. With the adoption of the bill, families in difficulty can make even more effective use of the debt settlement procedure. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-55	Mr President, Dear House, We have a proposal ahead of us to extend the private bankruptcy that I expected a few months earlier. After all, it can be seen that perhaps the most unsuccessful of the seemingly helpful proposals to help victims was the institution of family bankruptcy. In terms of numbers, the leader of the faction has read infinitely correct the exact figures that reveal the failure of this construction in its own form: 2137 bankruptcy proceedings have been launched over five years. About this period, more than ten thousand families were evicted in Hungary without accommodation, and here, with regard to the said 2137 procedures and 342 completed procedures, it does not show that the success rate would be 100%. So we see that we should not even discuss settling or contributing to the situation of a single family. So don't make it look like something the government makes up is bad for the opposition. No, I didn't. If there is a question where a decent Hungarian can't be a counter-suspector, that is the question. And I have to say, the numbers are alarming. The more than 18,000 evictions if we go back without accommodation by 2010 show the image of a brutal socio-social disaster that is unprecedented not only in our region, but in essence throughout Europe. If we look around the surrounding countries and look at how the need for bankruptcy protection comes from, what it is born from, typically foreign exchange credit. And when we look around our region, we see that every country is headed for the exchange rate of the day of admission. The Croatian model may be the most popular in the international press, but we can say that pretty much all governments have moved towards fairness in that if someone took on their so-called "X" credit because it is a defective product, a harmful financial creation, then let us not make a market rate conversion for these people, but approach the rate of the day of admission. It was only Hungary, where the average admission rate was legalised a market conversion of HUF 256 instead of HUF 155-160, thus embedding the original source of the institution of family bankruptcy protection, thus creating the problem. This problem arises in bulk when hundreds of thousands of people are left unaided, and the reason why I am a little bitter about the proposal that we are now proposing is because it has been apparent for five and a half years that this solution is in a dead state. I would add, Mr Group Leader, that he was here at the time when we debated the basis of this at the first point, and I praised the concept, the direction, the displacement. I immediately proposed, for example, an overseas work away solution, which meant that if someone applied for family bankruptcy protection, they had already taken away his house, they had taken away the property that was the object of the mortgage, so they should not demand an additional 6-8-12 million, so let this man be released; the introduction of the right to walk would have been entitled to the maximum. Unfortunately, we have not been able to convince the government of the importance of this, even though Hungarian families and Hungarian children have had the opportunity to lead their lives fairly. And we also see that the proposal is undoubtedly trying to favour me, but I do not want to offend anyone; this is often just aspirin for the dying. After all, what we see is that so far, you measure the amount of debt that makes you decide whether you want to help or not. In the beginning, therefore, it excludes tens of thousands of people who do not have any measurable assets and, where appropriate, have lost their permanent earnings because of their situation. While these people might be able to regroup their lives with a right-of-walk solution, if they didn't start from minus, but from zero. It is possible that if employment centres, which sometimes seem to be dead, could be able to lend a helping hand, these people could move towards a decent life. If we had a comprehensive rental program nationwide with social legs, we would be able to move again. But today we are going to discuss the law by which the remaining tenement property was to be thrown out for pennies instead of the construction of new ones by the Government of Hungary. Quite rightly, in protesting their own mayors, 90 percent of the bill has fled back, danced backwards I do not say that cowardly, because I am glad of that, for the remaining 10 percent we are still fighting so that in the Castle they can't recreate property belonging to national property for pennies. But we have to tell you: in itself, measuring the potential for assistance to existing wealth, discriminating a lot of people, excluding from the possibility of help. Once again, walking rights-type solutions should be put in place here. In itself, the low number of candidates could have occurred and developed because I do not want to suggest that the conditions are slavely strict, but they are approaching in that direction. So speaking so deeply into family budgets, where appropriate, in order to gain access to the education of children or to the health care of a relative, or not to get the cost, is completely unfair; and I think that it is possible to change that, up to a few thousand forints, to push up the line that the family can freely spend. Such a degree of involvement in privacy, privacy, deters thousands, tens of thousands of people from even considering entering the institution of family bankruptcy. But it could be a good institution, if you could grant me the right to walk away, you wouldn't want to force yourself into such deep family budgets, we would connect all this to the employment centers, and we would add the legs that made these families impossible, and which should now be knocked out, should be stopped. To give you an example: in the event of an epidemiological emergency, I would have expected from KDNP the proposal to stop implementation at systemic level among the lowest earners. So, in terms of minimum pensioners and minimum wage earners, the fact that 33 percent and 50 percent of executives could have been involved during the whole epidemic is the world's scandal, please. [[12.30]] A nation-state giving up something should not allow executives to pull off the most difficult in the case of the lowest earners, often referring to cheese paper or scraps or claims that have already been recovered. That is why I have tabled a proposal that would have made these implementations impossible, the 33 percent and 50 percent implementations for those in the most difficult situations. More than anything else, the Fidesz-KDNP voted against this proposal and did not even want to argue about it in Parliament, although in a really unpoliticised way, we would not have given compensation, not justice, but only temporary air to those in the most difficult situations. That is why I reject the fact that this proposal measures the possibility of helping people because it helps them eat this property and take it out of the pockets of the Hungarian people. That is why we can say that it is a problem that the number of people applying for family bankruptcy protection is so low. Even worse, the efficiency is so low, but it could be improved. To prove failure with numbers, 2137 bankruptcy proceedings have been launched in five and a half years. When the law came into force, the government here, in the other room, because at that time we were in our usual place because of the epidemic, promised to help 20-25 thousand victims, so not 2 thousand, but 20-25 thousand; the Hungarian National Bank also expected 25 thousand; and the Hungarian Banking Association expected 40,000 applicants. It's pretty amazing. These differences are 15-20 times, and the examination of the most common causes of rejected requests leads precisely to the fact that, in many cases, banks, according to those concerned, the proportion of debt was inadequate, obviously compared to property. That's why it's a very, very narrowing possibility that they're only helping those who still have some kind of wealth. The very nature of this poverty is that the affected family is forced to live up to every element of wealth and cannot save. Therefore, we are also calling for a new clearing law to take out contracts with a former currency or background and to examine whether the previous settlement was fair. Not in my opinion. A new accounting law would provide an opportunity to incorporate the right to walk in the case of those who, according to the new calculations, have already proven to have paid their debts. I would add that if I was found injured by seeking compensation and compensation for this, I would be open, so the door to my office will never be closed to those who would like compensation for the institutionalised scam that the Government of Hungary, the Banking Association and the executive faculty have put together. And let us not forget that, at this time, my fellow members of the Government always refer us back to the pre-2010 era, in part rightly, but when they do, let us start from the source region: from 2001 onwards. Who was in the government then, fellow Members? Who has contributed to such opportunities for unilateral treaty amendments that have led up to the spiral? So if you refer backwards to the past, I would ask you to do this correctly and to start from your own proposals for an amazingly failed solution. And then, of course, everyone in the flow chart can be criticized. The one who allowed this debt to increase so that it became unmanageable, but there have been evictions since 2010, the loss of more than 18,000 families' homes. I claim to you that giving up the various processes of family formation or family planning in these families, so the fact that they were taken away from them, this can also be seen from demographic data, and it will further worsen the amazingly difficult situation in which Hungary is in. So we're going to get you to a new settlement law, to think about it, obviously not the parliament will decide on the general interest rate increase, but let's say, the Hungarian National Bank, but at least look at the impact it has on the former foreign exchange victims. I think their burden will be the best lifted in the coming years. And think about what can be traced back from the missing parts of the social safety net, so that these people at least remain in their current situation, so that they do not get into a more difficult situation. I've already mentioned the solution to the right to walk away. The moratorium on eviction must be maintained, in my view, until the next parliamentary elections, so that a national unity government, which I hope stands up, will find a solution that will make it impossible to evict families with children, especially in Hungary, without accommodation. This does not mean that we want to give a family house to everyone, and also to those who do not cooperate with the authorities, there is no such thing, but we need a decent roof over the head of every child in Hungary. I think there can be no debate in this. I've mentioned the ban on executors, 33-50 percent bans in an epidemiological situation. I think this is an absolutely tolerable issue, which can be reached on the basis of the opposition and the ruling parties on the basis of fairness. And let's not forget the views on the rental segment, here we have to start mass housing. Our concept is basically market-oriented: it would raise 5 to 10,000 apartments per year, and it would do so with budget money. It would give a good part of the management of municipalities, but it is also necessary to implement a social leg here, so that people in need can also get affordable housing for up to half the current market fees. And it must be made absolutely clear that the introduction of an Austrian-German social point system into a housing scheme can be a solution that not only helps those in need, but also provides substantial assistance to our fellow countrymen working in sectors of national strategic importance. So in itself, if you will not doubt us, then this package may even be eligible, but accept our observation that this aspirin is for the dying. Be a little braver, touch this system more widely now. I do not understand either because if you want to use political capital to help as many families as possible, this would be your opportunity, fellow Members. Do it, take out all these gross contributions to family budgets that almost resemble slavery. Make this system a little more lively, fresher air, fresher climate, and then the victims will come forward, for whom substantial help can be provided. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2021-05-26-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am pleased that in the Judicial Committee there was more support than government parties for the inclusion of the current bill in the series of articles. I would like to say that, first of all, I would like to speak in the voice of thanks. I would like to thank the employees of the Family Bank Protection Service for their work over the last five years. I would like to thank you for standing next to the families in difficulty, haunting them, caring for them, helping them. And I would also like to thank them for the fact that, in part, this bill could have been drawn up from their experiences, this is the current amendment, since it has been five years since the introduction of the institution of family bankruptcy protection, and it is important to filter experience from time to time; to see how this institution works on the ground, how it helps families to do so, in the same way as any bill or every institution, and to see that some amendments are necessary. It is the experience, the field experience that has shown the demands that the entry threshold should be a little lower, that the different options be extended a little, and that is how this bill was born, on which I would like to thank Péter Harrach for his work in this regard, because he has been working for months on the construction, the amendments that we can now discuss here in the form of a bill. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned the social safety net. There is basically a difference in perspective between us, between the two sides, but I personally consider the work to be the first and most important element of the social safety net. Work is the first and most important element of the social safety net, and after work comes all the other elements of the social safety net, but the most important element is work. My fellow Member has spoken here, and we have often debated this issue, the issue of foreign exchange credentials, and he has made decisions here in 2001. Let's look at the ratio of foreign currency loans in the Hungarian loan portfolio in 2001-2002: it was less than 1 percent, 0.8 percent of the total Hungarian loan portfolio was the share of foreign currency loans during that period. Let's look at the ratio of foreign currency loans by 2008-2009: it went up above 60 percent in the Hungarian loan portfolio, in multiple quotes, due to the beneficial activity of the socialists. And Congressman has also spoken about the issue of eviction. Mr. Congressman, I want you to play with the idea of what would have happened if we hadn't introduced the forintation, the exchange rate barrier and the accountability of the banks after the socialists ran amok. How many families would have been in trouble when over a million people were helped by these measures by the civil Christian Democrat national government. [[12.40]] The fact is that the socialists left a system in ruins, hundreds of thousands of families at risk of direct eviction in 2010. Immediate decisions and steps have been needed, and since then the measures taken, such as the extension of the winter eviction moratorium, are also linked to the name of the Fidesz-KDNP government, and there are countless measures that I believe will help families in distress. Such is the bill that is now before us, in which the criticism of the numbers is that about 5,000 people are affected. I think that we should not look at the number of bankruptcy proceedings, but at the number of people behind them, how many people this institution could help. Obviously, in a political debate, you can always give me one more number, I can give you one more number, but I think that if we could eat one more family and eat another, and we could help more than 5,000 people through this institution, then it is important that we have made this decision, and it is important that we set up family bankruptcy services. I think that, yes, you can help me with more, and I think that is what this proposal is about. This proposal, because it also lowers the entry threshold, because it helps, expands, broadens the range of people who can use it, so we expect that more people will be able to use it in the future. My fellow Member, Mr Harrach, spoke about the details of the proposal. I would like to highlight the amendment which would impose on banks and creditors as an obligation to draw up, at the debtor's request, a detailed and complete statement of repayments, total debt, timing and, at the debtor's request, a much more transparent, clearer picture of both the bankruptcy service and the debtor's outstanding debt and debt. I consider it very important to reduce the financial administrative burden, for example by introducing an environmental study. I consider it important not to burden debtors unnecessarily with items, administrative, bureaucratic items that are not necessarily necessary. I have already mentioned the lower entry threshold, but raising the cost of living is also a lifelike proposal, since in recent years we have seen a leap-like real wage increase in Hungary. We can see that the average wage has increased in Hungary to a much smaller extent, and it is important to adapt the cost of living to this, constantly, year after year, even during the period of the epidemic. What I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that I was pleased when, in the Committee on Justice, a broader unit than the majority of the ruling parties accepted the inclusion of the bill in the series of articles. I think that this bill is not only worthy of debate but also of acceptance. I would ask you to support me with your votes after the discussion. The KDNP faction will do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Let me begin by saying that I am pleased to hear that there is a committee that is going to include certain legislative amendments, but I must also note that this was not a opposition amendment proposal, but it was a pro-government proposal, and here it is also a criticism from me that we could once understand during this term, and it is almost a year away, that we can say that a series of opposition items has passed through Parliament. [[To the intervention of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Well, that's why, my fellow Member, a little more modestly that there are a lot of them. In 2015, we discussed this law on debt settlement for natural persons. Allow me to say that, yes, as my opposition fellow Member has already said, we made our criticisms. Regardless of the fact that we said that we should support this initiative, because if we can only help one Hungarian family, then it was worth it, but then we drew attention to the pitfalls that were justified by time. I could say, my fellow Member, Nacsa, that yes, time can justify it, and we need to see how it works in practice; but I must return to it, however, that from the opposition side here at the time more people said in the debate on the law that it would not work as you expect it to, as it seems from the figures, that all government agencies from the MNB to the ministry have calculated that more than 25,000 families can use this procedure. Compared to this, we have a very, very modest number who have been able to use it so far. After all, those opposition criticisms were confirmed by these figures. I have often written to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, on this subject. [[Dr. Pál Völner is heading for the back lines.]] And I'd like to say this quickly before you go out, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Pál Völner: I'm not going out there.]] That in 2017 a reply to one of my written questions, the Secretary of State had already shown that this system would not work as expected, that in 2017 Mr Secretary of State had already replied to me that they would consider reviewing this law and that they would initiate its amendment, because they do see that this system is not working the way it should have worked. What has happened all this time, Mr. Secretary? In 2017 he wrote this to me, that they would consider examining this law, considering taking action, initiating mitigations, and today we will be writing the end of May 2021. What I'm saying is that they've waited too long for you to see from the very beginning that you won't be able to help those families in this system and help so many families, which, let's just say, could have been good, as we've already seen in what we've read and what we've said. I think that if we are talking about housing problems in Hungary, we have also said in many debates about the opposition side that we are talking about one of the most important problems. Plus, let me get you one more thing. I wrote many times about, let's say, not with the Secretary of State, but with the EMMI, and the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, replied most of the time that the state had a statement that after they failed to save the families and were in a state of bankruptcy, and even losing their homes, how many children were put into public care. Mr. Secretary of State, let me put it this way, even though the state must demonstrate it. They dared not write down these figures, precisely because of evictions or even bankruptcy, as they lost their housing, how many children had to be taken into public care. It's one of the saddest things when a family gets to this point that the lid goes over their head, and let's just say, these children because, frankly, these children grew up in love, and they did everything they could to ensure everything, but there are living conditions where no one could help them, and that's why they get out of the family, let's say, into public care. My fellow members of the Government also said that one of the amendments was the increase in the amount of their income for the cost of everyday living. Allow me here, my fellow Member, Nacsa, to say that one of the basic tools of the social safety net is to have a job. It always sticks to me. It's not enough work, fellow Member. The paid work, the well-paid work, the kind of paid work you can take care of your family. It's not enough for me to have a job, because I can work if I don't get enough money for the job that I can pay the bills, which I can get the kid to learn, and they know very well what costs we're talking about. So, it's not enough to provide work for families, and we also need a well-paid job that families can make a living on. The fact that this amount had to be raised because of the rise in real wages, let's be honest with you that we are still talking about, even after 13 years, that we are still based on the minimum pension amount, let's say, on social benefits, which is HUF 28 500. [[12.50]] Allow me to bring this initiative here, and not only the Hungarian Socialist Party, but I believe that all parliamentary opposition parties have put forward this proposal several times on a uniform basis as to how this minimum amount should be changed. Since 2008 we have been talking about 28 500 HUF. Or I could bring the family allowance or the child's amount here, we could say a lot of things that they haven't been willing to raise in 13 years, or at least 11 years if we've only bought that since they've been in government. This is outrageous. The reason we are here is that certain good bill proposals cannot work, because we are still starting from 28 500 forints. Twenty-eight thousand five hundred forints. The problem here, my fellow Member, is not only how I referred to the rise in real wages, but also how much the cost of living has increased. I suppose, even though you don't run the household, they all go to the store for that, and you can see that prices in Hungary are not rising to that extent today. Regardless of how they try to curb inflation, we can see to what extent household maintenance costs have been released in Hungary, and they are not directly proportional to the rise in people's salaries. Nevertheless, I say that at least after that time, even if not in 2017 and 2021, that this law must be amended, but, again, I have to say, Mr Secretary, not now, we will not be able to reach the 20-25 thousand families with these easings. Perhaps it should be considered that the amendments that we have tabled, say after 2015, should be taken out and looked at what proposals the opposition has come up with and how this law could actually be drawn up so that we do not talk about two thousand families, but that we can really get to the 20-25 thousand families. We still see that this law is being refurbished, but the important solution has not yet been included in the law, so that in the end we can say that we can help every family in trouble who needs it so much to avoid bankruptcy. We are still discussing whether we are in favour of or simply abstaining from this law in this form, because I have to say again that we are working on it, and there is still not the structure of the law under which we can say that we can actually protect these families. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-26-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zoltán Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I must say, as many have already said, that unfortunately the bankruptcy procedure itself, which was introduced in 2015 on the proposal or initiative of KDNP, is a failure of the private institution. This is what the amendment before us shows. It's as much a failure as the Old Town Park. For all these reasons, and most likely all my opposition fellow Members would nod now, even though we did not talk to each other, otherwise our hearts are bleeding, because we are talking about millions of Hungarian people and hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. Although I was not a member of Parliament at the time, but I know very well that the speakers before me have also referred to this, many have already said that this will not work because those who are able and willing to repay it regularly could simply enter into bankruptcy protection. The number of these is decreasing. Now I would like to jump forward a little bit, as we can see that, unfortunately, with the passing of the current emergency and the end of the payment moratorium, another tragic situation can occur in the lives of Hungarian families. This amending proposal does not contain, inter alia, any solution to this. We are fully aware, because we live in this country, in this world too, that, despite the one-bit, stupid propaganda, most of the Hungarian people do not believe you, because, contrary to what you are saying, the Hungarian people are not stupid and simply fled from this opportunity. They know very well that the government wants their best, and for the last ten years, they've seen that if they want it, they'll take it. He took the Traficans and could be classified forever as what else. You tricked the Hungarian people, you set them up by your government. You were the culprit for this. And the Hungarian people simply decided: they do not believe you. They don't dare go into something the government is involved in, and they're gonna have to protect their remaining existence or their small fortunes. Therefore, they simply did not accept this institution. Not because the institution is bad or good, but simply because they are distrustful, because they do not believe you, because they have been deceived by the rustlings, they have been deceived, as I said before, by the housing park in Ocsa, if you remember, by the wild privatization, or you can call it a foundation, they have been deceived by the Butcher and Tiborcz. 'Cause it turns out when we talk about net average wage or even average salary, they count their wages. [[Dr. Pál Völner and Lőrinc Nacsa are coordinating. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] He has also been deceived by the crisis management, the failing crisis management that we are all now witnessing. This can be seen either in dealing with the economic crisis or in dealing with an epidemic. You can't tell me how well everything worked out here, because that's not true, because we see the gross deaths, we see what happened here. We see that while Mészáros, while Tiborcz, while the Orbán family is richer and billions are being taken out as dividends, hundreds of thousands and millions of Hungarian families are in a difficult situation. Dear members of the government, this is what we are talking about, the private failure institution, as I just said, is a failure. They can pin it in the same place as all their other failures: their booty-cheeked, mister-brother system next to their national color-band hat. The Hungarian people have decided that they do not believe you, and despite all the false, manipulated statistics, the fact remains. Only a few percent of the Hungarian people in difficulty have accepted the opportunity you offer, and this should not be surprised. This should simply be taken into account, in contrast to what you suggest, what the politics suggests, what your communicators suggest, hundreds of thousands of people would rather give up their property than choose the private failure facility you offer. We, opposition representatives, would very much like it if it weren't important for you that some families survive, become rich, but that hundreds of thousands and millions of Hungarian families. That is what Congressman Nacsa has been talking about, and even my Socialist colleague. Congressman Nacsa is grinding his own, the work-based society, and I must say that we have heard a lot, and we may even accept it. Something like that was said by my opposition fellow Member. But it has to be noted that, yes, the work is insufficient, because this work should be made a living, because what is really affecting Hungarian families now is poverty at work. They go to work, no, not as Butcher, no, not as Tiborcz, and they do not make a living with this money. The real level of net income is simply so low, and once again, its real level, and not what you lie about in the statistics, is that there is little for the people involved, otherwise the income of families forced into this bankruptcy would be such that any additional burden would be borne. [[13.00]] Unfortunately, we don't see what happens tomorrow. But we see that this current moratorium will soon pass, and indeed the masses of Hungarian families will find themselves in a difficult situation. Therefore, I believe that in order to be able to make any progress at all together, and in this we undertake to be partners with you, that if you make a real proposal to us and not some propaganda-flavoured, one-by-one material, then you have to eliminate the pay gap and increase the basic net earnings. This is what restores Hungarian families, not this well-resolved proposal. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-05-26-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have the first independent representatives to come forward. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A small correction of the private bankruptcy law has been submitted to the House by the KDNP, a correction that I think will definitely help all our countrymen in these difficult situations. But, as I said at the Justice Committee meeting, this is a fraction of the problems raised by the opposition when this bill was brought before the House. In the course of the application, it was found out that every single suggestion made by opposition representatives in the past out of good intentions and helpfulness was well founded, and that is why a few thousand people from a population of roughly one million people in debt were able to make use of this institution. When the tragedy of foreign exchange loans was already culminating by 2010, and then it became a government change, we had a very strong hope that, after the Prime Minister in this House, in the other Chamber, called the banks crooks, called this problem a nationwide tragedy, and we believed that the first measure of the new government would be that he would not allow a minimum of 10-15 percent increase in exchange rate increases, that he would close the applicability of the exchange rate increase to the loans and that he would turn these contracts back on the path of economic balance. Months passed, practically everyone in this House talked about it, people's homes and homes were taken by executives and banks and notaries to the top of the notaries' endorsements to help them lose as many people's homes as possible, so I won't leave the political stage, and nothing else happened than the government allowed them to wipe out and get out of this trap for two months in order to help my friends. Moreover, it was amazing that this was scheduled for the end of the year, when everyone knew that many people were on leave, that the offices were not working, that banks could not keep up with this solution at this rate. So there's a lot of people out there who, if they had more time, could have used it. And there was still no comprehensive solution; scraping the surface, talking about it, but we're not doing anything. Then, of course, the hardest thing is that, taking advantage of a case that went to a European court scene, where the exchange rate gap was one of the reasons for nullity, the government was able to say, "Yeah, there's nothing else wrong with these cases, but the exchange rate gap and the interest rate increase, then we lead it out, and, of course, no one talked about the exchange rate increase. In 2012, I prepared a complete private bankruptcy law, which was put into this House by an independent Member, and specifically the entire opposition did not support the ruling parties, of course, which was to focus not on a type of case, but to try to create a support medium that helps people settle debts arising from a wrong decision or a very difficult life situation and not carry it with them throughout their lives. In Hungary, the various financial institutions that provide loans or service providers, whose services are extremely expensive, can easily do so because these burdens and claims are transferred to citizens, because Hungary is specifically a place where anyone is responsible for a debt for the rest of his life if they cannot collect it from him. It can even be done that, within the limitation period, it is always recreated, called again, and the bearing of this burden begins again. Although there may be a mortgage right behind a loan, while in the Western world, quite rightly, with mortgage loans, my fellow Member, Mr.Dániel Z. Kárpát, has the right to walk away, so he cannot answer more than the value of the pawned property, the same thing can be maintained in Hungary, until there is virtually an unlimited amount and time of claims on people. Why I even thought at the time that society could only be excluded from the situation with a comprehensive private bankruptcy in this country, so that they could carry a piece of the wrong decision for a lifetime, I will tell it and I have said it before, but I will now sum up the reasons why the state has, yes, obligations and responsibilities. We inherited a social structure in the socialist system, the wage and price conditions there, and in 90, from one moment to the next, the whole society was transferred from the socialist economy to the market economy. There are only two things the system has not done: it has not built the nets under the people that would have helped those who are losing to the market economy not to fall on the ground, but to be maintained by this system. Think about it: from one moment to the next, factories, a crowd of companies closed, hundreds of thousands of people unemployed, completely hopeless about what would happen to them. How interesting, on the other hand, the market was able to ring very quickly, only the protection system against the market could not develop quickly, the prices increased with amazing speed. By the mid-1990s, inflation was 33 percent, and, in fact, Hungarian society was included in a squirrel wheel, which is extremely difficult, not only for people with a difficult fate or a difficult life situation, but also for those with a relatively strong economic background and spiritual strength. So the Hungarian state is in debt to its citizens, precisely because of the resulting and extremely many family-breaking conditions that they had to experience in the '90s. You may not believe this, fellow Members, but there are many families who have been unable to recover from their debts ever since. Since then, like a squirrel wheel, they even it out, the other one comes, they even it out, the other one comes, because there was no system that could just make a tabula rasa and start from zero points. That is why we have said that this private bankruptcy law can only address and help a partial part of it, a partial social group, and those who are in the most difficult situation and carry the debt burden from the oldest and carry everything that the system has installed on them cannot really live with it. Of course, if a proposal is good for just one person, we will vote for it, that is not a question. So it is, I think, no question for either of us to vote in favour of this proposal, because if a sentence is better for one person in our country, then so be it. But, as I said in the Justice Committee, it is not enough to deal with this problem on a systemic basis. The private institution must function as such a natural support medium for all kinds of debt-bearing situations, so that people can be sure that they will not be permanently lost, they will not be completely neglected just because they have once made a wrong decision, whether they have been forced to make a decision, and they have not been able to find another way out of the situation. [[13.10]] Those who live in prosperity, who have good circumstances, cannot imagine what a struggle it is to divide the small pennies of a multitude of people and to think about paying the water bill now, or buying shoes for the child, or buying not only the cheapest bacon, but perhaps a healthier food for the child. Yet, we who are not in this social environment in our daily lives should make decisions that make their lives easier and easier to survive. Even though the government says how much the average wage increases, the average wage is over 400,000, they must finally understand that very wide social groups have a million-dollar income, and they are extremely compensateable for the income conditions of the poor, who, on the other hand, have been forced into the state of vegetation, whether they like it or not. We politicians must be extremely generous with society. Every time we make a decision, when we introduce or modify a system of institutions, the most important thing that must appear in our attitude, in our thinking, is generosity. Someone has to be generous to people, for in their everyday life they hardly ever meet someone so that a system can be generous to him. Whoever wears the key to the state budget's wallet has such a huge set of tools that they can, whether they like it or not, be generous. Because, by the way, small generosity in society brings such powerful positive attitudes, positive changes, positive moods, from which, whether you like it or not, social and economic results can be achieved much sooner, faster and more effectively. This is a self-enhancing process, and those who do not acknowledge it unfortunately do not acknowledge society. I ask the government not to be so hard on people, because the Hungarian people, whether they like it or not, have always heard in the last 150-200 years that tomorrow or the next day will be better. Meanwhile, they always see that it will be better for a privileged layer, and it is very good, so that this privileged layer does not seem to be the work invested. I will never forget the Prime Minister's sentence, which he said a long time ago, and since then he hasn't said that it looks like the Hungarian man is looking for the overhead; you will remember it when he hoped to be elected Prime Minister. What does the Hungarian man look like when he's looking for the rent? Well, I report to everyone that 25 percent of Hungarian citizens are still looking for the rent, and then I haven't told you about the low pensioners. I believe that the institution of the private bankrupt, for example, adapting to the system of private failure in the United States or Germany, should be regulated comprehensively and put a line of protection behind people's backs, that if they have to retreat, if they are in an emergency situation, if they have difficulties, if they cannot cope with their financial difficulties, and as they retreat, do not fall back into the abyss, but that there should be a system behind them before the final step as a castle, as a fortress, and that all Hungarians can say that I live in a country in which I have to try not only to get out of my difficulties alone, but also that an entire state organization protects me. And then, fellow Members, I did not mention one very important factor. Why, against debtors, the system is so strict and so full of debts, and that is a fact, there are institutions, financial institutions, service providers who dare to do so because they are expensive, and that they are amazingly trying to make people believe that they have to take loans or buy them from credit, they do so easily because they have no limits. There is no system that stops ordering you so far and no longer. These institutions are not disciplined in lending. Service providers are not disciplined when it should be determined that the price of a service really is what it is worth, and, on the basis of the monopoly situation, they cannot demand a much higher price from people, which they cannot afford to pay. So the systems that loot people are doing this unlimitedly because they have much more rights in this country than those who owe them. There really is capitalism in this regard. But it has to be set a limit. Just because we entered a capitalist system 30 years ago doesn't mean we're inhuman. The capitalist system is not an inhuman system, it can only be practiced inhumanly. So with great respect, I would ask my fellow Members in KDNP not to stop at this proposal, to draw up a comprehensive private bankruptcy law. I'd be happy to recommend what I did nine years ago. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you that there is another person who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Harrach, as rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Péter Harrach: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-65	At the beginning of my speech, I expressed my hope that this debate would not drown in a campaign debate, but that they would comment on the proposal. This hope was partly fulfilled because I had fellow opposition Members who spoke to the question itself. The campaign text was published here and there, of course, but neither the quality nor the nature of this was worthy of my reply now. However, some questions have been raised that require an answer. Let me start with the last thing that financial institutions, generally the financial world, have much more rights in this country than they should. It's worse, Congresswoman. They have such rights in Europe, and even in the world, and Hungary cannot fully withdraw from this because of the pressure of the EU. When we are fighting for social issues and improving them, it is natural for us to face the world of money for the first time, and this struggle is not always easy. Especially when they are otherwise demanding their legitimate needs, i.e. the repayment of the loan, because it is a principle. And our job is to stress again, as in the expozee, that those helpless families who cannot, although they would like to repay the loan, should be helped to do so. This is what the law has served, and now we want to strengthen this service with your private pipe. We also need to say that the private institution does not help every family in difficulty. To be more precise, this law is not meant to solve all the problems. There are other laws. This tries to address the problem in such a way that it encourages the two parties, namely the creditor and the debtor, to cooperate. And this must be done, and this is the greatest virtue of this institution, that it preserves the home, because that is what it is for to suspend implementation. We have to tell you about the possibility of walking away. It is indeed a law in America, but there the law enforcement and the financial institutions mentioned begin immediately by auction the house and then the distribution of that income among creditors. [[13.20]] Undoubtedly, the very difficult situation is being prevented from having to pay for the details even after the auction, it is indeed scandalous. However, let us add that there is no such thing in Europe. The European approach, and I am in favour of it, is to preserve the home and not to auction it immediately. That's what your private failure is for. So much for the institution of walking away, which, I must admit, a few years ago, I myself raised, but there was no way to cross the wall. Someone mentioned the abuse of executors. Let me remind you, however, that in order to avoid abuse during implementation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, KDNP has taken action and these steps have also brought results. If I want to sum up in a sentence what has been said as a criticism, I must say that the number of uses is small, I believe, too, but we hope that this ratio will improve with the amendment and that the amendment will be modest. I think I have responded to this latter by saying that the achievement of a social issue can only be achieved with a serious struggle. And once again, I must say that it is not the government that is against this, but the money world that is supported by the Union. However, it should be noted here that the European Union strongly supports the aspects that banks represent. I believe that this debate, as opposed to the previous item on the agenda, was somehow more professional, but somehow it was in the interest of families in need of help, even if many could not resist the temptation of the campaign. But what I am asking of the Members who are present and who are not here is interesting, that there is only one of those who are against it left in the Chamber, so I ask everyone to vote on these amendments, even if they are modest, but we hope that we will continue to see the experience, if necessary, because this is a law on which an adjustment to gradual experience is required. Thank you for this advance agreement, just in the interest of the people in difficulty. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-26-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the proposal on the registration of legal persons and the registration procedure until closure. Government referral T/16206. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. For the first time, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With the bill that has just been tabled, an old vision will come true: the unification of civil and business registers and the management of applications in a single procedure is a private matter on the agenda for a long time and an objective. Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code provides for a separate part of the general rules of legal persons in the context of the regulation of legal persons and, on the basis of a common private law approach, the Act Ptk. It lays down not only substantive rules on private law but also basic rules on the registration of legal persons. The bill, however, does not only achieve the unification of civil and business registers, but also aims to achieve a much greater task. It can be observed that case management and administration of registers are still based on paper-based procedures, reflecting its thinking, even if electronic administration is possible. We can also observe that data of the same type appear in different data structures per register and that there is no adequate cooperation and consistency between registers. In addition to the need for electronic access to information, the development of the information society today, the fact that the range of data available from the registers is not uniform, in many cases the reliability of the data is doubtful and access to data is difficult. The aim of the bill is to establish a public-credited, up-to-date register of legal persons as widely as possible, from which quick and accurate information can be obtained. In the case of legal persons registered by the court, the objective is to ensure that the legal proceedings are uniform and predictable. Dear House, When preparing the bill, it was a key regulatory aspect that issues that could be dealt with at a lower legislative level should not be detailed in the law. Both the establishment of a single register of legal entities and the establishment of procedures related to the register will be carried out by making extensive use of the possibilities provided by IT. However, the bill does not contain IT details, because they can be dealt with in implementing legislation. The creation of a single register of legal persons has a number of advantages in itself. The registered data circuits of each type of legal entity may be harmonised. The information available from the register will be provided by a modern service based on a new registration platform. A registration portal for legal persons will be established, which will act as a platform for anyone on the Internet. It will be possible to deal with cases, to request information and to obtain general information through the portal. The Company Communication will also be available on this website. Ladies and gentlemen, Individual types of legal entity will be gradually integrated into the register of legal persons. In addition to companies and civil society organisations, the register of legal entities shall include registration of legal entities, law firms, public bodies not included in civil record, higher education or public education, investment funds, European territorial associations, legal entities set up by law, and other legal entities or entities whose integration will gradually be possible. (Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. István Tiba.) A major change in private law is the fact that civil and business register entities and condominiums are placed under a single court register. The legal entities registered with this court register are referred to in the proposal as "organisations'. The separation of courts that register organisations will also cease, and in the future we will no longer be able to talk about separate court courts. The proposal does not change the effects of the registration of a court, so that organisations as private entities continue to be created with the registration of a court and are terminated with the deletion of the court. However, the role of the court in the registration and registration procedures is changed. The proposal also sets out in a normative way the responsibilities of the courts, the limitations of legal scrutiny. In that context, it states that the provisions of the instrument of incorporation and other registration documents, which fall within the scope of the contractual freedom of the parties, may not be overruled by the court in the registration procedure, nor may it bring an order calling for or rejecting a request for a deficiency. In the course of the registration procedure, it is the duty of the court to state that the standards which are unconditional and the Ptk. examine compliance with kogens' provisions and guarantee that the data required to be registered are formal and legally appropriate. This will mean, in practice, that the court will examine that the organisation complies with the definitive requirements of the choice of legal entity or form of company, that there is no legal barrier to the registration of members, representatives and other officials, that the information provided in the application is in form and that the documents do not contain any provision which the Ptk contains. or other sectoral rules expressly prohibit. [[13.30]] The court therefore carries out a partial invalidity investigation at the time of registration. In order to avoid the participation of as few private individuals as possible in circulation with an instrument of incorporation containing an invalid clause, the related rules in Ptk, which are set out in T/16207, are amended. They are the subject of bill No 1. A change in approach to judicial work has the advantage that the management of sematizable registration applications will be carried out by automatic means in the future. The proposal introduces automatic decision-making for the first time in judicial matters, in which only automated judicial measures will be taken. The automated decision-making process will not be completed. If the application is correct, the registration shall take place within one hour. Several conditions ensure the success of this type of procedure. On the one hand, by direct contact with public registers, vending machines will be able to verify the correctness of the data indicated in the application and, on the other hand, to communicate it to the applicant in the event of an error. On the other hand, it is necessary for the legal representative to demonstrate the conformity of the documents set out in the Annex to the application. The third condition is that cases in this category should be easy to judge and that the issues to be examined and the options to decide can be typified. Apart from public limited companies, requests by companies will, as a general rule, be dealt with by automatic decision-making, but the law's implementing regulation will determine the types of cases which are excluded from automatic decision-making. For example, the registration of transformation, merger and division cannot be regarded as a selatizable case. If the automatic cannot decide on the application for an hour, the system will transfer the case to a human evaluation course, so the application will not be stuck in the IT system. If the application is rejected, there shall be an appeal against the refusal order and the second instance procedure initiated by the appeal is not an automated procedure, i.e. a human review. If, in the course of automatic decision-making, an entry giving place to the application is made, but the registration order is in breach of a legal provision which does not give rise to a derogation, or the application has been submitted by an unauthorised person, the case may be re-examined by the judge. In that case, the judge may decide to repeal the registration order. Finally, as a general control of automatic decision-making procedures, a follow-up check is introduced, in which the court checks cases handled by automatic decision-making at random or through a targeted investigation, the documents submitted as an annex to the application. The follow-up will also be carried out by a specialist. In addition to automated cases, the proposal naturally maintains the registration cases to be carried out by the professional. The examination of applications shall remain primarily within the competence of judges or court secretaries. It should be pointed out that the ex ante verification of the application will also be carried out by vending machines in this case, so judges, court secretaries, should carry out a legal check. In view of this, these registration procedures are also accelerating. As a general rule, the court must decide on the registration or refusal of the application within 10 working days and within 25 working days in the case of civil and other non-company organisations. Specific registration rules will apply to legal persons whose registration is not carried out by the court. Such a type of legal person will be, for example, the law firm, the registration entity, the public body not included in the civil record. This category of persons is referred to as other legal entities in the proposal. The proposal does not detract from the bodies designated for tasks related to the registration of these legal persons, but merely provides that the registration body shall carry out the registration in the register of legal persons. An illustration may be that the registration procedure of the law firm will continue to be conducted by the regional bar, but the registration decision will be entered in the register of legal persons. In these cases, therefore, the Registry Court does not participate in any way, does not detract from tasks or powers. Special legal entities established by law are subject to exceptional procedures. These legal persons will be obliged to send their data to the court through the registration portal. The court shall verify the adequacy of the data to be entered on the basis of a comparison with the data of another State register and shall enter them in the register. However, it does not exercise any other judicial control or supervision in this case. Dear House, The legality supervision procedure for entities listed in the register of legal persons is maintained and its nature remains unchanged. Such procedures should also seek to speed up the process by measures that can be automated. The automatic decision-making to be introduced in the registration process will allow the release of significant human resources, which should be used in the area of judicial supervision. The reliability of the registration of legal persons is guaranteed by the competitiveness of the registration procedure as much as by the fact that the registration court acts quickly and effectively against entities operating illegally or failing to operate legally. The proposal also takes into account practical experience in the regulation of the legality supervision procedure, thus partially renewing special legality supervision procedures and partly introducing new types of procedures. A number of more forward-looking, renewed regulatory elements could be presented in the context of judicial proceedings, but let me not do so now, but draw attention to one last important area. Ladies and gentlemen, With a single register of legal persons, a particularly valuable and important public data asset is also created, with the aim of ensuring responsible and forward-looking data management and the development of competitive data reporting. For this reason, the proposal sets out guarantee rules for the disclosure of data and the provision of data. The current public disclosure and civil record-keeping rules will be streamlined. In the future, registration documents and other procedural documents will be available to anyone which can be supported by an interest in the safety of traffic. It will be possible to view the above documents in accordance with the rules of civil procedure. What is important is that in the registration procedure, in exceptional cases, it will be possible to request the non-public treatment of otherwise public documents, on which a separate order is given by the court. In the future, the recorded data will also be differentiated. The address of the natural persons in the register becomes a non-public data. When determining the registration data for each type of legal entity, it becomes a priority that only those data that are necessary to safeguard traffic safety should be entered in the register and made available to the public. The identification data of persons whose relationship with a legal person is further away should enjoy greater protection. Such a person may, for example, be the data of the natural person carrying out the audit. The establishment of a single register of legal persons will also ensure that other registers, courts, authorities, public service providers can provide up-to-date information with flexible solutions and that such persons have access to the information necessary for their task. It is also an important objective for operators, or even any person concerned, to be able to use a service tailored to their specific needs. The registration monitoring service will be introduced as a new or renewed service, enabling anyone to receive information on changes affecting their own business or other registered entities. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to draw attention to the treatment of successionless terminations, which is an independent, complex regulatory area. There is also no reason to maintain marked differences between companies and civil society organisations in this area. The new harmonised rules will be dealt with in a separate law. The technical basis for these procedures requires extensive consultations, which could not be carried out because of the epidemic situation, so these rules are not part of this bill. Furthermore, the proposal does not include transitional provisions and amendments to related laws. These will be presented later when IT preparation reaches the level where the transitional rules and their timetable can be defined with precise planning. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in agreement with the above objectives. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to pay tribute to Mrs Holman Magdolna, Vice-President of the State Audit Office, who indicated that she wished to live in the House Rule 36. The right to speak as provided for in paragraph 11 of Section 1. He will speak from his place. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor. [[13.40]]
u2021-05-26-69	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I asked for the floor in the debate on the bill on the registration of legal persons and the registration procedure because some of the provisions of the bill concerning the publication of the accounts have a significant impact on the transparency of public and national wealth management and the application of the principles of fair economic competition, the safety of economic traffic and the protection of the interests of creditors. The Fundamental Law states that all public bodies are obliged to take public account of their public finances. Public funds and national wealth must be managed in accordance with the principles of transparency and the purity of public life. It also states that Hungary will ensure the conditions of fair economic competition. The problem with this issue is that the audited organisations, regardless of their legal form, do not comply with their statutory accounting reporting obligations, do not draw up their accounts according to the requirements of the Accounting Act or do not comply with the disclosure obligation. The relevant legislation, such as the Accounting Act and the separate legislation relating to the preparation of accounting accounts, require the accounting accounts to be signed or approved by the authorised person. The signature and approval of the accounts by the holder is therefore an essential form of validity of the accounts. However, on the basis of the legal requirements currently in force, in the case of companies carrying out tasks related to the publication of the report, in the case of the Company Information Service operated by the Ministry of Justice, in the case of civil society organisations, in the case of the National Court of Justice Office or in the case of budgetary bodies, the Hungarian Treasury is not required to verify the reports sent to the public either in that organisation's possession of an authentic signed report or in respect of whether the data contained therein are reliable. This problem has been brought to the attention of legislators in several cases, most recently here in the general debate on the bill on civil society organisations capable of influencing public life. In doing so, it was pointed out that the deposit and publication of the accounts under the Accounting Act in accordance with the procedure laid down by law should not allow the accounts signed by the holder and approved by the holder not to be drawn up, which, as I said, has been experienced in several cases during our inspections. On the one hand, the bill before us clearly states that the register of legal persons demonstrates the existence of, or changes to, the data contained therein, creating a single and credible register instead of the previously fragmented and unconventional records. On the other hand, the bill correctly consistently uses the term accounting accounts, which, of course, means a report signed and accepted by the rightholder under the Accounting Act. In the event of a failure to publish an accounting report, the law associated with an appropriate sanction, which may ultimately lead to the termination of the legal person without legal successor. This will facilitate the implementation of the fundamental principle contained in the Fundamental Law, according to which payments from the central budget may only be made to an organisation whose ownership structure, structure and activity for the use of the aid is transparent, on the basis of a grant or a contract that can be concluded. However, the bill contains only the most basic provisions for the publication of the accounts. The other issues would be defined at the level of implementing regulations, since the draft law empowers the Minister of Justice to draw up and establish detailed rules concerning the form and content of the form to be attached by electronic means when submitting the accounts under the Accounting Act. Without questioning this regulatory solution, we also consider it necessary to draw attention to the fact that the development of detailed rules should not lead to the conclusion that legal persons are ultimately aware that the accounting report is the same as the electronic forms used and completed in the publication process. It is therefore important that regulations have guarantees that enforce the provisions of the law that are correctly formulated. This is essential in order to ensure transparency in the management of public funds and of national wealth, to ensure the conditions of fair economic competition and to ensure the safety of economic traffic and the protection of creditors' interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Kovács, who is speaking here at the speaker's stand. I'll wait for Congressman to get up on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-71	Mr President, Madam Vice President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The T/16206 in front of us. The purpose of the bill on the registration of legal persons and the registration procedure is to merge the register with the register of civil society organisations and the register of other legal persons, and, as the Secretary of State has established, to establish a single register, as there is currently no central register of the basic data of non-natural persons in Hungary, from which, for example, economic operators could simply be informed about a partner involved in a commercial transaction. The aim of the new regulation is to establish a common platform for records concerning legal persons currently operating in isolation, optimise maintenance and operational costs, make data flows between registers more efficient, provide for modern IT solutions and eliminate overlaps and, where appropriate, inconsistencies between registers, rationalise individual procedures and service systems, and ensure the safe functioning of central data assets based on public data assets. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to civil law relations in the classic sense, our existing civil code also includes general rules on private law persons and standards governing company law. The year 1959 was the year IV. In contrast to the law, our Code in force as a result of legislative work has therefore worked out the general rules of legal persons and has also incorporated specific rules on types of legal persons of high importance in civil legal relations. All of this means the Ptk. in addition to companies and cooperatives, it also regulates associations and foundations. As we know, they were previously regulated by separate laws. The Ptk. Its regulatory basis is a single private law approach, which means that the most important guarantee rules are not differentiated, for example, from the point of view of the formation and termination of a legal person, between the different types of legal entity. From this perspective, it logically follows that consistency must also be achieved with regard to the register. Currently, in most cases there is no interoperability and transparency between the registers that overlap legal persons, as data are stored in different forms and different structures and data are provided through different platforms. [[13.50]] For this reason, the records of legal persons cannot be effectively linked, which, in turn, limits economic competitiveness. Dear Parliament, Following the current problems and the concepts set out in the proposal, allow me to give some examples of the main benefits of a single register, which are the following. Uniform rules of procedure; rapid procedure is due to time limits of administration and registration by automatic machines. On the vending machine, Mr. Secretary of State said in detail that the registration could take place within an hour. Creating a common practice of enforcement, better management of public data assets, reducing administrative burden for customers and ensuring greater relevance of the data in the register by linking public registers. The Secretary of State spoke in detail about the appeal, the guarantee rules, but it is also important to point out that the court is responsible for the registration, deletion of private-law persons, the management of the list and the supervision of legality. In addition, the registration of legal persons was also included in the register of legal persons for which registration proceedings are carried out by an entity designated by other legal acts, such as the Register of the Hungarian State Treasury, instead of the court, but the results of the registration and the data to be registered do not need to be kept in a separate register, as they will be recorded in the single register. It was also justified to amend the company law, given that its norm clearly reflects the thinking of paper administration in the first place, taking into account the timing of its creation. It is a general procedure, whereas electronic administration is regarded as an exceptional procedure. The amendments to the last few years have not really made the legislative text coherent. The bill before us aims to introduce a major change of approach which cannot be included in the framework of the law in force in both procedural and IT terms as regards the regulation of non-court proceedings to be conducted by the court. Instead, it should be noted that the registration and registration of civil society organisations are based on company law solutions, in compliance with the law enforcement requirement. The establishment of a single registration procedure will ensure that the registration procedure of civil society organisations can be carried out smoothly, like companies. Dear Parliament, The bill introduces automatic decision-making as a new procedure in the registration and registration procedures. This will allow non-electronic non-court proceedings to become electronic procedures, in addition to the extensive automation of administrative activities. It should be stressed that legal definitions are recorded for registered entities, such as the fact that the legal person is a legal person or a non-legal entity in the register of legal persons; whereas the entity, firm, civil society and other non-company entities. One of the major innovations of the draft law is that civil non-court proceedings relating to companies and non-companies and other non-companies are referred to in the proposal as a single registration procedure, while the registration and registration procedures, as well as conversion, merger and division registration procedures are referred to in the proposal as a single registration procedure. I also consider it necessary to mention the legality supervision procedure, which aims to ensure that the register is public, correct and up-to-date. However, the proposal submitted introduces new special judicial supervision procedures, such as the legality supervision procedure initiated because of a lack of formal access under the e-Authorisation Act or the failure to publish the accounts under that Accounting Act. Dear fellow Members, Many Member States of the European Union, such as Austria, Belgium, Poland, use the register of single legal entities, which, when passing through the information age, also meets the need to speed up government decisions to respond to accelerated socio-economic developments worldwide. In Hungary, the standardization of registers takes place in several stages. In the first phase of development in 2022-23, while establishing a single register of legal persons, it integrates the records of budgetary bodies and law firms. In the second and third phases, and in 2023-2024 additional public registers will be integrated, such as the register of self-employed persons, the register of churches and the register of condominiums; this will complete the implementation of the current framework law. It is clear that it is necessary to establish these detailed rules in implementing regulations. In summary, it can therefore be said that the draft will create a unified, state-owned and secure IT environment. The rules of the new register shall, mutatis mutandis, be introduced at the level of law. The efficiency of linking data increases, processes become faster, more modern and simpler, the use of modern technologies will make it easier to eliminate errors arising from human intervention, a single database structure and procedures will be built up, and the legal background of the data processing competences of the single system managers' organisations will be laid down. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The important bill on the House's table, with the development of e-administration, is a huge step on the way to building a digital society, and therefore the Fidesz Group will support it. I'm asking for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyure, Member of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The legislation before us concerns the registration of legal persons and the registration procedure. Obviously, it is important when such a new draft legislation appears as to what the purpose of the proposal is. This is immediately stated at the beginning of the proposal, in order to ensure consistency with the regulation of the European Union, to make use of the possibilities of electronic administration, IT development and so on. Therefore, from the general justification it appears that it is indeed an important piece of legislation. If we take out the general justification of this draft law, then we can see in more detail what these objectives are, which will be achieved; this would be the consolidation of companies, cooperatives and associations and foundations into a single regulatory system in the civil code. The general justification refers to the fact that the Ptk. the need for a single register of legal persons is logically apparent from its general provisions on legal persons. Well, it wasn't so clear to me that this would be the case, and while we are at it, I have an important point in mind when I start to talk about the fact that in the last 11-12 years, since Fidesz has had two-thirds governance in most of it, a lot of legislative proposals, especially those concerning legal issues, have always referred to the submitting and generally the Ministry of Justice to the fact that we want to create the old Hungarian tradition here; so we are creating a kind of regulatory system that has always been known and worked in Hungary. Well, I see that in this case there is a different regulatory system, because in Hungary there has been a system of separate treatment of legal persons, depending on the type of legal person, which court deals with registration, who has jurisdiction, who has jurisdiction, what type of legal person it is. [[14.00]] So, in many ways, they have placed legal entities in different groupings, which may not have been good. So, just because this has been the case in Hungary over the last decades, it may not have been the right solution. Why not? You can see the huge mix that was involved in citizens, because if a citizen wanted to register a foundation, an association, 90 percent of the citizens said that they would have to submit it to the court because they would keep it in the register. They were not aware that, indeed, the companies are registered by the court, and the county court is now called a court, a former county court, for civil society organisations, such as foundations, associations, and they keep the register of this, and they are in charge of the registration of this. Well, that's a lot of problems. Although it is not certain that if this law enters into force, it will be able to eliminate this problem, but we hope that this will also be a step forward, and that, in the framework of unified procedures, it will also be much more beneficial for customers to establish these legal entities, to register for change, to terminate them or to amend them in any way. We're hoping this will make it better. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The general justification also highlights the main benefits of this legislation, and it is worth discussing. The introduction of uniform procedural rules, yes, this is also, in my view, clearly very important that these procedural rules are uniform and that it is also important to ensure uniform implementation by court. The next point is the quick procedure, which we always say about the courts, is that it is an expectation of the courts that the cases will be brought to an end as soon as possible. Obviously, citizens who want to pursue their cause expect them to get access to justice as soon as possible, and the courts here have a very important task of making this quick administration happen. But it is also important that new rules are introduced, new methods and systems are developed and introduced. This is also very important because in the past, for example, it was often disastrous to register a foundation or an association, it took several years to register an association in the county court today, then it was still a county court, because a number of new aspects were constantly invented and thrown back to fill in the gap, fill in the gap and fill in the gap, and then there was a trend in the lawyer society that they knew which courts could easily pass through the associations, and they would not be so difficult, and there, in two or three months, they could register an association, elsewhere for years, then they had not submitted the association to registration, but they found another seat. So, obviously, lawyers and clients have tried to do their best and to find their way around this sea of law enforcement and differences, and I also hope that this legislation will eliminate this kind of problem for the future. So the quick procedure is a very important issue, and so is the uniform assessment aspect. So, after all, the previous examples I gave were about a single consideration. Let me not say, I'd rather not tell you the negative experiences that I had, when I didn't consider certain things in a uniform way, but other overtones played into how long it took, for example, to register a foundation or an association. And here the name change itself has often determined that the same association could be registered with one name, with the same text, with the same content in a month, and with the other name it could not be registered in a year and a half. Well, we hope that the uniform assessment criteria will indeed prevail in the future, and there will be no such examples, and obviously now new systems will be introduced that will eliminate this in any way, so the acceleration, we very much hope that it will actually happen. It is very important to ensure that the data in the register is more relevant. This is a very, very important aspect, because the fact that a register should be up-to-date and public-credited is essential, especially when it comes to a judicial system, a state system. It is very important to keep this up to date, and it is very important that it is credible and that confidence in public credibility is not shaken by citizens. This is a very important aspect. Administrative burden reduction is an equally important aspect. Hungary has been famous for decades, but we can slowly say that it has been known for centuries, or perhaps more than a century, that these procedures have been very slow, require a lot of paperwork, require a lot of extra tasks from citizens, from customers and lawyers, and there has been a great administrative burden. This is why it is to be welcomed that, in any form, administrative burdens are reduced, this should be supported in any way. The question of more efficient management of state assets, which also arises, is also considered to be a very important aspect. Well, we don't see that in the last 12 years, that efficient farming would have been achieved, but we are glad that there would be progress at this level in the future. Mr State Secretary, in his exposé, he spoke about the fact that the application of the law to date in this area and the legislation reflected the thinking of paper-based administration, and this needs to be changed. Yes, this is a very important point of view and a very important point of view. And here I would like to draw your attention, and we have talked about it many times over the last ten years in Parliament, since I've been here, what the electronic procedure has brought us, it doesn't help us. And indeed, one tries to share one's own experience here. When the electronic procedure started in the company proceedings about 20 years ago, we lawyers had a very difficult time receiving it, and it was very difficult to get used to it, to learn about it. At that time, the 50-plus age group didn't really care about it, nor did they really try to learn this new system. Then, after children's diseases were outgrown by this system and the initial difficulties were overcome, we constantly realized the benefits of the electronics process and the opportunities for development in the future. And obviously we are also happy that these benefits will be exploited at all levels. Obviously, if we're talking about decades earlier, two decades ago, it took a company to register on paper for weeks, and today we're talking about a kft. It can be established within an hour, but sometimes within 10-20-30 minutes, and if we do extend this to the registration of other legal persons, I think that this is a huge step forward in all aspects, and it is in the interest of society as a whole to achieve these kinds of innovations, and obviously this part of the electronic procedure must be used in any way and applied in the broadest possible area. And for the change to be recorded in a smooth way here, obviously a very important aspect. The explanatory memorandum also states that in this legislation, each paragraph contains titles which improve its clarity. Well, I'd argue with that anyway, because I think by highlighting the title, we're not sure we're improving transparency. I think in the previous system, when the legislation was divided into chapters and addresses, it was better to look for it, but I think that this is the smallest question, so the content is more important than the form, and it is not the formal things that need to be debated the most. There will be a uniform registration procedure in the future, and we will call the registration procedure in the future the change registration, the transformation, the merger, the division. You can totally agree with that. The primary task of the court is the constitutional registration of the establishment and termination of a legal person and the keeping of a public register, yes, I have already talked about the importance of a public register. And one important aspect is that it is not an authorisation, but an examination of the fact that the draft itself, the application that is being submitted, complies with the law and has been prepared according to it. Mr Secretary of State spoke about automatic decision-making entries, which are also part of the electronic procedure, and this is a very important innovation, which greatly increases the speed of the registration. [[14.10]] There is always a point here, and this is always a debate not only in Hungary, but in the whole world society, whether it is a good thing to eliminate or not eliminate the human aspect or keep it in it. I think that what Mr Secretary of State has said here is that human control will be carried out at least at second instance, and that there will be a continuous inspection of the stabbing test, so that random checks on automatic entries and, obviously, the place of appeal against them, the examination of the aspects of registration or rejection will already be carried out under human control in the appeal procedure, then perhaps we can say that we will have an adequate guarantee that mechanical automation will not be at the expense of legal certainty. In this way, according to the legislator, the control function of the courts will be increased, as judges will have more time for judicial supervision procedures, and there will be a greater opportunity to check compliance with the law and the proper functioning of the law for legal persons. So the single register, the up-to-date and public-credit register, once again highlighted, is a very important aspect. I have already talked about the issue of Hungarian tradition, and in my view it does not follow the Hungarian tradition, but obviously in some cases, when it comes to modernization, it may be possible to deviate. On this basis, I say that basically this legislation contains mainly positive progress. It is obviously implementing the modernisation efforts that will be implemented in electronic registers, electronic development, both in Hungary and in the world, and the European Union's recommendations in Hungarian case law, which we are obliged to introduce as a European Union Member State, the transposition of directives into Hungarian legislation. On this basis, I think that this legislation does not contain any aspects on which this would not be eligible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-26-74	Thank you. I salute my fellow Members. Our next lead speaker is Imre Vejkey, who presents the opinion of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Csaba Gyüre.)
u2021-05-26-75	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's fact is that the data of legal persons involved in public, social and economic life are contained in a different system of records led by several different authorities. Because of the above, it is also a fact that the individual registers are not harmonised, not only are they not available on a surface, but there is also a register that is not available on any public platform. Ladies and Gentlemen, For the above reason, there is no portal from which data requests for all legal persons can be launched. It is therefore currently up to the public's awareness of what legal persons are being provided with information. The publicly available data content is therefore rather limited, and we need to change that. All these facts show that the current registration and information background is not capable of providing daily information according to digitalisation requirements. Ladies and Gentlemen, The above situation is aggravated by the fact that there is most often no interoperability between registers covering legal persons. Data are stored in different forms and different structures, and data are provided on different, completely independent platforms using different technical solutions. Due to the different logic, different data content and different data structures, the records of legal persons cannot currently be effectively linked. This situation has a negative impact on the economic competitiveness of our country, and it is therefore important that a single and accessible structure be established. Ladies and Gentlemen, From all these facts only one conclusion can be drawn, namely that we need to implement a single register of legal persons as soon as possible. In its implementation, the hierarchy of registers and the principle of structured data should apply, together with the principle of change monitoring. It is extremely important to ensure the credibility and integrity of both current and historical data in the course of data changes. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what the Secretary of State and my fellow Member from Fidesz have already said in his expozee, and I would like to stress that the aim of the bill is therefore to ensure that the data of legal persons in different registration systems led by different authorities are kept in a single register. KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/16206. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-76	Thank you. Our next speaker is Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Members before me made this proposal very detailed, and Mr Secretary of State's exposé was also very exhausting and detailed. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, is very precise and very professional, and obviously we were accustomed to having made a very deep professional, good comment. I wouldn't want to waste time repeating these thoughts. Obviously, such a single register of legal entities should be welcomed, supported and supported. The reduction of administrative burdens, the faster procedure are all objectives and objectives that I think are positive. It could and should be, let us say, codification comments and problems, but at the same time I would like to limit myself to one thing in my speech, namely a proposal for an amendment, and I would like to describe this. The establishment of a procedure for the non-public treatment of the file is in question for us, and we have tabled a proposal for an amendment in this regard in two points. According to the bill, an application may be made by the organisation or the pre-company, including the pre-company, and may be submitted by those who have a legitimate interest in the non-public handling of the registration document. The application shall state the reasons for which the non-public treatment of the registration document is sought, as well as the facts and evidence justifying the existence of the applicant's legal interest, and the decision of the court on the application shall be made within one working day only. However, the proposal does not give any indication of the interests which may be legitimate interests, where the court will give a favourable assessment of the application, i.e. does not provide the criteria on which the court will take its decision. It is also a problem that not only the organisation may request the public treatment of the registration document, but also the person who has a legitimate interest in it, but the bill does not treat this case at all, it does not give rules in the event that the organisation itself opposes the non-public treatment of the registration document. The fact that there is a very short one-day deadline makes it impossible for a well-founded judicial decision to be taken. So we have tabled an amendment of a kind that would banish this procedure from this bill and cancel it. So I would like to add this amendment to the attention of the Government and to the attention of my fellow members of the Government, and I will obviously no longer wish to repeat the comments that have already been heard from the Members who spoke before me on many positive points. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I thank the factions for their supporting contributions, and I would like to ask them to support the presentation during the further debate, during committee meetings and during the vote. The amendment will, of course, be studied, and we will speak to the Member at the committee meeting. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2021-05-26-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Friday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code will follow until closure. Government referral T/16207. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, a number of new high-profile codes have been developed, among which the 2013 Civil Code Act V of 2013 stands out. The Ptk. The new regulatory solution of his third book was surrounded by a lively professional discourse. In particular, with regard to companies, there was a particular concern that a dyspositive approach among legal entities to replace previous cogens-like regulation would not cause any disruption in the functioning of companies. The initial interpretation debates have now ceased and, looking back over the past years, it can be said that legislation on legal persons has stood the test of time, legal profession and practice. For more than half a million private law holders, the Ptk. has been successfully re-established. Flexicurity has proved to be a legislative and competitive solution. The Ptk. His third book has not been comprehensively examined so far. Only the association section related to the civil registration rules was amended in 2016. The Ptk. His third book has now been submitted to the development of an amendment to a detailed professional work involving judges, practitioners and theoretical authorities. Some of the amendments are closely linked to the T/16206 proposed in conjunction with this bill on the registration of legal persons. Law No. 1. Dear House, All elements of the proposal cannot be presented now, so I would like to describe the elements that could be of particular interest. The Ptk. The problem on the agenda since its entry into force is that, in the case of limited liability companies, the requirement for the period between the members' assembly and the general meeting, repeated because of the failure of the general meeting, is kogens, but this legal limit imposes administrative burdens on companies, members and shareholders, and at the same time a significant cost. The proposal therefore eliminates the cogens nature of the minimum interval and thus will not prevent the articles of association from being held on the same day as the members' assembly, the general meeting and the repeated meeting. I am sure it can be said that this facilitation will be welcomed by the companies concerned. Under the rules currently in force, if the company does not remain at least two members in the course of its operation or, in the case of a partnership, does not remain at least one member and at least one member of the company, the company must notify a new member to the court within six months. Otherwise, the company shall cease to exist under the power of the law. If the death of the member leads to this situation, unfortunately, in practice it often leads to the termination of the company by virtue of this rule, because the member or members remaining in the company, or the heirs, believe that the legal situation must be resolved only after the transfer of the estate. Although this rule can be regarded as traditional in company law, it could not be embedded in the case law. There is no need to maintain this strict regulation, because these forms of company have also become legal entities of the Ptk. the date of entry into force of this Regulation. Despite the retention of rules based on the uniting nature of the company, the existence of a legal entity constitutes a surplus which no longer justifies the company's existence being so closely linked to the status of membership. Therefore, the proposal does not link the legal consequences of termination by law to the stated status of membership, but will ensure the restoration of legitimate operation, entry of a new member and court-martial in the future. In the case of a depositor, it is important to add a new provision that, if the company does not remain a member, the external member is liable for the debts incurred until normal operation has been restored, i.e. unlimited liability under the domestic rules. During this period, the external member makes decisions about the operation of the company and should therefore also take responsibility for them. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal streamlines on several points the substantive provisions affecting the management of the company, its financial position and the business decisions of its members. The proposal makes replacement payments, which are an effective means of safeguarding the solvency of the company, applicable to any form of company other than public limited liability companies. It is necessary to change the provisions of the replacement payment now becoming general only in so far as it is necessary to provide the most flexible solution in the case of a single-member company, i.e. to clarify that the single-member may take a supplementary payment decision without the specific authorisation of the constituent instrument. In that case, the member shall provide for a supplementary payment. The proposal also rationalises the so-called capital charge rule for limited liability companies. The Ptk. The provisions of this Regulation do not preclude a company contract from granting a payment deadline of 10 years or up to 20-25 years for members' cash deposits. Unfortunately, there is an example of such contractual clauses. However, this is clearly contrary to the objective of the rule and does not serve the interests of the company or creditors. The proposal maintains the possibility for the member to offset his obligation to make a deposit on a stock deposit, in whole or in part, from the dividend due to him, but the final deadline for this is set at the end of the second full business year following the start-up of the company. This is the final deadline during which the member must pay the company's cash deposits, whether by dividends or by actual payments. However, a change that seems like a legal nuance is a major change affecting the investments of a member of a limited liability company, that in the future a member may have more than one share in the limited liability company. This amendment opens up a number of possibilities for members. At present, it is difficult that only part of the part of the business cannot be pledged or that the member's willingness to invest is affected if his share of the business in the company is already pledged. In this case, the whole of its growing share of its additional investment will be pledged and therefore cannot make a burden-free investment decision. Corporate decision-making is not affected by the change in the stock deposit because the member is a member against the company, i.e. he votes as one member with a total number of votes for each of his shares. Dear House, The provisions of the proposal which enter into force in July 2023 relate to bill T/16206 on the registration of legal persons and on the registration procedure. The new rules of procedure introduce a change of approach in the court registration procedure. The aim of the new regulation is to examine, in the course of registration and registration of changes, the mandatory conditions for registration and the kogens provisions of the instrument of incorporation, but not to reconsider the provisions of the instrument of incorporation which fall within the scope of the contractual freedom of the members. The consequence of this change of view is that the rules on nullity of the instrument of incorporation must also be approached from a new perspective in the future. It remains a guarantee principle that, after registration, a legal person cannot be withdrawn retroactively because of the nullity of the instrument of incorporation and thus his registration will not be made void. In addition to the current registration rules, the registration order of the Registry does not guarantee that the instrument of incorporation or amendment thereof does not contain an invalid provision. However, there is a deadline for contesting amendments to the instruments of incorporation in the current legislation. The proposal removes the time limit for contesting the provisions of the instrument of incorporation, since it is in the public interest that legal persons do not operate with an instrument of incorporation containing an invalid provision. Only public limited liability companies are excluded because they will continue to be subject to the deadline for attack. The new solution balances the interests of legal certainty and the stability of the functioning of the legal person by establishing the ex-nunc scope of the declaration of nullity. This means that the court will draw the consequences of nullity in the case for the future, thus guaranteeing the safety of traffic. A court may decide with retroactive effect only if the requirements of legal certainty are not infringed. In addition to the nullity rules, the rules relating to the establishment of a public limited liability company will also change with the entry into force of the new registration rules. From July 2023, the Ptk. and under the new registration rules, in the event of a change in the form of a private limited company, the registry court shall first register the public limited company and there shall be a period of one year from the date of registration to introduce at least one set of shares of the public limited company on the stock exchange. This solution also meets the expectations of the capital market. [[14.30]] Dear House, In addition to the above, the proposal contains further forward-looking amendments to the practical application of the law, but these provisions are not being presented now. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the bill in agreement with the above objectives. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Zoltán Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-83	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Submitted, T/16207. The bill before us concerns the amendment of the civil code, namely: the Ptk. proposes to amend its Third Paper on legal persons. It should be noted that this proposal is also closely linked to the draft law on the registration of legal persons and the registration procedure that we have just discussed. In principle, it should be noted that the role of the Civil Code in the regulation of private individuals is twofold. On the one hand, it defines those normative conditions, such as the concept of a legal person, the rules on the conceptual elements of a particular type of legal person. In the event of such effects, a separate legal entity shall be created from the contractual relationship, from the declaration of articles of incorporation, which shall constitute the basis for the right of legal persons. On the other hand, if the legal person does not wish to regulate the operation of the legal person, the organisation of the legal entity, the relationship between the members and the legal person, it shall provide for a system of operating rules which will present and regulate the overall model functioning of the legal person. If, in the latter case, the members wish to derogate from the provisions of the Civil Code, the law provides that the members or founders of the legal person may not derogate from the provisions of this Act if the derogation is prohibited by this Act, or if the derogation clearly infringes the rights of creditors, employees or minority members of the legal person, or is thus far prevented from being subject to supervision of legal persons under the law. This provision therefore designates the limits of contractual freedom. Despite the fact that the majority of the regulatory systems of the Third Paper have worked out, the regulatory proposals reached out by case law have, however, justified the amendments that have been made to us. The bill aims to ensure that the law of legal persons, in particular the coherence and stability of company law, is further strengthened. Dear fellow Members, Although the Secretary of State has already done so, I would also like to confirm that the essential elements of the draft law concern the regulation of different forms of company. I would like to point out, first of all, that the proposal intends to allow, in the future, certain provisions of the legal person's instrument of incorporation and its amendment to be challenged without a time limit, in the name of nullity before the court. The new system of company proceedings places a strong emphasis on the fact that, when registering, the court is not allowed to intervene in matters falling within the competence of the members, which fall within the scope of contractual leave. According to the amendment, it will now be recorded in normative terms that nullity will be established with ex nunc effect, i.e. from the decision, not retroactively. Due to the proposed changes, the replacement payment becomes a general corporate legal instrument. Since, so far, only in the case of limited liability companies can we talk about the institution for the replacement payment, all forms of companies with the exception of public limited liability companies will benefit from this possibility in the future. It is noteworthy that, by virtue of the law, the removal of ipso iure in the case of companies of a traditional nature, i.e. the public supply company and the depositing company, instead of which the legislator intends to introduce a solution for the rescue of the undertaking. The kkt. and bt. in the case of a member, the legal relationship is primarily linked to the member and is of a second nature only of a financial nature. With the death of the natural member, the membership is terminated, it is not inherited, but the company is obliged to account for it to the heir of the deceased member. The proposal submitted seeks to eliminate the false legal assumption that the company will cease by virtue of the law because the remaining members and the members who have entered the company in general, typically the heirs believe that the notary succession order will also result in a change of member. The amendment maintains the obligation to notify a six-month member, but it removes the limitation of this deadline and restores legitimate operation in legal supervision. The cvt. a number of amendments to the text of the proposal, which is the following. The capital charge rule will be clarified, which, on the one hand, prevents members from setting a remote deadline for the provision of a full financial financial contribution which already casts doubt on the seriousness of their commitment. On the other hand, the company will have two full business years to produce its own capital. A member may have several shares, and instead of the rigid regulation of the repeated assembly, the amendment retains as a derogation the time between the original and the repeated meeting as a rule. The amendment to the rules on the public limited liability company was justified by increasing competitiveness by allowing the company to become a stock exchange company free of corporate barriers by allowing the registration of the public limited liability company before the listing of the shares, with the condition that the company should be allowed to place the shares on the stock market within one year. Given that it is not in itself in an interest to have at least half of the shares as ordinary shares, the amendment repeals the provisions on the proportion of ordinary shares and other shares. The dispositive regulation of the repeated general meeting will be governed by what the limited liability company has said. Dear Parliament, During the years since the entry into force of the Civil Code on 15 March 2014, Ptk. the legal person has successfully been brought under the jurisdiction of the legal person. Both a contractual freedom approach and a flexible legal framework are a guarantee of the competitiveness of company law. While maintaining a dyspositive view of the law of legal persons, the proposals drawn up by case law have become essential in the Ptk. integrate it into its system, which further strengthens the stability of company law and competitiveness. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal submitted, on the basis of its reasons and on the basis of its forward-looking proposals to the future, I would also ask the fellow Members to do the same and to support the proposal. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-84	Thank you. Our next speaker was Csaba Gyüre, who presented the opinion of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, notary.
u2021-05-26-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, We could get used to the fact that if the Justice Department brought us a bill on justice, we usually got salad laws, in which ten, twenty, one hundred, ninety when the laws were amended, there was some compliance or consistency, and there was no connection between these laws. At least now it's welcome. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Under one smoke!]] That, in such an important piece of legislation as the amendment of the Civil Code, we did not get this in salad. So I would like to say this right now, as a very positive fact, that we are happy about it, and it would be good if a lot of things were to happen in the future, just as they were bringing it here. [[14.40]] The other question is whether it is to be criticised or praised if not so much, a few years after the introduction and adoption of the new legislation, we reach in and modify it. I think it is important that we follow the experience that the application of the law gives us, the legislators, tell us what the aspects that have been well achieved in this legislation, what are those that are wrong. And in a new legislation, it is also necessary to accept that perfection cannot always be created, so there is a need for absolutions. Obviously, it can also be said that the legislation was wrong here, since we are already touching it in a few years and there are significant amendments. In any case, it must be acknowledged that it is an important issue to follow the message of the law, the law, the opinion of the law-abiding people, and it is a particular task for the courts, as well as for the lawyer's office, to do so. Their opinion is particularly important. And I am very pleased that, in this respect, the professional experience of the courts and the professional experience of lawyers have been taken very strongly into account in the partial elimination of errors in civil order. However, I see that the problems there were much bigger and bigger, but even at the moment, they are, and we have already touched a significant part of the civil order and there have also been changes. We are also touching a chapter here, and I think that it is very important to transpose practical experience, and the legislators must take this into account. What this bill is and what the amendments are, I would not like to go through in detail, since both the Secretary of State and the lead speaker of Fidesz have already described this in quite detail. However, I would like to highlight a few things in an exemplary way. Clarification of the rules on nullity of the legal person's instrument of incorporation is an important thing, and it is important to make them clearer and better applicable in the future. This legislation also amends certain detailed rules of the supervisory board of legal persons, clarifying who are entitled to sue against a decision-making body, such as a company. In any case, practical experience shows that unfortunately it is very common when it exists against the decisions of a company, but also in civil society organisations, when a member who finds it offensive, sues the courts for redress. It is important that these rules allow these lawsuits to be opened quickly and safely. It also regulates the company's replacement deposit institution. Here, too, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a very important new thing appears, when the total payment of money is not necessary when the company is set up. It has been possible so far, however, it is now clearly stated in the legislation that this can be paid out of distributed profits in the coming years. I think it's a big step forward. This is in any case an important aspect, because today, when a lot of people want to engage, they want to engage in some kind of entrepreneurial activity, and they do not have enough start-up assets to start a company, if they are given the opportunity to pay for it within a year or two, and they can do so. In any case, it will benefit society, on the one hand, entrepreneurs and individuals, on the other hand, and make it easier for everyone to set up the company. This is also a welcome aspect. In the event of the termination of the membership relationship, clarification of the rules on settlement is another important issue, as in many cases very serious settlement lawsuits arise, which often last for years and represent serious expert tasks. Today, there will be another bill where we will deal with the lawsuits for prolonged civil litigation, the financial needs arising from this. So when we try to prevent them, it's definitely a welcome aspect. If the number of members of the company is reduced to one per capita in the case of public supply companies, it will also clarify this. In this context, too, there have been previous problems with interpretation of the law. This bill clarifies the liability of members, the rules for the provision of financial contributions, and then the rights and obligations associated with the business, so to speak, is fine-tuned by this bill, which is once again a very important aspect for shaping the economic environment, including legal certainty and enforcement. I think that if legislation is not done on a political basis, but the professional arguments of the profession are specifically included in a basic law on a professional basis, it is certainly to be welcomed, and I think that in the event that we meet with such legislative proposals, and indeed professional proposals are made, and indeed the Ministry is developing its proposals in the light of the experience of the profession, it must be supported. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2021-05-26-86	Thank you. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, who will present the opinion of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-87	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill aims to amend the Third Paper of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code by introducing changes to the practical issues raised by the case law of recent years. The bill will further strengthen the coherence and stability of the law of legal persons, including company law. The Ptk. This amendment is related to the T/16206 on the registration and registration procedure of legal persons. Legislative proposal No. 13, which has already been discussed at the previous item on the agenda. Ladies and Gentlemen, Considering that Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, and my fellow Member, Zoltán Kovács, has already presented the bill in detail in his speech, I would therefore like to draw attention to the main points of the proposal. On the one hand, that the rules on the nullity of the legal person's instrument of incorporation will be amended in such a way that, in the future, certain provisions of the instrument of incorporation may be challenged without a time limit, in the name of invalidity before the court. With regard to this provision, it should be pointed out that this substantive change is closely linked to the T/16206 mentioned above. Law No. 1. On the other hand, it is an important change that the replacement payment becomes a general corporate legal instrument. With the exception of public limited liability companies, all forms of society will benefit from the possibility of replacement payments, not only limited liability companies. Thirdly, it is an important change that the termination of the public supply company and the deposit company will be abolished by virtue of the law, instead of ending, a solution for the rescue of the company will be introduced. Fourthly, it is an important change that the so-called capital charge rule in the case of a limited liability company is 3:16. § 3 is amended. The bill thus prevents bad practice in which members set a far-reaching deadline for the provision of the entire financial contribution, which already casts doubt on the seriousness of the members' financial commitments and thus the capitalising nature of the company. [[14.50]] The bill maintains the original legislative intention that the company itself can generate the amount of the subscribed capital, but allows it to do so within a reasonable time frame: the bill provides two full business years for the provision of the money deposit. Fifthly, it is an important change that the bill allows a member to have several shares in the case of a limited liability company. Based on the above, it's a kft. Member States may, on the one hand, split their shares by being the owner of the distributed shares and, on the other hand, may have several shares in the case of the acquisition of a new share. A member may therefore have several shares, but he will continue to be a member against the company. Sixth part: important change to kft. in the case of a repeated meeting of members and, in the case of a public limited liability company, instead of the kogens regulation of the repeated general meeting, the parties are free to decide in the constituent instrument that a repeated meeting may be held on that day. Seventh part: making it possible to transform into a stock exchange company free of corporate barriers is an important change. Finally, eighth part: it is important to repeal the provision on the proportion of ordinary shares and other shares. Ladies and Gentlemen, KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/16207 on the amendment of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács and Dr. Pál Völner applaud.]]
u2021-05-26-88	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is László Varga, who presents the opinion of the MSZP Group. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, it is also a matter of amending a large-scale code that affects many areas, but as has been said here before me, these changes are essentially linked to the Third Book, the rules of legal persons. However, they do not mean a change in principle in the sense that the Ptk. This amendment does not change its approach to legal persons so far. Several people have analysed the parts of the amendment in front of me, and I would not repeat them all, but still allow me to elaborate on a few details and to put a few questions in a limited way. On the one hand, one of the aims of the amendment is obviously to eliminate misunderstandings that arise in practice in the Ptk. by clarifying its text. So, in this sense, it is obviously a practical proposal and, for this very reason, it also addresses the problems that arise in practice, transforming rules in a way that better fits with practical needs and experience. One of the most important of these, perhaps, is that the proposal leaves, in a comprehensive way, a clause for all bodies managing the legal person, which qualifies the majority-based decision making as non-permissible. This does not mean that the minority could make a decision in the future, obviously this practice that goes against logic will continue to be illegal in the future; it is merely an opportunity for the Ptk. to take a decision in cases where, for some reason, any member of the panel has more votes or weighted votes, in the event of such a circumstance. So obviously here, even in examples in which, say, in a given board of directors, say, a five-member board has a total of, say, 15 votes per unit, but let's say, 10 of them have two members, then obviously these two members can make a decision with this technique, the other three members could have boycotted the meetings in this sense, according to the older rules. The other significant change here is obviously in the legal institution for the replacement payment, which has been said in front of me by several people, but I would just like to say about it. Obviously, on this basis, as has been said, it regulates replacement payments as a general company law institution as a means of ensuring stability, a more effective solvency. The reason for this is that in the case of kft.-s it is a proven rule, by the way. With the exception of most companies, it is appropriate to apply it properly and, in view of the success of the PPPs, it is also appropriate to apply it. You might as well agree with that. Finally, the rules on deposit companies and public supply companies are also amended. The proposal abolishes the termination of the public supply company and the depositing company by virtue of the law, taking into account that this rule was based on the operation of these forms of company as a company without prior legal personality. The kkt. and it follows from the legal personality of the partnership that its existence and functioning are separated from its members. The reason for this change is based on a fundamental mistake, the essence of which is that members and members entering are mistaken in the belief that they will become members in these legal forms through a notary succession order, but this is not the case. This misunderstanding has led to the disappearance of these legal entities in many cases. The proposal will remedy this by not saying it. And the kkt. the termination of such cases, but reserves the right of the court to call on these legal persons to restore their legitimate operation, thereby eliminating the previously mentioned error without undue damage being caused by the State in the interests of those legal persons. It is, therefore, in principle possible to agree with this. At first sight, it could be said that this is a package that could be motivated by purely professional practical experience, but there is a question as to what the actuality of this could be. Here, however, the experts that I have asked have come to believe that the situation of Dunaújváros Dunaferr can be described here. The management of the company is carried out through an extremely complicated network, where it is very difficult for the public to see how many percent of the owners have control rights; it is a much bigger problem that Hungarian courts are also struggling with this. It is a legitimate question that this proposal is therefore linked in any form to the situation in Dunaújváros or to the situation in Dunaferr, which could affect the operation of the metallurgical plant or not. If you could answer that, Secretary of State, I'd appreciate it. I ask you to consider what you said. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-05-26-90	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman Varga asked an important question, which is obviously what we are looking for. All in all, I can say very, very briefly, that the people before me have given a detailed description of the proposal that we often make hard criticism of the quality of the law of the Ministry of Justice, and it is typical here that almost everything can be seen in the form of a salad law, that this is how they come before the Parliament or are typical, and otherwise, this bill can be said to be the way that social consultations required by the law are almost never carried out in connection with the legislative proposals. That didn't happen now. So it seems that they do not want to meet this condition, nor could they, we can say, almost never. However, it is relatively rare for us to see that a bill contains basically professional elements, such as this, and that it contains coherent and logical amendments, so I can say that, until the moment of the vote, another question is raised on our part, the LMP faction will be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-92	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Völner, Secretary of State, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-93	Make it short. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for treating this professional presentation as a professional presentation. I promise you that in the Commission and in the following debates, we will take this matter accordingly and ask for the support of the proposal. Thank you. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács and Dr. Imre Vejkey applaud.]]
u2021-05-26-94	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, A general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws relating to the compulsory cancellation procedure and winding-up proceedings and related legislation will follow until closure. Government referral T/16205. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I would like to address Mr Pál Völner, Minister of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2021-05-26-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Emergency Government Decree No. 20, confirming its provisions on transitional rules and epidemiological preparedness related to the cessation of an emergency, LVIII of 2020. In May 2020, the ongoing compulsory cancellation procedures were suspended. From that date, no new compulsory cancellation procedures have been initiated, but these cases have been suspended in the judicial supervision procedure prior to forced cancellation. Rethinking the rules of the forced cancellation procedure has become timely. The result of this work is contained in the bill that has just been tabled. The introduction of the forced cancellation procedure in 2012 served the purpose of removing companies operating illegally or without a tax number from the business register and the economy after failure of the judicial supervision measures. The number of forced cancellation procedures is very high every year. Experience has shown that in many cases business owners do not make any effort to legally terminate their company, but allow the company to be subject to judicial supervision and then forced removal. It is believed that the State or the court will instead carry out the administrative tasks of winding up without successors. This isn't right. This bill does not change the main purpose of the compulsory cancellation procedure, but strengthens the sanctioning nature of the procedure. Dear House, There will be no change in the reasons for initiating the compulsory cancellation procedure, nor in the fact that, at the beginning of the procedure, the court of business will publish a notice in the Company Közleklöny, in which it calls on the creditors of the company to report information on the company's assets and claims on the company to the court. However, the deadline for notification is changed from 60 days to 40 days. In the future, the company court will continue to involve the company's registered executives, in the case of a limited liability company and a private limited company, the majority-influenced member and, in other cases, the members registered in the company register. It shall also include previously registered members and senior officials in the proceedings if there is evidence that the company's illegal operation or omission persisted during the two years prior to the compulsory cancellation procedure. These persons are referred to in the proposal as persons subject to a general prohibition. The court of business shall send the notified claims to the persons who are prohibited, who may contest the claims notified in substance. On the basis of statements made by creditors and persons who are banned, the Court of Justice shall decide which claim is considered to be contested and which is not contested. This issue is relevant to the liability for the company's debts at a later stage of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal now presents the provisions on the assessment of the impact on illegal operations in one place and in one place. On the basis of written statements, but even on the basis of statements made at a personal hearing, the court examines the fact that the persons concerned by the ban have taken all reasonable measures to stop the company from operating in breach of the law, in order to comply with the company's failure. In the event of a failure to comply with the prohibition, the court shall apply a prohibition measure. An important new provision is that the prohibited person is obliged to pay the uncontested claims against the company and is liable for those claims. In the case of more than one disabled person, the liability is joint and several. It should be pointed out that this legal consequence will not be based on private law but on public law. It must be seen that this rule is a statutory sanction applied by the Court of Justice, which is intended to facilitate compliance with the law. What is important is that the Court of Justice applies a ban even if the person who is prohibited does not cooperate with the court, either in the compulsory cancellation procedure or in the prior judicial supervision procedure. In the future, therefore, the passive behaviour of the company's members and senior officials will not remain without a penalty, but in this case the prohibited person will not automatically be liable for the claims. Dear House, An important change in forced cancellation is also the fact that the proposal establishes a new system of relations between forced cancellation and liquidation. According to the proposal, the court will terminate the compulsory cancellation procedure and initiate liquidation if the total claim against the company is at least HUF 400 thousand, but even if the company's assets are at least HUF 400 thousand and the claim has been declared in the proceedings. The company will also be liquidated even if the company is a plaintiff in a claim suit, so the company's assets may increase in the future. In the case of forced cancellation, cases remain where no claim has been reported, i.e. no creditor suffering injury. The case will also remain in the case of forced cancellation if the total value of the claims is less than HUF 400 thousand, and the company's assets do not reach HUF 400 000. In these situations, either there is no insolvency situation or the debt of the company is so small that the creditors' interests can be enforced in the context of the compulsory cancellation procedure in the light of the liability rule described earlier. Finally, it should be pointed out that, in the future, compulsory cancellation will become a duty-based procedure, i.e. a supervisory levy on the termination by the State without successor. It cannot be ruled out that the company will be forced to delete for reasons independent of the company's managers, the owners, or, even though they have failed, it is important for them to continue operating the company. While the compulsory cancellation cannot be terminated today at the company's request, the company may request the termination of the compulsory cancellation procedure during the first 90 days of the procedure in the future. To do this, you must prove that you have restored your legal function, you have a valid tax number, you have paid your dues and you have paid the supervisory fee. If the company court terminates the forced cancellation procedure against the company, the company can again participate in the business, i.e. it can continue to operate. XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings will be amended in connection with the reform of the forced cancellation procedure. a law introducing the institution of the creditor's reduced cost. The aim of this margin is to provide a reasonable budget to the superintendent in order to locate the debtor's assets and initiate claim enforcement procedures. In many cases, the debtor thus does not have any assets in place because he unlawfully withdrew it from the company before the compulsory cancellation or liquidation. Exploring property recovery behaviour, suing back the saved assets into bankruptcy or even starting a breach of liability lawsuit is a priority task for the insolvency administrators. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the above objectives, the proposal also addresses urgent company law issues. In this context, it can be pointed out that the proposal clarifies the open questions raised in relation to the criminal record system. It makes it clear that if, in the course of the annual data request, it is found that the official entered in the register of companies may no longer be included in the register for criminal reasons, the removal of that person shall take place on the date of the increase in the legal force of the order having it. From a company's point of view, the other important provision is T/16207. It relates to the amendment of the Civil Code. A new special legality supervision procedure will be introduced into the company law, which aims to deal with the situation in the case of the public supply company and the deposit company if the company member is dead and the Ptk. a new member must be notified to the court, but the members remaining in the company wish to agree with the heir. In this judicial oversight procedure, it will be possible for the new member to be notified only after the succession procedure has been completed. This legislation is also the same as that established in the framework of the draft law on the registration of legal persons and the registration procedure, which will enter into force in 2023. Dear House, The purpose of the proposed legislation is to clearly distinguish between insolvency, forced winding-up and winding-up situations. The aim of the provisions is to increase the responsibility of business owners and managers in how they operate and, above all, how they eliminate their company. The aim is to ensure that the compulsory cancellation procedure cannot be used as an abusive termination procedure and to avoid winding up proceedings. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in agreement with the above objectives. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor. [[15.10]]
u2021-05-26-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us fundamentally changes the compulsory cancellation procedures on the basis of the practical experience of recent years. Act V of 2006 on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up, which includes cases of forced cancellation, is primarily applicable in the case of forced cancellation, briefly summarised as a court procedure leading to the termination of the company in breach of law without its successor and its permanent cancellation from the company register. Under the rules in force, forced cancellation is ordered by the company court if the company is declared terminated, the winding-up has not been completed within three years, or the company has been terminated without successor, and there is no place for winding-up otherwise. Forced cancellation is a so-called non-court procedure for the cancellation of companies which have been declared terminated by the Court of Justice and are typically unaccounted for. The maintenance of the procedure is justified because these cases could not be dealt with effectively by creditors in winding-up proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, As regards compulsory cancellation procedures, it should be noted that at present the 2020 CIV laying down certain rules on epidemiological measures and amending certain laws relating to epidemiological measures. By law, they were suspended until 30 June 2021 and no new procedures were opened. Therefore, the forced cancellations virtually stopped from 29 May 2020 so to speak. This bill would bring about a reform of forced cancellation procedures. Often, companies make use of forced removal because it is the most convenient, simple and cheap alternative for them. If the senior official, the members, do not communicate with the authorities, the corporate courts, they delete the company without accounting, tax and other obligations, only the ban is to be taken into account, but often the companies are already owned by the company's cemetery service providers in most cases. To close this loophole, the proposal introduces a specific levy on the conduct of the procedure, so that the court does not cancel the company as a public service. The proposal leaves only small-value cases in the forced cancellation case. If a total claim of HUF 400,000 is reported against the company, or if the company has assets and claims against it, the company's withdrawal from the economy will continue as liquidation proceedings. In winding-up proceedings, the liquidator shall act against the managing officer or members and shall fulfil the accounting and tax obligations. In cases remaining in forced cancellation, where the member of the managing officer is banned by the company court, that person shall pay the creditor the claims declared. Dear House, The bill also significantly alters the relationship between forced cancellation and liquidation. If the company is cancelled in forced cancellation, either there was no claim for creditors, or it was an amount of less than HUF 400 thousand, which the prohibited members are obliged to pay to the creditor, so the creditors will not suffer worse than they would have done in the event of winding up. If the company has assets worth 400 thousand forints or above and has creditors' claims, the company will be liquidated. If the company's claims reach HUF 400,000, there will also be a liquidation, as I mentioned. In other words, the proposal removes the current so-called grey zone, thanks to the proposal, there will no longer be a segment in the future where the company that has waived debts does not have to satisfy its creditors. It is therefore important that the so-called low value procedures remain in the forced cancellation business, companies with major assets or debt are removed from the economy in winding-up proceedings. Dear Parliament, The bill also contains new rules on the assessment of the company's claims on the basis of the announcements and the impact on the company. The Court of Justice shall, as appropriate, request, for the two years prior to the compulsory cancellation, the persons who are prohibited to declare that they are contesting the claims notified, and shall certify the measures taken to prevent the company from being subject to forced cancellation, i.e. to terminate the illegal operation and omission. Persons affected by the prohibition may challenge the notified claim, in which case the applicant may also make a statement. On the basis of this investigation, the Court of Justice shall determine which claims are considered to be contested and which are not contested. The legal institution of the ban will remain, but it will continue to expand. The company court shall prohibit the person who is prohibited if, on the one hand, it has not been able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that it has taken all measures to eliminate the illegal operation of the company, and whether the person has violated his obligation to cooperate with the court in the previous judicial proceedings or during the compulsory cancellation. It is important that if the company restores its legal function and pays its debts due, it will be given the opportunity to request the termination of the forced cancellation. You have a legal opportunity to do so for 90 days from the start of the procedure. Dear House, A number of substantial changes in procedural rules could be highlighted from the bill before us, which are almost without exception a means of ensuring the purity of economic life and the protection of creditors. The proposal makes it clear that the forced cancellation procedure is not a public service that companies can use, so to speak, free of charge as a means of abolishing the company without successor, but it is important that companies able to operate further in order to protect the economy and protect the workplace are also able to terminate the procedure by means of the proposal. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-99	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to implement the economic protection action plan, the forced cancellation procedures were suspended for the first time from the end of May 2020 until October 2020 and thereafter from October 2020 until 30 June 2021 and no new procedures were launched, i.e. forced cancellations stopped from 29 May 2020. Ladies and Gentlemen, Considering that Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, in his expozee and my fellow Member, István Bajkai, has already presented the bill in detail in his speech, I would therefore like to draw attention to the following main points of the proposal. The bill before us strengthens the sanctioning nature of the forced cancellation procedure and, while maintaining the legal institution of the ban, the new legal consequences of the ban are introduced, namely that the prohibited persons are jointly and severally liable for the company's outstanding debts declared in the forced cancellation procedure. Thirdly, all members can be prohibited, not only the unlimitedly responsible member, in the case of members affected by the ban and this breach of responsibility, in the case of a public supply and deposit company. Fourthly, the proposal also provides for the initiation of liquidation if the total value of the claims against the company reaches HUF 400 thousand. Fifthly, for companies that can continue to operate in the interests of economic protection and job protection, the proposal provides for the possibility of terminating the procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary faction of KDNP supports T/16205. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.20]]
u2021-05-26-100	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is László Varga, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As many previous speakers have said, the main purpose of the proposal is to amend the rule system of forced cancellation. We are talking about forced cancellation in the event that the company does not operate in accordance with the law and that it cannot or does not intend to restore its legal function after the legal supervision procedure. In this case, the court will proceed with a forced cancellation procedure, which will result in the company being removed from the register. The purpose of the amendment, as the previous speakers have said, is to make it easier for the company to restore its functionality at the time of the imposition of the forced cancellation; otherwise, this could obviously be an eligible objective. In addition, by setting the fee for the procedure in HUF 250,000, the company's senior officials and members are encouraged to restore legitimate operation; this is a kind of incentive. If this works, the fee for the procedure will be reduced to HUF 50,000. The proposal also concerns the legal institution of the ban. The current rules replace the text of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which ensures that the person whose involvement in the irregular operation is determined by the Court of Justice. However, the duration of the ban depends solely on the claims of unsatisfied creditors. The proposal also ensures consistency with the amendment of the Ptk., which is currently in place before the Parliament, as regards the cases concerning the termination of public supply companies and deposit companies, so obviously this was the previous debate in front of the House. The main purpose of the bill is to restore legal operation and ensure its possibility during the forced cancellation procedure, but there are cases where this is not possible, for example if the tax number is deleted or if the company has ceased to exist. The proposal provides for the possibility of launching a separate lawsuit in the event that, as a result of the ground for disbarment, the prohibited person is ordered by the court to pay his unfulfilled claim, which is not a contested claim, declared in the compulsory cancellation procedure. The court of business does not apply the legal consequences of a ban under the law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up. According to the author, this has been the case so far, and the operation of the public sector's companies is specific, and therefore it does not consider that the sanction should apply in this sector. In the light of what I have said, and on the basis of what has been said by the speakers before me, it appears that this proposal contains essentially technical amendments based on practical experience, but it is difficult to see what the legislative objective on the part of the government may be, in particular, the case of the exclusion of public companies. I think I've been talking about the main points that we've been looking at, and I've heard a lot of things before me, so I'm not going to add any more. So, basically, we are talking about a professional proposal, but I would like to ask you to take into account the comments made on companies, Mr State Secretary. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-05-26-102	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, At the conclusion of the lead speakerial round, I now address Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I'd pick up somewhere where László Varga left off in front of me, saying it was a draft professional law. I do not dispute that the profession has made these amendments, which have now been tabled here as a proposal, but I have a question to the Secretary of State on this matter, or this question may be an observation. And it's already number one. In relation to §2 which is XCIII of 1990 on levies. He's changing the law, a new 66. Section 2 is added, and this is what the Secretary of State has been talking about. I agree perfectly with Mr Secretary of State that when a forced cancellation procedure takes place, it should not be tax-free, so when members let the company lose because they do not deal with it, they do not want to go through the work that needs to be done in a proper winding-up procedure, they do not want to bear the cost, they leave the company to fall for it, so that there is no sanction, there is no mandatory cost, I really agree, Mr Secretary of State, that this is necessary. However, I have so matched the deadlines and the entry into force of this law. At present, Mr Secretary of State has also started his speech by suspending the forced cancellation procedures in the light of the emergency situation, and the emergency situation has been extended, now it seems to be a Sep-man until now, but this law will enter into force on 1 July 2021, so it will enter into force in a long time. Will this mean that the 250,000 HUF levy will have to be imposed on the court from that date? Because the law will say that, along with the final order, the court will provide for the levy. Now, this has to be understood, since there is no condition here that this rule of payment of taxes should be applied to the compulsory cancellation procedures that have been initiated afterwards, which follows my interpretation, and here is my question: should this be applied to the procedures that have now been suspended? Because if so, I think that it is not fair to impose a levy of HUF 250 000 in such a way that we have suspended the procedure in such a way that it is more favourable for citizens, companies, so that they are not put at a disadvantage because of the Covid situation, who may be subject to a forced cancellation procedure in connection with Covid. In this case, these companies will be in a much less favourable position, because it may even happen without their own fault. He said that he did, but then they have the opportunity to settle the documents and the problems that led to the forced cancellation procedure within 90 days. This is very right and very good, but also in this case a reduced fee, i.e., if I remember correctly, 50 thousand forints must be paid, while at the moment this procedure is free of charge. So, in the interests of human decency overall, I would say that this can be applied in my view for the future, and that, obviously, the liability of members can also come in here, and that the issue of liability of members is also manifest, which is not a problem, because the liability of members is obvious in the event that the forced cancellation procedure is due to failure of the company, a conscious omission, then the liability of the members is clearly raised. However, if necessary, the company itself may be subject to a forced cancellation procedure, without its own fault, without the will of the members, to a situation that will make this happen. So I think that, with retroactive effect, it would be unfortunate to apply this law in any form. So if this should be added to the need to apply to future procedures, everyone should be aware of the consequences of their actions. But obviously, who was forced to delete a year ago, last June, and is suspended at the moment, he is aware that these rules are tax-free for him, so I do not think that the penalty fee of HUF 250,000 can be applied to them, or even the reduced levy of HUF 50,000. So I think, and that is why I propose to the Secretary of State that, if it really is to be interpreted this way, as I have read out of the legislation, that this should be applied to all compulsory cancellation procedures as of 1 July, then this means that we will apply retroactively to companies currently subject to suspension, which would obviously bring no small revenue from the state, because there are quite a lot of companies currently in a suspended state during forced cancellation proceedings, and obviously also those members have the right to be outraged from the point of view that, when this happened to them, there was no such payment obligation, but now this will come to the fore, and they will have a payment obligation. I would definitely consider this to be an important consideration on the part of the legislator. Here, I would like to draw the attention of the National Assembly and the attention of the Ministry of Justice. [[15.30]] In this regard, I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State for his reply on how this should be interpreted now and apply to companies currently subject to suspension the obligation to pay a levy of HUF 250 000. In that case, I think that, if this is so, as I have interpreted, then, unfortunately, there is a situation on which this legislation would not be supported by us, and that is why I am asking for this consideration; or, where appropriate, for Mr State Secretary, his reassuring reply that there is no problem in this regard, and that we will apply it for the future. So I think that retroactive legislation is in no way compatible with the rule of law; and in this case, we would definitely be talking about retroactive legislation, because we would now impose the 250 000 HUF levy on an act or omission a year ago. I think that this is not in the rule of law category. That is why I ask the Secretary of State either to reassure me that this is not the case or to change the legislation in this respect. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2021-05-26-104	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary Völner. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the supporting contributions that have been made in the debate. Mr Csaba Gyüre's question: when a procedure is suspended, it does not mean that it is finished. So, obviously, in the final order, the court must ensure that the costs of the procedure for which they were subject are adequately determined. Therefore, it will not be imposed at the beginning of the procedure. But it is obvious that the judicial practice and the court's decision are the norm in this case. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the proposal to enforce financial compensation for the withdrawal of civil proceedings until closure. Government referral T/16218. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Once again, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ensuring that a reasonable period of time is met is a legitimate social requirement. Everyone has a fundamental interest in judging the rights and obligations of the court within a reasonable period of time in the proceedings involving him. This right is declared, on the one hand, by the Fundamental Law, but the right to proceedings within a reasonable period of time and, on the other hand, the need to enforce the right to an effective remedy is also reflected in our international commitments. By strengthening the European Convention on Human Rights, Hungary has undertaken to ensure that the right to a procedure within a reasonable time is respected. The bill I am about to present is not an unprecedented step by which the government is seeking to fulfil the right to a procedure within a reasonable period of time. The government has put great emphasis not only on the present, but also in recent years, on speeding up and making decision-making processes more effective, both by renewing procedural laws on court proceedings and by amending other laws. The most important legislative action in this area is the creation of new codes of procedure. As you know, the new Civil Procedure Act, the Administrative Rules Act and the New Criminal Procedure Act came into force on 1 January 2018. These codes contain a number of rules designed to ensure that the Hungarian court proceedings are conducted effectively without undue delay, in a tight timetable, by eliminating the factors leading to unnecessary delays in proceedings, within a reasonable period of time. In our renewed procedural law, the emphasis is therefore placed on ensuring per-concentration at systemic level, and new legal institutions with greater efficiency are also emerging. To mention just a few examples: such a legal institution in civil proceedings is the introduction of a split set of lawsuits, i.e. a more effective way to prepare the case, the strengthening of judicial intervention to support the progress of the procedure, and the possibility of more effective judicial action. If we look at judicial statistics on civil proceedings in relation to recent years, it is clear that the duration of the proceedings shows a downward trend, which justifies the introduction of a more concentrated procedural agenda. However, in addition to the government's intention to prevent the length of court proceedings at systemic level through the creation of these new procedural codes, the bill to be negotiated today aims to create the possibility of using an additional legal protection instrument that further encourages the timely conduct of civil proceedings and provides ex post compensation to seekers of rights in respect of unduly prolonged procedures. The primary objective of the bill before you is to contribute to the fulfilment of this right by means of a solution providing specific legal protection, to compliance with international standards. This bill provides a means of redress aimed at encouraging the timeliness of civil proceedings and at compensating for a breach of the right to prolong such proceedings, taking into account the specificities of civil procedural law and its application. It is therefore appropriate to adapt the compensation scheme to remedy a breach of the law individually to the individual sectoral rules, because the different legal aspects of the proceedings require different solutions. The regulatory solutions of the bill also take greater account of the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights in relation to the Convention in order to ensure that effective remedies are available to remedy possible violations. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to explain, without the need for completeness, the most important provisions of the bill, which ensure that individual legal protection in relation to the withdrawal of judicial proceedings is implemented. The bill places under special legal protection the fundamental right to complete civil proceedings within a reasonable period of time, establishes a new legal consequence to compensate for the breach of fundamental rights, and sets a separate procedural order for the enforcement of claims for financial compensation. A central element of the bill is the creation of a legal institution for new financial compensation, the so-called financial satisfaction, which should be separated from the institutions for compensation, compensation or damages. A person who is party to the proceedings shall be entitled to financial compensation in the light of the infringement of his fundamental right if the procedure exceeds a reasonable period which may be determined on the basis of the bill. It should be pointed out that it is not a breach of any damage or of the right of personality, but a violation of a specific fundamental right that is the basis for the assessment of financial compensation, and therefore the procedure under the bill does not prevent the party from bringing proceedings under general procedural rules in order to remedy the damage suffered by him or her in connection with the procrastination of legal proceedings. The bill sets out the reasonable periods which must necessarily be sufficient to enable the court to conduct or conduct the procedural actions necessary for its reasoned decision in the case in question. Exceeding those periods is what the legislator considers to be objectively capable of violating the fundamental right in the context of judicial proceedings. In general, a period of 60 months, i.e. five years, is considered sufficient to complete the entire civil litigation procedure. A shorter period of three years in the case of cases requiring more speedy treatment, such as legal proceedings, legal proceedings for the maintenance of a child, labour litigation, is set out in the full court procedure, including the ordinary and extraordinary proceedings relating to the first instance procedure. The regulation also aims to encourage the adoption of substantive decisions guaranteeing legal protection in these cases with stricter requirements for cases requiring a faster remedy of infringement. It is also specified in the bill as to the length of the proceedings relating to each level of court, for example, the first instance procedure or the duration of the second instance procedure, which may be considered reasonable. This is because, on the basis of the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights in the context of the Convention, it is appropriate not only to examine the fulfilment of the requirement of a reasonable period of time in the event of a prolongation of the entire procedure, but also in the event of an unnecessary delay of a procedural stage, where appropriate, and to compensate for the violation of the law. Accordingly, for example, in matters of personal status, if the first instance proceedings exceed one and a half years, there will be financial satisfaction in that respect. [[15.40]] It is, of course, a fundamental requirement that litigation be completed within the shortest possible period of time, but the bill will in no case guarantee the possibility of claim enforcement in the event of a reasonable period being exceeded. However, where justified by the circumstances of the individual case, the court assessing the compensation may set the reasonable period necessary for the conduct of the procedure or procedure concerned over a shorter period than those specified in the bill and may decide to grant the compensation. This type of flexible, discretion-free regulation best meets the expectations of the European Convention on Human Rights. The claim for compensation of property may also be enforced in connection with pending and final judicial proceedings, on the basis of the bill, with the possibility to enforce claims only in respect of cases which have been final in the transitional period following the expected entry into force of the bill and which will assist the progressive preparation of the judicial organisation system. It was also essential to ensure efficiency in establishing procedural rules for the enforcement of claims for financial compensation before a court. The claim shall be enforceable in court proceedings of civil non-court, courts of exclusive jurisdiction not involved in the underlying case. The claim enforcement procedure shall be initiated against a court of first instance in a prolonged case. If a court of first instance has served as a district court, the proceedings shall be brought against the court of which the court of first instance has jurisdiction. The financial satisfaction to be assessed should therefore be met by the courts involved in the prolonged case on the basis of the bill. The enforcement procedure shall contain documentary evidence. For the sake of efficient and swift administration, the determining court shall decide within the framework of a written procedure on the basis of available judicial documents and other information provided by the parties. After receipt of the parties' substantive statements, i.e. the request to initiate proceedings and the counterclaim, the determining court must, within three months, carry out the necessary evidence and take a substantive decision to close the proceedings. The definition of this time frame is also intended to provide adequate compensation to the claimant within a reasonable period of time. If the court finds that the financial satisfaction is due to the applicant, it shall determine the amount of the financial satisfaction on the basis of the fee and calculation method set out in the Government Decree. Ladies and gentlemen, As a final point, I would like to reiterate that the bill on the enforcement of financial satisfaction in relation to the extension of civil proceedings is linked to the renewed civil procedural legislation that you have already adopted, with the aim of promoting its fundamental objective, the fulfilment of the efficiency of the lawsuit and the enforcement of the law within a reasonable period of time, by giving an effective legal consequence in the event of the non-fulfilment of these requirements. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-26-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Article XXIV of the Fundamental Law of Hungary It states that everyone has the right to be dealt with impartially, fairly and within a reasonable period of time by the public authorities, and that everyone has the right to compensation for damage unlawfully caused by the public authorities in the performance of their duties, as defined by law. The right to a procedure within a reasonable time and the right to an effective remedy are also named in the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights has called on our country to establish a system that is capable of preventing the length of court proceedings and of remedying the violation of the law caused by such procedures. The first step is the New Civil Procedure Act, Act I of 2017 on Administrative Procedure, and the New Criminal Procedure Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2018. The new procedural rules have started to reduce the length of proceedings at systemic level. At the same time, it is necessary to establish an appeal procedure in line with the specificities of each sectoral procedural set of rules, which compensates for any infringement caused by a delay in the procedure. This is what the bill before us is intended to promote. The proposal before us places the fundamental right to complete civil proceedings within a reasonable period of time under special legal protection, regulates the compensation of the breach of fundamental rights by financial means and the procedure for enforcing it and ensuring it. The new legal protection should be granted as an independent, sui generis legal institution, a party to legal proceedings in the light of the violation of its fundamental rights. The bill also separates this fundamental rights protection from personal protection, recognising that this violation does not constitute an infringement of personal rights, but a separate violation of fundamental rights. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State has described the detailed rules of the bill before us exhaustively, and I will therefore mention only a few elements. As a general rule, the bill sets out the duration of the judicial procedure, which is adjusted by the amount of the financial compensation to compensate for the length of the proceedings. In general, the bill provides for a period of five years to complete the civil proceedings. It is also defined how long the proceedings relating to each level of court, such as the first or second instance procedure, will be considered reasonable. For example, 30 months for the first instance procedure, 18 months for the second instance procedure and 12 months for the review procedure are no longer considered reasonable. Dear House, A number of forward-looking elements of the proposal should be pointed out that the draft takes into account sensitive cases requiring more rapid evaluation, such as lawsuits for having a child or labour lawsuits, thus setting a shorter, objective duration for the whole court procedure and procedural stages. Dear Parliament, The claim for financial compensation may also be made in relation to an ongoing and completed case if the duration of the full court proceedings or even a procedural stage thereof exceeds the reasonable period specified in the bill. The bill also sets out the grounds for refusal for which a claim for financial compensation cannot be enforced. One of the grounds for refusal is the case in which the party has already received so-called fair compensation in proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights because of the breach of the fundamental right to conclude judicial proceedings within a reasonable time. The claim for financial compensation may be enforced in court civil non-court proceedings. In order to avoid parallel proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights and domestic proceedings, on the basis of the bill, the court should, of its own motion, examine whether the proceedings initiated by the applicant in connection with the withdrawal of the judicial proceedings referred to in the application are pending before the European Court of Human Rights. The court will, of course, also take into account the extent to which the procedural action or omission of the applicant and of the court in charge of the court in question contributed to the withdrawal of the proceedings. The Court considers that, in the course of the underlying legal proceedings, there was a period which was unnecessary either for the applicant or for the reasons which could be avoided in the interests of the court in question. This may be the case where the parties have jointly requested the suspension of the proceedings, i.e. the pending proceedings have not progressed of their own volition, or, for example, if the application has been rejected repeatedly because the party has not replaced the deficiencies of its application despite the court's request to remedy the deficiencies. [[15.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that by adopting the bill, we can take a significant step towards reducing the length of civil litigation for an unreasonable period of time. A fundamental right to the termination of civil proceedings within a reasonable period of time will be protected in particular and compensation for harm will be provided to citizens. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the bill, and I call on my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-26-110	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Csaba Gyüre, who presents the opinion of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Mr. Notary.
u2021-05-26-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Yes, there is another important bill before us, and a very old problem, I think, is a centuries-old problem not only in Hungary, but also elsewhere, in Europe and beyond: the delay of procedures. In this regard: I have been in the legal profession for 30 years, but in the thirty years, judicial executives have always had an important aspect of trying to eliminate prolonged procedures, trying to speed up procedures. Compared to this, we see that we have not always succeeded, and are still in the process, and we have come to the point that the European Court of Human Rights has already established a practice on the basis of which, in the case of prolonged litigation, a certain fee is set for these individuals whose litigation has been delayed. Obviously, in order to prevent these procedures from being excluded, this legislation is created. I think it is important legislation, and it can have a double effect, because, on the one hand, it is not the European Court of Human Rights, the ECHR, that will decide on this, but we will decide on it here in Hungary, and we also hope that if the courts continue to see that there are plans for this in Hungary, they will also work faster in certain cases. And why these proceedings had been delayed, my fellow Member of Bajkai has already said that it is not often the fault of the court that this is delayed, and I really wanted to raise my voice in every way, because obviously one has seen it with decades of legal practice when lawyers jointly announce that they are asking for a recess, and then the procedure is suspended for six months. Then the procedure starts again, because one of them asks, and then recesses for six months, and then again and again, because no one has done anything to obtain the evidence, and so is more comfortable, and the rest, and then we run into a period of four or five or eight years, and there is nothing the court can do here, because if the two parties ask together and the civil order gives us the opportunity to pause, so it is not one of the exceptions, then this recess must be ordered by the court. And the other thing is, when it comes to the fact that the parties don't submit the evidence within the deadline, they don't submit their respective requests in time, and the rest, so it goes on. Sadly, however, we are also concerned that many reasons outside of the clients and the lawyers who are acting are causing these court proceedings to go on. In the case of this: earlier, if we look at the experience of the last decade, we see that Tünde Hando, as president of the OBH, has attempted to speed up these cases, and indeed he has had to write serious reports by someone who has had a prolonged case for more than two years, and has also been under investigation as to why these cases exist. The reports always had to be put on the table. I was very pleased when President Seneyei, who followed Fae Hando in this position, said that he wanted a fundamentally different attitude in this regard, which does not mean that he wants to set deadlines, but he wants judges to be accounted for in a completely different way for cases that have lasted longer than two years. And many times it turned out that his problem was that the problem between the two positions was that, very often, during the Presidency of Tünde Hando, this acceleration was at the expense of quality in cases that lasted beyond two years. So, many times, judges have been fighting the case for two years, and rather, they have made a bad judgment, so that they do not have to write a report about it, they do not need a specific justification, they do not need to be investigated if necessary. If there is a wrong judgment, then there will be no problem, and rather, he made a wrong judgment, which was not well founded. And what does that add up to? Of course, in order to prolong the procedure, since the court of second instance will see that it is not sufficiently proved, it will be repealed, the procedure itself will start again, and we have already run into a five-year procedure, and in this five-year procedure the Court of Human Rights will say that it has indeed been damaged and that it will be established. It is therefore a good thing that this legislation is now being made, and on this basis, everyone will have the opportunity to know what conditions and what they will be entitled to. What I didn't like a bit is that here the government is fully in charge of determining the amount. I think that if the legislation itself is to be adopted by the Parliament, then the determination of the sum or threshold in this regard should, in my opinion, be the task of the Parliament, where appropriate. But, right now, right now, that's the bill. Obviously, the bill itself is better than nothing, than if it weren't. So I think it is absolutely important that this be introduced as soon as possible. And we are confident that the head of the National Court Office, or the executives of the administration, or the administrative directors of the court or district court administration, will gain more and more experience of how to speed up procedures and how to encourage judges to work faster in such a way that this does not go at the expense of quality. Because I think that quality is always more important than quantity, and that it should be a good time, but it should be a good judgment, a fair judgment, a judgment that will establish people's trust in courts, because this is a very important question. If we turn to concrete legislation, we see that Article 6 and Article 13 of the European Convention on European Rights are also the basis for this legislation, which is also reflected in Article 28 of the Fundamental Law, which is the declaration of the right to an effective remedy. Well, I have a few comments on this, which is not part of this legislation, but what we say here in Parliament is the problem of the State Audit Office, when the State Audit Office makes a statement, for example, this right of appeal laid down in the Fundamental Law does not appear, and there is no remedy against it, although it may result in very serious financial claims. I would like to mention, for example, a fine of hundreds of millions of dollars for Jobbik, a fine of 700 million, based on a record of such a State Court of Auditors inquiry, against which there is no remedy. Therefore, there is a right in the Fundamental Law if it cannot be applied in the affairs of the State Audit Office, and I would also bring here the fine cases of President Kövér, which are being brought to an appeal here, where there is a two-thirds fidesz majority, who will obviously never overrule it; and this has already been shown in practice. Therefore, I do not believe that the right to appeal applies here either, but in any case we welcome the fact that this obligation of the Fundamental Law applies at some level, so in this legislation we hope that it will prevail. A completely new system is being developed, a new concept, a new legal concept, will be introduced under the name of asset satisfaction, and new legal consequences will be introduced here, and it is indeed difficult to classify it, since we are not talking about compensation, we are not talking about compensation, and we are not talking about harm, which is why the concept of asset satisfaction was introduced in this case, which is a sui generis legal institution, and it provides fundamental rights protection, so obviously this is also very important. [[16.00]] The bill sets out one of the most important objectives, the promotion of efficiency and speed can obviously be fully agreed with this and the creation of redress. This is what I was talking about, how important the issue of redress is, and this is what this new legal institution, the asset satisfaction, has been introduced for. And obviously this legislation defines how to interpret when a procedure is delayed; we are generally talking about five years. If it lasts longer than five years from the date of the opening of the first instance procedure until the date of notification of the final decision concluding the procedure, so we are talking here from five years, and as my fellow Member from Bajkai has mentioned it, there are special cases where these five years should not be taken into account, since there are cases such as lawsuits concerning the status of persons, lawsuits to hold young children, where it is very important that the child does not become an adult by the time the court delivers judgment, and we must speak of a much shorter deadline on a maintenance issue or on a custody issue, and we will find this in the law. In such cases, if it is not achieved within a reasonable period, the citizen's fundamental right is violated and thus entitled to this financial satisfaction, which, as I have said, and with a somewhat critical tone, will be determined by a government decree, and not by law. So that's why I have some critical feelings about the bill. Obviously, there is no satisfaction to the party in the event that the European Court of Human Rights has already passed a judgment or is pending, and it is obviously very right that the court should examine this, that it has already been such a judgment, that the Hungarian State may have been condemned in this, or that there is a proceeding in the European Court of Human Rights. Thus, the financial compensation must be enforced against the court in the first instance, and here the jurisdiction is determined by the bill, according to which the Debrecen Tribunal and the Pécs Tribunal will act. It is very right that these courts cannot act in their own cases, but they will receive it from a court in a different area where they could not be present for reasons of jurisdiction in the main proceedings. So they won't be matters of his court, they'll come from a completely different area to the Debrecen Tribunal and the Pécs Tribunal. The legislation also sets the date for which this can be presented, and also for the courts to have a very binding deadline to deal with these matters. This is basically 15 days, and it will still have to be submitted to the court within 30 days, and then within 3 months the relevant decision will have to be taken by the court. This means that, within a relatively short period of time, these procedures will be completed and will have access to this financial satisfaction as soon as possible, if the client has a well-founded request, he will obtain this, except, of course, and this is particularly highlighted in the legislation, if this time has gone unnecessarily because of the reason which the applicant has had to take care of, and that is why this procedure has been so long. So, overall, you can agree with the law. The legislation shall enter into force on 1 January 2022 and, until 31 December 2022, the claim for financial compensation shall be enforceable only in final judicial cases. And one more important thing is that the applicant has the right to register a levy, so if his claim is justified, then he will not have to pay a levy. Obviously, in the event that it was unfounded, this will be imposed subsequently, so the interests of the client will not be harmed. If you're right, there's no need to advance extra money in any form. On the basis of all this, I think that it is clear that better legislation could be made, but it is obviously more important now that these issues are not brought to the EU stage. Obviously, in the context of the summary, we have also found that the European Union courts are setting compensation against the Hungarian State in a much higher order of magnitude, so that everyone will be aware of the subject of infringement or the length of the proceedings, the amount to which the claim for financial compensation may be lodged in the court. On this basis, the draft legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-26-112	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Imre Vejkey, who presents the opinion of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-113	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill for the introduction of financial compensation for the withdrawal of civil proceedings is to contribute to the exercise of the right to an effective remedy provided for in Article 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is declared in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, within a reasonable period of time, and in that context. The bill explicitly places the fundamental right to complete civil proceedings within a reasonable period of time under special legal protection, while at the same time sanctioning the violation of which cannot be exempted by means of financial compensation. The bill therefore lays down, as a general rule, the duration of the judicial procedure, which is also adjusted by the amount of the financial compensation to compensate for the length of the proceedings. The court proceedings shall run from the date of the first instance proceedings until the date of notification of the final decision closing the proceedings. Where a final decision is subject to a request for review, the judgment given in the review procedure shall also be taken by the final decision closing the procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, In general, the bill declares a period of five years, i.e. 60 months, to be sufficient to complete the civil proceedings. In addition, the procedural periods necessary for the completion of certain stages of civil proceedings have been established, so that the first instance procedure is considered reasonable for a maximum period of 30 months, second instance proceedings for a maximum period of 18 months and review proceedings for a maximum period of 12 months. In cases requiring more rapid treatment, as has been said, for example in cases of child custody, labour lawsuits, shorter periods have been set. The full court proceedings are open for three years, including 18 months for first instance proceedings, 12 months for second instance proceedings and 6 months for review proceedings. If the procedure is brought by a order for payment procedure, a longer period of time is justified, so that 36 months is available for the conduct of the first instance procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, The amount of the amount to be considered as financial compensation will have to be calculated on the basis of the government decree to be issued for the implementation of the bill. In order to avoid double compensation, a party who has already received so-called fair compensation in the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights is excluded from the right to additional financial compensation in that case. Ladies and Gentlemen, The claim shall be made against the court which has acted in the first instance in the prolonged case, and if a court has acted in the first instance, and against the court whose jurisdiction falls within the district court of the first instance. The claim for compensation of property shall be enforceable in court proceedings of civil non-court; in the case of non-court proceedings, only documentary evidence shall be given. [[16.10]] The court shall decide on the basis of available documents in a simplified written procedure. The bill places the exclusive competence on the Debrecen and Pécs Tribunals, assessing these non-court proceedings. In order to facilitate the enforcement of the financial compensation, the initiating party to the non-court procedure has the right to a fixed levy. The court shall take a substantive decision within three months of receipt of the parties' statements of substance. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/16218. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-114	Thank you, Congressman. László Varga, who presents the opinion of the MSZP Group, closes the main speakers. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My situation is not as simple as that of my fellow Member Vejkey; I will obviously put on the table other aspects, not primarily in relation to the content of the proposal, but in relation to, say, its timeliness and its history. The proposal is justified and its justification emerges from the explanatory memorandum, from which I would like to quote a few sentences. The European Court of Human Rights, hereinafter referred to as the ECHR, has repeatedly indicated in recent decades that the Hungarian legal system does not provide a domestic remedy deemed effective by the ECHR to meet the requirement of Article 13 of the Convention, which would serve in full to prevent the length of judicial proceedings and to remedy the violation of the law caused by such procedures. In its judgment in Gazsó v Hungary, the ECHR called on our country to establish a domestic remedy or a set of remedies which can adequately address the structural deficiencies identified in the judgment in accordance with the agreed principles laid down in the ECHR case law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The proposal therefore refers to the past decades, but in this respect it is not entirely honest, if I put it mildly, the case of Gazsó v. Hungary, in which we were specifically called upon to establish such rules, so by creating the relevant rules in 2015, the current government is the debtor, so it is certainly not a matter of decades. Despite the fact that, at the end of 2018, the government had already submitted a bill in this regard, which also had a general debate, and which, according to Parliament's website, is still awaiting the procedure of the Legislative Committee. So, not only compared to 2015, but also compared to their respective 2018 drafts, the government is slipping despite the fact that Pp. Its significant transformation has been carried out since 2018. In short, the proposal is indeed current, so it is current since 2015. It would have been particularly relevant since the new Civil Procedure Act was adopted by the Parliament in 2016 after long preparatory work and entered into force in 2018. The new Pp. Its declared purpose was to shorten the time of litigation in addition to the creation of professional litigation. This abbreviation is the new Pp. In view of its significant transformation and the present law, it has not fulfilled its expectations. The Constitutional Court itself stated in its decision 3024/2016/AB that, unfortunately, it does not have the opportunity to remedy such problems, and that it can only indicate the unreasonable length of the lawsuits. The recipe of the proposal is, in fact, similar to prison damages, defining a category of cases to which a specific tariff is associated. This solution clearly did not result, not at such a level that the government itself called its own applicable law and the practice based on it as prison business, so in this other case. The proposal sets out in particular the time within which the termination of which type of civil procedure can be considered reasonable, i.e. what it considers to be reasonable for each type of procedure. On the basis of the proposal, the maximum length of proceedings for the completion of the first instance procedure is 36 months, 18 months for the second instance procedure and 12 months for the review procedure. This means that the termination of a lawsuit can be considered reasonable on the basis of the proposal if it takes five and a half years. In certain cases, this period is shorter, for example, in child or labour lawsuits, it is clearly justified that 36 months, i.e. three years. Although the proposal provides for the possibility for courts to set a shorter time limit for proceedings in the event of financial compensation for length of time, the law does not provide any criteria for this, it says that the court must justify a shorter time definition based on all the circumstances of the case. On the basis of the proposal, the exact amounts of compensation are set out in a regulation by the Government, which will therefore take place on the basis of a regulation. The proposal suffers from exactly the same problem as legislation on prison damages, it does not solve the real problem, but orders a tariff for the infringement. According to the proposal, it is normal for a civil trial to take five and a half months, and for a child-receiving case to take three years. This alone is not acceptable, a period of five and a half years is not justified in a case with a simple view, and it can easily be a very complicated case that may take longer even in normal circumstances. What causes this to be a problem is that victims will have an obligation to use this procedure before they can turn to the European Court of Human Rights, which means that after a five-and-a-half-year trial, customers still have to initiate this procedure and then go to the ECHR, drastically pushing the length of the procedure. This may take more than four months in the case of financial settlement in relation to the withdrawal of proceedings. Based on the practice of the ECHR, the conclusion of the procedure within a reasonable period of time is not the fundamental point of how long overall it took, but rather of the fact that there were unjustified delays between certain procedural acts. This means that a case lasting for a period of seven years may be justified in extreme cases, and in a case of two years it may have taken longer than would have been justified, because there is a six-month delay when the court has not acted in court where appropriate. With regard to the rationality of the length of the procedure, the case law of the ECHR takes into account four aspects. The complexity of the case is one of these aspects, which may justify the length of the procedure, but beyond a given period there cannot be a basis for rescue. Secondly, I must mention the party's involvement, its responsibility for the length of time, and its due diligence in the procedural activities that are important to him. The third is the procedure of the organ, and the fourth is the case law of the ECHR. However, this approach does not appear in the proposal, which gives a maximum absolute value, from which, although potentially, there is the possibility of a derogation, which is, however, an additional obligation for the courts. So, in summary and in short, the proposal can be considered problematic in three aspects. On the one hand, it extends the procedure already too long for the citizen seeking compensation, given that the proposal also establishes the length given to the first and second instance procedure. On the other hand, there is an additional burden for the courts in the sense that, if they wish to derogate from the general principles introduced by the proposal, they must justify the derogation in such a way that they do not have any substance in the proposal. Thirdly, because it does not solve the real problem and does not even transpose the system of criteria that it certainly meets the relevant legal and international obligations. The proposal reflects on a real problem, and I do not dispute it and we do not dispute it; as regards its timeliness, my main point is that a proposal has been up-to-date since 2015. The proposal does not respond by the most appropriate means to the problems, making previous mistakes that have already been made in similar cases as I have mentioned. [[16.20]] A real solution could be to increase the effectiveness of litigation, but continuing judicial redress or discrediting the public will certainly not provide a real solution to these problems. In view of the above, I can say for the time being that our group can abstain from the proposal, and we are obviously looking forward to seeing how the final norm will work either after the procedure of the Judicial Committee or the Legislative Committee. Let's hope it can get better. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-05-26-116	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Our next speaker was the first independent Member. I therefore give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My learned colleagues have presented the legal content of this proposal to the extent and in detail that I do not want to talk about this issue in this form. I would rather talk about everyday practice, which would have demanded for a very long time that some such proposal be put before the Parliament even if the European Court of Justice had not established that the agreement was not in line with the Hungarian practice. You all know that the blessed activities of the pro-government press have resulted in quite a lot of harsh attacks and, of course, I have launched personality lawsuits before the Hungarian courts. My experience is so pathetic, I'll probably write a book about it. Even though the Parliament has created the new civil order, even though they are now at last, in a very small number, but the deadlines to be observed for judges are not fulfilled by a single judge. I've never seen one judge try to get past the lawsuit before, quickly ordering the procedure of proof to bring these lawsuits to an end within a reasonable time. I am not, of course, talking about the ignominious statements that have been made by judges in criminal matters, such as the fact that these harsh attacks are neither abusive nor violate my honor. So something amazing they dare to do under the cover of judicial independence. The proposal will, of course, enjoy my support, but I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I would finally like to see a system set up that would also increase the citizens' sense of justice and confidence in the judicial system, and that is to say that there should be consequences for judges if a procedure has been delayed and, therefore, compensation or compensation from the public's common money, from the budget, has to be paid. A large part of the judges believe that they are in a retirement position, i.e. they will never be called to account for the wrong exercise of law, the violation of procedural rules, the complete misinterpretation of substantive law, the intention of the legislator and thus the wrong and unjust decisions. I do not think that the common burden of taxpayers must be that judges are unable to do their job according to their oaths and are unable to comply with the rules on which they have sworn and which have been worked and created by the work of many decent people by Parliament. A multitude of judges smack the legislator in the face, and when someone dares to ask how you think about it, he immediately calls for judicial independence. The judges are not independent of the law. If the legislator says that a measure has to be taken in 30 days, and he refuses to do so within 90 days, and someone asks him to do so, he believes that this is an intervention in his autonomy, although it is nothing more than requiring the provisions of the legislation. When a judge refuses to write the decisions on time to draw the case, and the client waits months to receive it in writing so that he can exercise the right of legal remedy and dares to speak, the answer is that it is a question of judicial independence when the judge takes his decision in writing. I must say, fellow Members, and I would like to stress that I generally bend to the ground in front of honest judges, I am so respectable, and in general, if I meet such a thing either through my former work or through personal trials or criminal cases, then I declare the length of the street that I have met a great judge. Unfortunately, however, this experience is greatly hampered by the work of judges who are not at all interested in a fair trial, since no one will ever ask them for faulty decisions, procedural violations. I must say, Mr Secretary of State, that I am not pleased that the measures will be set by regulation, because we would very much like to have a say in this. Now imagine, Mr. Secretary, that there is a trial worth fifty million, which is not a big deal, because today a medium-sized apartment in Buda has the same value, and, let's say, in a joint cessation of property, it can be worth 30-40-50 million forints. If the procedure is delayed, for example, such a fee should be set on the basis of such a value. So it would not be good, as my fellow Member, László Varga, said earlier, that the European Court of Justice will be able to be called upon if this forum is used. By the way, I have to say, I agree with him in law. Only if we don't know what the levels will be here now, and later it will come to light that these levels set out in the government decree are not really adapted to the alleged damage caused by the delay in the proceedings, then what happens? The client is forced to use this forum, receive a really symbolic amount, if the judge at all accepts in the non-court proceedings that it was the court's responsibility to prolong the proceedings, and then when this very modest amount is awarded to him, he can go to the European Court of Justice. Or if you do not judge and go to the European Court of Justice at all, because, based on its decisions and its system of principles, it has been offensive to the length of the procedure, you will receive a significantly higher level of fair European judicial practice, which we already know from a wide range of practices, than I think, that we will expect from the Government Decree. So in this respect, for example, I am not asking you to do this because I do not trust that a government decree can determine this, but I would prefer to vote for it by, for example, that there will be compensations of between HUF 200 and 300 thousand, for which, forgive me, even a poorer person will not start, because if it is not successful, it will still cost him. So that is why I agree with my fellow Member, László Varga, that it would have been better if, at least in the expo, Mr Secretary of State had tried to show us the extent of the government's ideas on this. By the way, let me tell my fellow Members that I am so involved that my life has lasted 21 years, my family's only trial. It stretches because the other side always finds a judge in a joint-ownership termination suit who is always keen to pull the procedure, sets a hearing on time, and sends out documents to react within time limits that allow time between two negotiations to pass so long that the other party has to keep the values up-to-date. Due to the new valuation, more semesters will pass, and then again due to the later scheduled trial, the slow delivery of documents. So imagine, for example, a six - year - old chapter in a six - year period during which you still couldn't get to the third. Judge of the District Court, four times the value has been updated, four times the value of the same small apartment in order to help the judge prosecute. So what I can tell you, fellow Members, is that if anyone is, then I know how serious such a proposal is. The other issue is that I hope that the judges who will assess these needs will be customer-centred and not biased in favour of their colleagues, that they will try to save that na, but the client later submitted a document, and it took three months for the case, while otherwise the judge will drag the case through various clever procedures for five or six years. [[16.30]] Let me just say one more thing, and I want to stress that this really isn't the government's responsibility. Here's this new Pp., the goal was to get the lawsuit to go quickly, filter it out to be suitable for trial, not suitable for what to prove. Mr. Secretary. There are lawsuits among my colleagues where the eighth court hearing will take place next week. Court hearing, the eighth, so that at the end of the first, the judge informs the plaintiff that his legal basis, with which he came here, will not stop. So think about it now, the legislator wanted to do everything in his power to speed up proceedings, and in a year and a half, there's no way to at least close the lawsuit! So, abstractly, a piece of legislation can result in a decent intention to make procedures spin, go, finish quickly, because citizens' faith in legal certainty will thus remain or relive it, while the people who, on the other hand, have to fulfill the government's intention to do so and establish its credibility, because the credibility of the government is that the judges will follow it, they will crush it with their feet. So with all due respect, I would ask that the judicial government try to start a consultation, like with the OBH, so that judges who have prosecuted the lawsuits, or because of long lawsuits, should have personal responsibility. Now, think about whatever profession we're talking about, a doctor takes out the uterus to pierce the bladder. What's happening to him? Procedures, criminal proceedings, damages proceedings, or the employer may be accountable to him, even though a measure within moments, such as the action during the operation, or a decision under the fraction of the moments, may cause such a decision. But it's a serious responsibility because it could cost a man his life, right? Or, for example, a trainer who misplaced the transmission and has a huge accident. They're all responsible. The engineer, in order not to break down the bridge, so that the house does not sink, so that the square stone does not come up prematurely, the cover. In every profession, there is an obligation of personal responsibility. Not in one profession, that's for the judges. He's not there. Let's just say the prosecutors don't have much, but it's a different team, it's a centralized organization, it doesn't matter what kind of indictment he puts there, if the judge gives a fair verdict, then it doesn't matter whether the prosecutor was fair or not, the court can correct the errors. So, what I'm trying to say is that we're talking about a bill here, which is that the procedures go on for no reason, and the state's taking responsibility for that. But I'm sorry now. The state doesn't have its own money, it's the taxpayers who add it up, including the taxpayer who's in the court right now, and it's practically the taxpayers who pay for it instead of the judges who refuse to comply with the law. You like what I'm saying, don't you? So I don't want to hurt or attack, I want to show that this is abnormal, even if it is a completely normal expectation in European forums. By the way, I think that Italy's examples were the most justified, because there are sometimes the simplest lawsuits for twenty to thirty years. So a number of EU countries have provided enough ground to think about regulating this on the European stage, but regardless of this regulatory intention, citizens will eventually pay compensation instead of judges. Well, I apologize. If it were the experience here that judges would bring a series of fair judgments according to the principles, according to the expectations, there are no repeals, there are no changes, we would only bring these proposals to this House, because at the European forum we are forced to make these rules as partners, and we say that look, they expect us to be on the European stage, but, you know, we will not really apply them here in Hungary, because the Hungarian judges comply with all the rules. That would be best, wouldn't it? Sure. Let's vote it out. You'll never have to use it. But I'm afraid that's not true, Mr. Secretary. I'm afraid not. I wish. So, a hundred words have one end, of course I'll vote for it, but with great respect, in case you respond in rejoinder to what you have in mind for the damages. They were just thinking about something so that we could have at least one guide, what citizens could expect if they were in such a situation. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-26-118	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to respond. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Several topics have been raised here during the debate, several questions. It has occurred to me why this new proposal is in front of this House, why we are not discussing an earlier one. The Council of Europe, the ECHR, has been in constant consultation and, taking into account the practice, the proposal for changes has been based on the draft that we can now discuss. My fellow Member, Mr Gyüre, has asked me how interruptions and other litigations relate to the summation of this kind of financial satisfaction. These are dealt with by the bill, which is not due to the action of the courts, where these periods are not to be taken into account. It has been considered why the measure of satisfaction is set in a government decree, which is set at a daily amount. Because it can be much more flexible for changing judicial practice, it will be possible to adapt it to European practice in Strasbourg, if necessary. However, when establishing the period, if it is exceeded, these amounts will not be fixed for the period of overrun, but for the whole period of time, of course. We see this kind of squaring, that even the length of the first-degree procedure can provide a legal basis for enforcing this need. The bias of the courts. It is clear that it is not the court in which this infringement takes place, but two court-appointed courts with exclusive jurisdiction, precisely so that there are no such circumstances giving rise to personal contact, so that the court's decision cannot be challenged by reference to that. As far as the points concerning judges are concerned, they are not the subject of this circle. Of course, the Member also knows very well that in virtually all matters relating to the courts, apart from Strasbourg, we can see that the Commission exists, there is a court in Luxembourg, so this is a very sensitive area. But any proposal that would, in effect, be made within the courts and would try a little in this regard, so to speak, really appreciate the work of the judges, would obviously also be of interest to this House. But what I'm saying is that this is a delicate issue that I don't think can be approached with greater vehemency, so I apologize for how and how personal responsibility can appear. As far as judicial action is concerned, fortunately, there is a multi-level procedure, so the truth seekers have to say, at some point, certain, as professionalism increases by reaching these levels, that may be guaranteed. So, overall, I would like to thank everyone who spoke during the debate on the proposal. Please vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws concerning party foundations until closure. The submission submitted by our Fidesz fellow Member István Bajkai T/16222. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I therefore give the floor first to Mr István Bajkai, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor. [[16.40]]
u2021-05-26-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As many of us know, in our country, parties have a prominent role to play in shaping and expressing the will of citizens, their basic purpose is to provide a democratic organisational framework for participation in political life. The National Assembly therefore created the XXXIII of 1989 in order to promote freedom of association and political rights of citizens and the democratic representation and validation of the various interests and values existing in society. Law. It is now three decades later that it is timely to amend the Act on Scientific, Educational, Research and Educational Foundations to assist the functioning of Hungarian parties in a way that allows the Party Foundation to carry out additional economic enterprise activities directly linked to the implementation of the Foundation's objective. The aim is to recognise the development of our country's political culture and the improvement of the level of knowledge dissemination, the integration of scientific work into the political public. The proposal lays down as a guarantee rule that the economic entrepreneurship of the party foundation should not jeopardise the original objectives. As is known, the property of the parties from the fees paid by the members, from the support from the central budget, from the budget allocation provided by the parliamentary group of the party, against the budget allocation provided by the parliamentary group for the operating conditions of the parliamentary group, by the State in accordance with Article 5 of the Act. of the property transferred free of charge pursuant to Article 6 of the Act, of the property contributions of natural persons by Hungarian citizens, of the estate of natural persons on the basis of a final measure, of the party's right to vote in accordance with Article 6 of the Act. It may be derived from its economic activity as defined in Article 4 of the Act or from the taxable profits of a single-member limited liability company established by the Party. Ladies and gentlemen, Pursuant to the law, economic activity is an economic activity which is engaged in or resulting in the acquisition of income and wealth, with the exception of the acceptance of the gift, the transfer of funds into deposits, securities, company shares, and the acquisition, transfer and transfer of the property. The proposal also clarifies and makes more concrete the rules on the obligation of party foundations to draw up accounts. The State Audit Office is entitled to verify the legality of the party's management. I would point out here that a party cannot accept a financial contribution from another State, regardless of its legal status and not a Hungarian citizen from a natural person, nor can the party accept an anonymous donation. A party which has accepted a financial contribution at this stage, i.e. in breach of the rule in the cited place of law in paragraphs 2 and 3 shall pay its value to the central budget at the request of the State Court of Auditors within 15 days and, in the event of delay, the debt shall be recovered as a form of taxes. The Party's support from the central budget shall be reduced by an amount equivalent to the value of the agreed financial contribution. If the party has not received the financial contribution, it shall ensure its value and its value. If this rule is infringed by the Party and it has accepted a prohibited non-cash contribution, its value shall be determined by the State Audit Office. I have given a framework for the functioning of the parties in relation to the proposal quoted, and I would therefore like to quote one more place from the legislation. Act on the operation and management of parties 9/A. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Party may establish a foundation for the development of political culture for the purpose of carrying out scientific, educational, research and educational activities. Through education and scientific work, we can learn more about the political processes of our country. This institution deepens the knowledge and experience of the rule of law and democracy. In the context of the amendment, the proposal clarifies that the economic entrepreneurship of the party foundation can be regarded as an additional activity and that the Act 9/A. In relation to the activities set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1 of this Article, economic entrepreneurship is intended to achieve scientific, educational, research and educational objectives as fully as possible. The proposal also lays down as a guarantee rule that the economic entrepreneurship of the party foundation should not jeopardise the above objectives. On the basis of the above, I highly recommend that the honourable Members accept the proposal and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-122	Thank you. I'm going to ask if someone would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Then we will continue our work with the speaker's speeches. Once again, I give the floor to István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor again.
u2021-05-26-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have also tried to give a framework to the draft, and I would like to return to the proposal with a little briefness in my speech as the lead speaker. Our Fundamental Law states that the parties are involved in shaping and declaring the will of the people. The present bill is an XLVII of 2003 on foundations for scientific, educational, educational and educational activities that help parties operate. Act CLXXV of 2011 on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. initiates an amendment of the law. The most important element of the bill complements the Act on Party Foundations by allowing party foundations to engage in future economic enterprise activities related to their goals. It is an important point in the amendment that this activity may be carried out in such a way that it cannot jeopardise the functioning of the Foundation and the fulfilment of its objectives. In addition, this type of economic activity can only be pursued by separate management of its accounting records, which also serves the transparent functioning of the foundations. The law 6/A. It clearly states what constitutes an economic activity in respect of foundations and also defines the main areas which do not fall within the already mentioned activity. Thus, the collection of donations, funds placed in deposits, securities, corporate holdings and forms of activities related to the acquisition and transfer of real estate are excluded. The amendment clarifies that foundations are not only subject to reporting obligations but also to the obligation to apply accounting rules, so that the reporting rules set out in the civil law also apply to them. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the legislative amendment facilitates and extends the functioning of parties' foundations and regulates properly the economic areas in which foundations can exercise their own management powers, and creates the possibility of extensive and regulated control, which is a very important and recognised area and is also of paramount importance. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the bill, and I call on my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-124	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, who presents the opinion of the Jobbik Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are in the debate on the bill on the functioning of the party foundations. With the proposal that parties can also engage in economic activity, if this is approved by Parliament, Parliament, then, of course, the reporting rules will also change, and I would like to mention this in my speech. As civil society organisations, the party foundations will be obliged to report on their annual activities on the basis of the reporting obligation for civil society organisations in the next period. [[16.50]] This is also important in order to manage the activities, revenues, expenditure and costs corresponding to the basic objectives and the revenues, costs and expenses resulting from economic activity according to a separate register. This is the case for civilians anyway, and it will be the same for the parties in the near future. If we look at the entry into force, then the party foundations will also be able to carry out economic activities from 1 July. The legislation, as has been said in the speaker's speech and in the exposé, clarifies the activities that party foundations can carry out in the near future. I hope that transparency will indeed be the primary target, and not to carry out any further activity that is not related to the aims of the party foundations. I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that they are created for scientific and educational purposes. And indeed, as has been said, it is important to promote the functioning of the parties and the Hungarian parliamentarianism as widely as possible, this is what the party foundations are for, and in the near future, the obligation to draw up accounts will also burden them in the same way as any other foundation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-26-126	Thank you. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, who will present the opinion of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-127	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member István Bajkai said, this bill amends the rules on the activities of party foundations by clarifying the technical provisions relating to the functioning of party foundations. The aim of the clarification is to clarify that the economic and business activities of the party foundation can be regarded as complementary activities by Ptv. 9/A. § 1 in relation to the activities defined in paragraph 1. The bill also clarifies the rules on the obligation of party foundations to draw up accounts. I would not wish to repeat what my fellow Member has already said in his expo and in his speech, so I would end my thoughts by saying that the parliamentary group of the KDNP supports T/16222. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Bajkai applauds.]]
u2021-05-26-128	Thank you, Congressman. At the end of the lead speaker's round, I now give the floor to the first independent Member. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Citizens, The Parliament is discussing a proposal to enable party foundations to carry out economic activities as a complementary activity. Anyone who is familiar with the legislation on civil society organisations could ask why it is necessary to legislate on this right now, since basically civil society organisations can act as complementary activities to economic activity. But in order not to abuse the use of the benefits received in party foundations financed by taxpayers' money, there has been a distingent and fair political public life over the last 30 years that he has said that he is taking party foundations out of this circle, given that party foundations operate at least 95 percent of taxpayers' money and budget support. While civil society organisations, associations and foundations generally build up their financial order and resources from private people's donations, from private people's common activities, from founders' assets, while party foundations receive a large part of the funds from taxpayers' money. And what does it look like, please, that taxpayers make a very gallant donation of their taxes to party foundations, and then party foundations can make more profit out of it as a result of economic activity? You know, please, in economics, capitalism, who gives money, it's usually either equity or profit that gets a share, that's normal. So, as a lawyer, of course, I say that this rule is only for equal constitutional rights, as civil society organisations can generally carry out economic activities as complementary activities. Now, please, in Hungary, where, uniquely in the world, taxpayers honor party foundations in an amazing manner compared to people's income conditions? I just want to give you an example. In 2011, the annual allocation of the party foundations was: MSZP 259 million, Fidesz 411 million, KDNP 69 million, Jobbik 25 million, LMP 80 million. That was 2011. The following amounts are now included in the 2022 budget, which taxpayers will give to party foundations: Fidesz 1 billion 500 million, MSZP 359 million, Jobbik 702 million, LMP 213 million, KDNP 150 million. This means, please, that taxpayers will now give such sums to the party foundations from 1 July to carry out risky transactions. You all know that the State Audit Office controls the use of public funds and carries out annual comprehensive investigations of both parties and party foundations. Yes, but by introducing the possibility of a risky business by the legislator, the State Audit Office cannot examine whether this economic activity has been treated as a good farmer by the party foundation and that if the money is squandered, then is someone responsible. So what I can say is that today I would have expected a representative of every opposition group to stand up and say that I do not want that, because I do not want the whole political department to lose its credibility in front of the citizens, because ordinary people have no idea what we are discussing here in Parliament today, no idea with which amazing amounts taxpayers support parties and party foundations. Of course, citizens would expect such support to show that there is a very serious political activity going on and that everyone should make their own proposals to correct the errors of different government systems and to modify systems. Well, they don't see that. But you can watch the Treasury pay these huge sums. You know, fellow Members, in the last few days, the hard core of the left-wing voting camp has been for me to be sure that the Fidesz is paying me. What I can tell you is that I don't need Fidesz to pay me, because after 38 years of work, I may have enough money to make a party and introduce them, but who are paid by Fidesz, because the two-thirds majority, Fidesz, KDNP, which votes for these in this House, well, it pays the opposition parties very well. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It doesn't matter whether a member of the opposition will press a button on this proposal, for example, it doesn't matter whether the governing majority in this House will vote for this legislation by a two-thirds majority. And then you can say that I wasn't there, I didn't say anything, I didn't vote, I don't want to know about this law. Just know what is interesting, honourable fellow Members and dear citizens: no party has paid back a penny of the increased salary, the increased state aid, that I did not want to do so. There is one end to a hundred words: everyone must admit to society that the parties are financed extremely gallantly by taxpayers, there is no reason to complain, because if people knew that, they might have expectations and expectations of political communities. The money flows out, apparently with no results, and now we are still there with this proposal, even if it does not violate constitutional fundamental rights at all, that they can even enter into, open, please, car salon, seft with real estate, practically in any area of economic life they can safely include it in speculative transactions that are permitted by the MNB, and then either make a profit or not. I do not think that Hungarian taxpayers are giving these funds to people who do not even know that they are able to carry out business effectively, to use these funds. [[17.00]] Think about it. We're talking about billions. Such money has never been seen by people who have built entrepreneurial activities from their own resources. Families also build small, small workshops from their rounded forints and try to increase them, and a lot of people and entrepreneurs, who are in an extremely difficult economic situation after the epidemic, do not have such resources, but because someone has a party and a party foundation, they are now not only getting a lot of money, but they can manage it practically unlimitedly. I would very much like to ask my fellow Member from Bajkai that, in his reply, I hope he will tell me or us how, for example, he will be able to make sure that these funds are actually spent on scientific and cultural activities, and that they cannot be involved in economic activities from which there is no profit, but a loss. What the State Court of Auditors will measure or measure will be the comparative basis, data, or what will be the view with which it will be able to judge that this economic activity has indeed been realistic, and that it is not a waste, or it is simply luck or disaster that has come or is in such an unexpected economic situation that it cannot be called into account if these money is not valuable and does not serve the purpose effectively. I know that these are very strict words, but I apologize, we are citizens, we are citizens, we are taxpayers, and we would very much like to know that these funds can be left to people who, by the way, in economic life, do not play any kind of role in the world, they do not have any practice. However, we are talking about hundreds of millions of forints of resources, and as the other people of England say, it is easy to spend other people's money, well, there is taxpayers' money here, so I would very much like everyone to place a very serious emphasis on responsible management in the future. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-26-130	Good afternoon. I wanted to continue the work with the question of asking if someone wanted to make use of the opportunity to speak, but by the time I had said so, István Bajkai, a representative of Fidesz, also came forward. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a brief statement by our fellow Member Varga-Damm, because on the matter of my fellow Member, it was somehow said that economic entrepreneurship was, I don't know, a sin or some kind of persecuted attitude. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Risk!]] Although my fellow Member, Andrea Varga-Damm, asked specifically at the committee meeting whether, compared to other civil society organisations, where this regulation is natural and has been present for many decades, so the supplementary continuation of economic enterprise activity, why this was not already regulated in the case of party foundations, then a few weeks ago, or perhaps a week ago, Andrea Varga-Damm did not give this long speech at the committee meeting, even using the expression that this was a kind of equality of rights [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I told you now!]] In the case of civil society organisations, there is a complementary business activity, and in the case of party foundations, why is there no business activity? Now we've heard a different approach from him. I should like to say briefly to my fellow Member that the legislation itself contains the text that the party foundation may continue in a complementary manner to economic entrepreneurship, so that its original objectives cannot be compromised in its articles of association. So there's a legal ban, and there's a legal framework for what the company can and can't do. I think that the debate would go very far if we continued the idea of who those people in the party foundation or in the company are now not able to engage in such an activity. However, with regard to the responsibilities of the Civil Code, in particular with regard to senior officials, the Criminal Code likewise contains rules concerning the inadequate management of assets or assets that protect, I think, the interests of property, and they are duly sanctioned if the rules of management of assets, the provision of wealth are violated. I do not think it is a question that party foundations carry out significant tasks in terms of education, scientific work and the dissemination of knowledge. I don't think that right can be taken away. Until my colleague, Mr Andrea Varga-Damm, spoke, I think that this did not happen in Hungary. I think that if party foundations from their economic entrepreneurship activities can support and promote this activity, which is included in their statutes, it will only provide sufficient support for research for the deepening of political culture, the functioning of the rule of law, the functioning of parties or their historical nature, and I think that we should actually support it. I would just like to respond briefly to what my fellow Member has said. In Hungary, thank God, both the State Audit Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the court, the enforcement bodies or the investigative bodies are well prepared to deal with any abuses raised by my fellow Member. I think that this legislative framework is appropriate not only for party foundations but also for civil society organisations, and if there is an infringement, they will act as they are subject to procedural obligations. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-132	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Now I ask István Bajkai, he wishes to reflect as a rapporteur or to give any opinion. [[For signal:]] He just finished his line of thought, so it makes sense. I'm gonna say no. The amendment proposals, Honourable Parliament, can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1993 LXXVIII on certain arrangements for renting apartments and premises and their disposal. Act 1 and Act CXCVI of 2011 on National Property. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The submission submitted by MEP László Böröcz, Fidesz, is the T/16223. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to MEP László Böröcz, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of this law, which has been at the centre of attention in many respects over the last few weeks, is to provide the largest possible number of people living in the apartments in Hungary, in municipal and public housing. But where this whole law began or why it came to this, I would like to give some thought in the first round. In 2019 in the municipal campaign, specifically in District I, Mayor Márta V. Naszályi I. made a promise to the residents, the people living in the historic apartments, to help them get what they have been waiting for 30 years to buy these apartments into reality. But it didn't happen, and it turned out not so much later that the mayor's wife, after being elected mayor, was not in her right mind to sell these apartments, but announced in a quasi-residential forum that they would not sell these apartments and even raise rent and tighten the conditions for housing. Of course, this allowed people to feel deceived, and they were right to be upset about it. More than 700 signatures have been collected against this, the modification of the local housing regulations, and the fact that these apartments can still be purchased. Obviously, many of the tenants involved contacted me, I met hundreds of local residents personally myself, so we also launched a questionnaire that actually asked questions about how the people who lived there would like to buy their apartments. [[17.10]] It should be known that until 2019 or 2020, until this scandal broke out in District I, there was a status quo between tenants there and the municipality, since in 1994 and 95, when many people could buy their apartments at a very reduced price even in a neighboring building, those who lived in monument houses and lived in monument houses could not do so, unlike everyone else, and they waited 30 years to do so. The current bill obviously concerns a much broader circle, but it will settle or settle the situation of the apartments of the Castle and the district I, the tenants who have suffered injustice and injustice over the last thirty years. [[Continue in 203/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary I would also like to say that more than 500 people have completed the questionnaire in which we asked local stakeholders what they wanted to do, and that is actually the way in which the bill was drafted itself. After that, because this was written in several places in the press, and several people talked about it, it was then that I received an unforgiving amount of letters and requests from myself not from the people of the first district, not from the first district, from all the parts of the country, not only from the people living in monument homes, but from everyone else, to find a solution to their situation, because they too would like to buy their own property. The special situation in Hungary is that 86 percent of people live in private homes, which are the highest in Europe, and of course there are completely different housing structures in different countries in Europe, but they have undergone different historical developments and have solved housing quite differently. In Hungary, most people want to live in their own apartments, and I think it is in the interest of a politician, a political party, and it must be borne in mind to help people get their own apartments. The government obviously has different programmes for this, but as far as the people living in municipal housing are concerned, this proposal, which we are discussing today, gives at least some of the people in municipal rentals the opportunity to do so. Now, from here to the press, after the left, from Jobbik to DK, from LMP to Momentum, no one seems to support it through the Dialogue. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: To steal? No!]] I think it's clear from this point on that we can say that in order to give people who live in municipal housing to their own property. It's obvious, too. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] and, of course, I have had a lot of discussions, too, that many improvements have been made by mayors and various Members. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] And obviously many of these parts can be taken into account here. It can also be seen that this area, as many mayors, has come up with so many proposals, and, of course, I believe that it should be forced to do so. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] I do not want my own opinion on anything else, it is a proposal that could be the subject of a debate. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP. Nacsa Lawrence: Relax.]] Therefore, we would like to go back to the solution that we want primarily to solve the unfair situation of the tenants living in the historic dwelling, who have lived in Budapest's World Heritage Site, which has been going on for thirty years, and in all other respects, the municipalities will be able to decide whether or not to make use of the sale. I would also like to emphasise that I propose that everyone, whether they are left-wing or right-wing, should be given the opportunity to buy their apartments as widely as possible. The only way to get a significant part of these people to their own apartments is to strengthen their housing by helping them buy their local government rentals. This is obviously our responsibility, and obviously also the responsibility of the city and district mayors, or even the mayor's, because there are thousands of municipal dwellings in Budapest, too. What I would like to say is that I think it is an interesting figure, just what we are talking about: there are 105 thousand apartments in Hungary today, of which 21 thousand are still empty, so there is plenty of reserve in the system, which can be rented with renovation. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: How many have you renovated in 11 years? You're kidding. Oh, come on.]] Two: the current proposal [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Hashtag Pity! Shame on you!]] Since it affects both the capital and the districts, it affects only the world heritage area. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] the original 60-70,000 [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You could have also written that Zsolti Bayer!]] only in relation to family and rentals [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: For the sake of your minions!]] the buildings in the place are affected, which is about a few thousand units, including the state and the local government; obviously this will be clearly seen with regard to the proposed amendment. I would like to ask everyone to express sober criticism, helping the residents, helping the people who live in the rentals, and their representatives, in their oath, try to help Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A statement from the opposition: Oh, my God!]]
u2021-05-26-134	Thank you very much. I'll ask Mr. András Tállai, State Secretary, if you'd like to speak now. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] Here you go.
u2021-05-26-135	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill is essentially about allowing tenants to buy municipal rentals [[Antal Csárdi laughs.]] to become owners of the apartment in which they live. This is in line with the government's objectives and the direction of the home creation programme. In the area of home creation, our goal is to ensure that all Hungarian families have a home of their own, preferably. By supporting the acquisition of own-owned housing, we want to promote a longer-term stable and secure housing for families. To this end, we have developed a new home-building programme that does not regenerate the range of insolvent lenders. The program has already helped hundreds of thousands of families to get their own homes, which, from 1 January 2021 onwards, the government has expanded to refer to the preferential flat rate, the possibility for families with children to buy a non-VAT new flat, and the tax exemption, as well as the home renovation programme. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: And to ten million! Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] Which, on a scale and in popularity, will open a new chapter in home-building grants. The provision of the purchase option targeted by the bill is not a precedent and unprecedented. In a relatively short period of time, tenants were able to buy more than six hundred thousand municipal dwellings during the home privatisation in the 1990s. The sale of municipal dwellings to tenants is a ongoing process, and the municipalities have sold seven hundred thousand flats in total so far. The other similar housing purchase scheme was the National Asset Manager, which bought homes from credit institutions for families with foreign currency credit that had become insolvent in difficulty in order to keep the victims in their homes as tenants and not to lose their homes. The program also provided an opportunity for the tenants to buy their apartments back at a reduced rate from the asset manager, with which the majority of the families concerned were able to live. In this case, it was also successful and the housing purchase model open to tenants has been proven in practice. With regard to the independent motion by its representatives, I would like to point out that the government supports, in principle, that people should be homeowners, not tenants. We believe that the bill will be amended accordingly. [[Dániel Z. Karpat and Antal Csárdi intervene.]] a compromise solution for the original objective and balance of interests can be established, Parliament could adopt legislation which would serve at the same time to eliminate the injustices of the previous home purchase programme, thereby ensuring a fair settlement of the legitimate interests of the tenants and not an unsuitable burden on public property. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: It was a long time! That was pretty slippery.]]
u2021-05-26-136	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The keynote speeches will be held. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Böröcz. Here. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Let's hear it! Let's hear it. Mrs. Potochanya Anita Kőrösi intervenes.]] [[17.20]]
u2021-05-26-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hear that Congressman Csárdi is loud in the benches, obviously he will be able to comment on his own speakership, but I would like to ask the question: where was Antal Csárdi when Mayor Márta V. Naszályi of District I wanted to sabotage the tenants living there? Where was Antal Csárdi, and where did he yell the same way he did now, when Mayor Márta V. Naszályi I. wanted to eviscerate the people who lived there and drive away the tenants who lived there? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] You didn't do anything, Congressman, you didn't raise your voice against this. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is this the position of Fidesz? The keynote speaker is about the party's position...]] The same way you've been quiet and didn't do anything about every hair-scraping case in the first district. The entire left, including Jobbik, hinders the housing of Hungarians [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are a traitor!]] as regards this bill, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] You didn't do anything, you just screamed, you want to deny people access to your own apartment. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: And Soros! The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what they do, Congressman, that's what you've done in the last two weeks. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Take a glass of water for the poor.]] As far as the bill is concerned, our aim, of course, remains to ensure that as many Hungarian families and Hungarian tenants as possible have their own apartments, and whether you like it or not, this bill will focus only on the world heritage area, the historic dwellings, but it will be possible for all municipalities to decide whether they want to help their tenants or not. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-138	Thank you. We now have the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here.
u2021-05-26-139	Mr President, Dear House, László Böröcz should be ashamed of yourself. It's an amazing treasonous pace you're making, the last struggle of a false national, false Christian gang before the fall. Notice, my fellow Member, I am sorry for you, so I feel no anger, no anger, I am sorry for you that we have been through this secondary shame here in opposition space, and we have not laughed at you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The primer should have.]] You were supposed to burn to the ground. Instead, we were uncomfortable with the two-to-three-minute slippery sequence of sentences that you gave here, typical of insecure people, which treats others subparlyly, listening to your own opinion. As a pseudo-national movement, as a party, you were preparing to sell out national wealth and throw it away for pennies. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Just hear me out. You have tabled a proposal, my fellow Member, which would have dropped national assets of between HUF 800 and 900 billion, that was your original proposal. The fact that your friends, comrades and comrades didn't stand up for you is an important circumstance, and I'm glad of that, by the way, but you gave your name to playing hundreds of billions of national assets out of national assets at 15-30 percent. You didn't have the courage to name this law lex Bayer, lex Palkovics or lex Rákay Philip, you were cowards. In the beginning, they acquired the right to rent your minions and vassals in the Castle of Buda in strange circumstances, and you know it, and we know it, but this is a question of a legal approach, and I do not want to pass judgment on it. But trying to outrun national assets for pennies before their probable fall is a classified case of treason. You can try to beautify this now, because you can see that even your own people can't identify with it, even though you can only talk about it at Fidesz on the brink of loss. Well, it's not like someone else's opinion gets away with it. Take a look at Secretary of State Ángyán, an excellently prepared specialist, where he is now. Look at the ministers of the first Fidesz government, mostly well-prepared professionals, where they are now! [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Tamás Sneider...]] It doesn't work for you if someone thinks differently about the world and simply talks about it and gets away with it. You, my fellow Member, are now alone in this situation. The masculine solution is one way to imagine: withdraw this historical trash and pray that the court of history will judge you in a way that is compatible with your restful days, because this is treason, please. The fact that the elements of national wealth are now wanted for pennies is now not for all the municipalities, but for the Buda Castle it is classified treason. A national unity government will not leave it this way after 2022, we will not leave this horror like this, because you are stealing Hungarian people, the Hungarian future, eating up the opportunities for their minions from those who, as young and tenants, would not be able to find another option in Hungary than to buy a flat at a reduced price. Let's just drop the whole childish approach that's been made here for so many times. I can really see the spark on my fellow Member Nacha that he understood what we were thinking when we discussed this. They asked the Hungarian people what kind of property they wanted. Of course, everyone wants their own real estate, but you forget about the Hungarian people who are not like you, who are not so lucky that, when they were in high school, the party state reached under their arm and carried them along the road. There are Hungarian people who are not like that, there are people who are trapped in a sublet, have a family, have children's goals, and cannot achieve them because they are unable to obtain independent, affordable housing. How fair, according to my fellow Member Böröcz, is a support system where a ten million-dollar discount can be put in the pocket for Balaton construction? Yet, perhaps we can agree that there is no need for a person who has obtained this discount. And there's the Hungarian youth living in the apartment, who, in the best case, gets a preferential bank loan if the intermediary bank decides it's your support system. I really don't feel sorry for anyone, because I approach it with a demographic-based mindset, I would support every family if there was enough framework for this, but in the case of families that don't need it, you are particularly generous according to a chemically pure neoliberal social concept, and you don't support Hungarians who are trapped in a difficult situation. This is also reflected in this proposal. When my fellow Member Böröcz and Secretary of State Tállai say that as many Hungarians as possible should be assigned to property ownership, we would agree until this stage of the sentence, but the fact is that a lot of people are not as lucky as you are. You cannot do this, and do not force yourself into the minds and lives of Hungarians! Some would like to live in a flat, an affordable rental, a lot of people. What's next? First night's right? Do you want to decide where and under what conditions to live instead of the Hungarian people? Look at the number of newly built properties and look at the number of apartments. Hashtag is a pity you can show in 11 years. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Is my fellow Member Böröcz here to talk about 105,000 apartments? Well, that's your poverty certificate. It gives its name to a government that has been able to narrow down the number of apartments that can be rented in 11 years. [[Lőrinc Nacsa is talking to László Böröcz.]] Well, why didn't you report in your two-to-three-minute speech, which you were confused about how many apartments this government has built? Don't laugh, because it's not that funny. I can see that you're embarrassed, and I'm sorry for that, but we need to discuss this with each other in a serious way. The thing is, this government was supposed to talk about how many apartments it's built in 11 years. You should have said a number of hundreds of thousands, compared to that, they're just throwing away national assets. In terms of newly built real estate, they also present the victory report to us about the number of newly built apartments in Hungary. It comes out with a simple cell phone calculation: if so few homes are built as they are now, the property stock will be replaced every 159 years, fellow Members. What about the panel houses? What about the Hungarians who live in the apartment? What about the residents of the small settlements? You don't think about these people because you're luckier than they are, and you're part of the network, and they're not, so you keep them out of the calculation. There are many young Hungarians, who were previously fellow Members, listen carefully! they were able to acquire independent property by supporting pre-emption for housing purposes by the taxpayers of Hungary. They could call it Fundamenta or anything else, and in several years with a supported form, let's say, they were able to raise their money for a CSOK of themselves by these young Hungarians. What did you do? Together with you, the state aid for housing savings has been abolished, and the chair has been kicked out of those who have had the only option to get a home on their own. And now they're standing here after a total failure in multiple governments, when they've lived up to national wealth, the number of tenements has gone down, and they're trying to beat a lot of this leftover. Then you see the social resistance, the voices of the opposition, the mayors, the civilians, leaving my unfortunate fellow Member Böröcz alone in the wilderness, not standing behind him, retreating back from 90 percent of this plan, and then you come in here to hold a sluggish lead speaker for two or three minutes, and now you're just trying to drum up some of the property under the protection of monuments, but you still don't dare to tell or list the names of the minions for whom you're doing all this. [[17 .30]] Of course, if their researchers had worked well, it would have come to the conclusion that 100 percent wanted to own their own property, because in fact every tenant would dream of getting his own property someday. But the Secretary of State Tállai has one of the slogans of the day that they're doing this madness to prevent the unpayable credentials from being regenerated. If there is a government that has committed treason that has failed these credentials and has actively contributed to their wickedness in order for the masses of people to get into trouble, it is yours! If I have to say just one number, Mr. Secretary, and argue with me, if you can, at the number level, I know it is difficult: more than 18,000 families have been evicted in Hungary under your governments. And they always look down, there was never a time when they stood up, that we didn't evict so many people; no, that was because of the banks, not because of us. They're gonna blow their eyes off because you know they've actively contributed to this horror. And after that, they're trying to bring the national wealth into this place with the phrase that they're trying to prevent the problem from being reclaimed, while you had the joystick in your hands, all the control options were in their hands so that this horror wouldn't regenerate. No one forced you to make a deal with the banks, to sign a EBRD pact, to forint at the market rate, to ruin even the private institution, and to help only a few hundred people. It wasn't an external compulsion, it was your historical crime. What we see is that we should be discussing mass housing. There is an opportunity for you, we have submitted a budget amendment proposal for the. We are waiting for a program with mass rentals, 5-10 thousand apartments per year could be built. These could be built by qualified domestic contractors, so we could spin our own national economy. These people who would work on it, they'd get paid here, they'd spend it here. This would be done with budget money. The magnitude would be roughly the Hungarian part of Budapest-Belgrád madness in two years, or half of their Chinese mega-credit. That's about how much you could turn into a national rental program. Some of the buildings built must be placed in municipal management, I repeat, from budgetary sources, so not burdening the municipalities, and social aspects of the wealth provided to the municipalities could also be enforced. This is where we get to what Parliamentary Secretary Tállai did not understand very well yesterday, when I explained to him, more precisely, that I failed at the level of explanation, that we have to look at how much the rent is built every year, and that half of the annual rent increase can be considered to hand it over to the tenants as property rights under reduced conditions. I didn't say the percentage yesterday, Mr. Secretary Tállai imagined it, and colleagues smiled at us as we looked back at the video, how it could be misunderstood. But let's be clear: with the increase in the rental property every year, half of it is possible to think about how to be owned in a preferential form not for 15 percent and not for 30 percent! In the hands of tenants who, if any, have lived there for 15 years, and are truly good faith, unlike your minions in the Castle. The thing is, you didn't think this concept through, when we're giving it an interpellation, we're trying to argue, you don't read it, flymas, condescending, professionalism is only viewed from a distance as an outside viewer. And the fact is that when you asked your minister, not my fellow Member Nacsa, a minister who deals with home creation, how much the CSOK has raised real estate prices, and the government and the market were prepared for this at all, the answer was that they didn't know. So you touch a market by not doing any tests, not talking to professionals, so that your intervention in this market might double the rent price. My fellow Members, it was you who, despite all our warnings, did not recognize an Uber problem, did not understand what the problem was, even though the rent price doubled, it was clear that Airbnb had also taken out, say, two thousand apartments from the real estate market in Budapest, and then more, and were surprised that the price increase caused by Airbnb had happened on its own. No! This market should have been regulated, not banned, but regulated bravely. You cowardly pushed this responsibility to the municipalities. I think they have a more failing area than housing, and they don't. I know they're going to tell you about the CSOK, and I'm going to tell you that with a ministerial salary, the bank account has a ten million discount and, on average, a reduced bank loan in Hungary's life. This is your world! That's what we're trying to pull you back from, so you can see a little bit of real people's real problems. And don't come up with that Czechoslovak saying that you've noticed that every person wants to own a property, so we're gonna force it on them even if they don't want it, but we're not gonna build rent homes for people who don't have any other option. You have clearly neoliberally renounced complete social classes, do not send messages to young Hungarians living in a difficult line, you have taken away public support for housing savings, you have raised prices in a market that you have not seen fit to understand, and now you want to applaud the remaining national assets. It's quite amazing, Bolshevik-type attic sweeping all of this. In previous eras too, we have seen very, very rarely this type of loss of wealth. It's quite an incredibly shameful, a total surrender of national interests, what they're doing. In this case, they are record students, since they are taking on Eastern megacredits, Chinese megacredit for Budapest-Belgrád madness; Chinese university is being brought here, which Hungarian students cannot afford, but it has now been found that even a simple college facility would cost more than 50 thousand forints to a student; they give the foreigner without reason, they give the Audi non-refundable support, Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are being let down. They betray national interests in a series of ways, and now they're trying to live up to national wealth. Don't be surprised that we won't let this happen, the National Unity Government, which stood up in 2022, will find at least three attackable points of this madness that will cause it to bleed to death at the level of the Constitutional Court. But don't get any sleep, 'cause that's not gonna last. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-26-140	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, can now give his opinion. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát began his speech by saying that he is a very insecure man who spends his time demeaning another, and then he abused us for 10 minutes out of 12 minutes, and my fellow Member Böröcz and, in general, the pro-government representatives. Well, the honourable Member must be very insecure. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Speak for yourselves, not for me.]] But how worthy today is of the 15th anniversary of the autumn speech [[An uproar, applause in the ranks of the opposition. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Lawrence, where were you then?]] Z. Kárpát Dániel an echte Gyurcsányist text [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Were you in the armored car with your boss?]] performed here [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Were you in the armored car? The president's ringing the bell.]] "There was treason in it, there was everything in it that he wanted, he used signs here that we just looked at. Honourable Congressman, The thing is, without blinking your eyes, you started to cancel the left-wing text overnight, while you used to be a national person, a national emotional, right-wing emotional person. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: I said the same thing in 2011!]] In an instant, without any remorse, he apparently began to say the left-wing text. You keep talking about it and you don't dare to say it out loud because you know it would be rude for the government to reach into the rental market by regulating the prices and telling us how much you can rent your apartment for. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I never said that... Jesus!]] He didn't say that, he just always referred to it. [[Antal Csárdi: Problems with understanding the text! The president's ringing the bell.]] You have a communist idea, you have such Bolshevist tricks in your pocket. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You are completely insane!]] what you want to achieve in the Hungarian housing market, that I think this is a rather dangerous thought experiment that you are conducting here every year in Parliament. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You really are insane! They're completely insane.]] You told my fellow Member Böröcz that somehow he said what the consequences of speaking out or criticizing in our political community are the consequences of a Member sitting behind whom you have excluded a dozen independent Members because he had a different opinion about Peter James. So this is the Member whose group started with 26 people in 2018, and now there are 17 of them, because they didn't join the line with Peter James, and they were disqualified, Congressman. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Let's talk about the percentage of yours.]] That's the thing. And you're talking about who talks you out of the party and who doesn't. But we are surprised to see or rather regret that there are more MSZP DK logos on Jobbik's Facebook page in the last year than, let's say, national flags or crosses. But that's your job and your allies, with whom you've joined forces. He says he used these verbs for sale and drumming. That was a sale and that was a beating to the drum, my fellow Members, what the Ferenc Gyurcsánys did. [[An uproar in the ranks of the opposition.]] Do you think it's the beating of national wealth that Hungarians have access to housing? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Alas, alas! Laugh at them.]] To give them to Hungarian people, to buy those municipal apartments, is that a drum beat to you? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Rákay Philip?]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Rákay Philip?]] It wasn't when national utilities were sold to foreign capital (Dániel Z. Karpát: Rákay Philip?) The national strategic sectors? Wasn't that the drumbeat? I understand that you must be protected now, and this is what Peter James gave you to protect Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't joke! Do you get a percentage? Applause from the opposition.]] even today, but the question, my honourable fellow Member, is that you call it a beating, that Hungarian people will get housing with Hungarian help, with the means to legislate Parliament. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, I know your band!]] Do you envy these apartments from Hungarian people and Hungarian families? Is that what this is about, fellow Members? [[17.40]] He was confused, there were contradictions in his speech, honourable Member, and once he said that 100 percent wanted private property for Hungarians, and then he said that there were people who wanted to live in apartments for the rest of their lives. You said you asked me that demagogic and very dramatic question about what would happen to the people in the apartment. Well, we're trying to help them now. What's it gonna be? That's what he asked me about the people in the apartment. The fact is, honourable Member, you told us, Mr Böröcz and I, that during our high school studies, the party state system has reached under our arm, that is what you said to me and to Mr Böröcz. It didn't touch our armpits, but it was a party-state system, that's for sure, because Agnes Vadai was in government position at the time when I was in high school. So the example completely stands, but they didn't reach under our armpits, they let tear gas into our eyes, at the age of 16, we met the congresswoman with tear gas and rubber bullets. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You were still pushing the flapping butterfly!]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, you have attacked this bill in many ways over the last few weeks. [[Anita Kőrösi Potocsány: Rightfully!]] and even the idea that Hungarian people can buy municipal apartments. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Rákay Philip, Bayer Zsolt!]] Why is that? Let's think about why you are impertinently attacking Hungarian people to buy municipal homes! I figured out why. Because you don't want to be good for the Hungarian people, you don't want to be able to buy them, because you think that people are for the municipalities, and not the municipalities are for the people. You're on the opposite horse, and you've been speaking in the interests of the local authorities for the last year against the people. You say that we dare to leave the business tax at the local businesses. You say how dare we let go of the terrace fee, the public domain fee to the hosts. You're saying that we have the courage to help the people who live here. Yes, even if this means loss of revenue for everyone, the state and the municipality. I hope that Congressman Csárdi will answer my fellow Member's question as to how he was able to fully enter that campaign in the first district before the election of the mayor, that he has promised that he will sell it, that he will be able to sell it, and that he will sell this apartment to the people who live there. And I have one more question for Congressman, Mr. VIII. in the district, your great mayor, András Pikó, has been blessed in the quotation mark for the past year and a half. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Hurts, doesn't it? Does it hurt?]] He sold 71 apartments under a hammered hammer, while now he is attacking this law, while he managed to put 36 apartments on the tender. And he said that there were 1100-1500 flats empty, and he's gonna charge them all. At a price of 71, my honourable fellow Member. How about this? And why didn't you raise your voice here? The other question, since we are talking about housing regulations, municipalities, is the question of Ozd. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Na!]] Yeah, there's the better mayor, who owns the spa, who threatens his employees, as we know. My question, Honourable Congressman Z. Carpath, is that you have invited us to evictions many times to go together. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How many times have you come?]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How many times have you come?]] My question, my fellow Member, is that when, in 2015, the better-looking Oz housing decree was found illegal by the Ombudsman, Dialogue and DK, by the way, and the better-looking mayor was attacked, how illegal is the housing decree, which the Ombudsman's investigation said would result in addiction, only to be issued by the better-looking mayor, so that the people living there would be addicted to it, and, by the way, started eviction on all political grounds, were you there at the time? He wasn't there. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: How many times have you come?) Because he closed his eyes when the good mayor's boyfriend started putting the needy people out of their apartments in Oz. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You missed Dunakeszi!]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How many times have you come?]] My question, my honourable fellow Member, is that when, in 2015, the better-looking Oz housing decree was found illegal by the Ombudsman, Dialogue and DK, by the way, and the better-looking mayor was attacked, how illegal is the housing decree, which the Ombudsman's investigation said would result in addiction, only to be issued by the better-looking mayor, so that the people living there would be dependent on him, and, by the way, started eviction on all kinds of political grounds, were you there at the time? He wasn't there. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: How many times have you come?) Because he closed his eyes when the good mayor's friend started putting the needy people out of their apartments in Oz (Dániel Z. Carpathian: You missed Dunakeszi!) Then you thought it was none of your business. And you, who regularly speaks out against evictions, didn't go to Ozd, and didn't tell the mayor's friend that it's too much, you shouldn't do that. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: How many times have you come?) On this basis, you are coming here to talk about housing, when the situation, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have not supported a home creation programme, and you are helping those who have destroyed the entire family home system. You can talk about the house savings here, my honourable fellow Member, but let's look at the interest-supported housing loans, look at the Socpol, the half-socillion, the socialists, the Gyurcsányist politicians have eliminated it! [[Dr. Agnes Vadai and Antal Csárdi applaud. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Well, finally, the Gyurcsány thread, never be forgotten.]] Ágnes Vadai personally voted that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families should not obtain housing. That is the case, my honourable fellow Member, and you are now working with every single breath of your outraged Facebook post to help Agnes Vadai back into government positions and other DK politicians. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] He's working to get that home-building-destructive and anti-family policy back. We sometimes find common points on population policy and demographic issues, but you know very well that in the history of families, there has not been such harmful governance as left-wing governance. And yet you want to help them back, while György Lukács's fellow Member is no longer sure that you will support the voting rights of the cross-border people when they come to government or not, because he couldn't even give a straight answer to that on television. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I don't write the program. How do I know what's in that program that hasn't been announced yet?]] Well, that is the case, because then it will also be a foreign country and the doctors can be taken out by the honourable Member. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be amendments, as my fellow Member Böröcz said. [[Antal Csárdi: Really, really? Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] All sensible criticisms are welcome, but the posture of your place so that Hungarian families do not accidentally acquire apartments and buy their municipal leases is simply outrageous. And the thing is, you know, you can come here with all kinds of names, and the thing is, there are a lot of people in the Castle who had their family, their grandfather's own apartment, just the communists that you're working with, they took it away from him. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: We are not conspiring with you!]] After 1947, he was taken away from her, and in '90 he could rent back his grandfather's apartment, and since then he has lived in it as a tenant, and his grandfather's apartment was graciously allowed to rent it back when it belonged to them. Don't people like you deserve justice? Doesn't your sense of justice go far enough to get the people that the Communists took your apartment from before 1950? Where do we live, fellow Members? Are you saying that the man whose grandfather bought it and worked for it, or that his great-grandparents bought it, and then took it from him, can't buy it again? How do you think they want to push people like that away from buying a place? And you keep talking about, oh, the municipalities, poor people, why they can't have the apartment. Because you want this to be a blackmailing tool, you want to force people into rental programs so that they can't get an independent apartment, they can't get their own property, but you want to force Hungarian young people and Hungarian families into permanent rental programs. While there are 21,000 local government apartments empty, all you have to do is take the time to work and renovate these apartments. [[Anita Kőrösi Potocsány: And you should give money for it!]] and it should be written out, as András Piko does not, as Márta V. Naszályi does, and as many mayors on the left do not. They don't want to work, they don't want to renovate these vacant municipal apartments, which, by the way, if it's empty now, doesn't even apply to the law. So the thing is, ladies and gentlemen, we should take the brush and the drywall and renovate these apartments. [[Antal Csárdi: That's very funny! Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] It should be refurbished, and then put on a proposal for the noble purposes that you're going to list here. They're just lazy 'cause they put up a sign that's beeweeding, 'cause they're lazy, so they're gonna put up a sign that's a beekeeper. This is the Budapest City Council at the moment. These are the district mayors, Your Honour. He doesn't want to go to XI. The district mayor of DK will mow the lawn because Gergely Christmas at the Main Garden took half of the budget for the mowing, so Imre László will, and he will put out a sign that it is a beekeeper in the middle of Bocskai út. You understand how serious this is, do you not, fellow Members? So we need to work, we need to renovate these apartments, and then we can rewrite these applications. What my fellow Member has said is very important that, optionally, every municipality will have the opportunity to sell these apartments. I very much hope that there will be local authorities who think that it is worthwhile to provide housing for the people living there, that they can count on families in the long run to stay in place, that they will increase and enrich the community there, that they will be able to settle there permanently, so that the municipalities can also contribute to enabling Hungarian people and Hungarian families to obtain housing. Because you do not want Hungarian families to get an apartment and talk about beating all kinds of drums. They fear the Hungarian people for the apartments of the Hungarian local government, there is nothing we can do about it, but I think that together with the amendments that my fellow Member has already talked about... [[Antal Csárdi: Have you ever seen a living person? Someone who's alive? Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] We have asked a number of questions, and I will be happy to hear the answer, because I do not know what you can say to your excuse for giving your name to this home-breaking policy, including I and VIII. in the district, but we will also hear from my fellow Members. [[17.50]] I believe that these amendments are necessary, which my fellow Member has listed, but that you are now going against the housing of Hungarian people not for the first time, but for many times, I think it is shameful. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-142	With all due respect, though I can see that after all the time we've spent together, they can still be happy for each other. [[Defiance.]] But argue about the bill, not about each other. So I give the floor to Mr Dezső, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I've been listening to my fellow Member Berecz... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Böröcz!]] Boröcz, I'm sorry, I apologize, yes. So I have listened to the comments of my fellow Member Böröcz. Well, that couldn't have been an easy comment. He was practically talking about exhuming himself. If you think about it, you're telling me the truth. And I think you shouldn't be surprised if you're hearing these sounds, and I'm talking about you with those adjectives. That's what they say when you sow wind, you reap storms. I think that's what I've said so far, if you think deeply of yourself. And then I promise you that I won't hurt you, because in my opinion, you were a tool in this whole story, nothing more. And then you can see how this story ends. [[It's grumpy.]] When I first saw this proposal or amendment of the law, my first thought was how it got here. My constituency is a constituencies with 6,000 municipal tenements. In fact, in my political past, there are eight years when, as deputy mayor, I was responsible for this 6,000 apartments. So I have experience in operating them. When this proposal first came up here, before Parliament, I looked around: is there really such an elemental demand that you want to buy these apartments? There are 6,000 apartments there, XIII. In the district, in my constituency, but there was no such demand. I asked my fellow Members here in Budapest, and they weren't there. In fact, they were able to tell me that there was no such demand that you had come up with. There's no need to buy that 105,000 apartments. Until then, it wasn't even on anyone's first 150 topics that should have been raised, and yet you came up with it. Well, obviously, it's some local interest and you've put it right, it was a local movement, it was a local interest that motivated you. I've been thinking that you've probably been forced to come here as a Member of Parliament with this story and suggest that 100,000 apartments should be sold in a thousand-billion-dollar scale. I'll have one sentence that you might think hurtful, but believe me, it's true: in your case, we've seen the struggle of the local mind in a global story. You didn't win. That's usually the way it is, by the way. Let's look at the bill itself. We are seeing a growing number of laws or legislative amendments on the part of Fidesz that lack any impact assessment. It does not surprise us any more, but I think that this law, an amendment to the law that you have tabled, surpasses everything in this regard. No impact assessment has been carried out in the world, nor has it been thought of the consequences of the proposal for more than 100,000 apartments and more than a thousand billion forints. Then we could listen to a number of opinions while preparing this law. There were quite a few of them, as your party's party partners have put forward in connection with this law. There was a deep professional opinion among them, and I can agree that this is bullshit. And there's a lot of people who put their own opinions in the same way. If you're looking at the basic story, you can guess how it went down. The apartments in Buda, due to their historic character, constitute the city's unfit stock. The unfit means that it can't be sold. And these were the apartments that made you, I suppose, approached by your friends, and that inspired you to make such a suggestion. I thought there was some sort of control in your faction. Now I've seen that there isn't. This amendment of the law was simply allowed here, and if there had been some kind of control there, I'm almost certain that they would have formulated something similar to those of the mayors of their own party. He was trying to solve a local problem with terrifying tools. The device is probably called ein-standing, despite your youth. That's when someone else's property is taken by force. That's what your proposal was about. You can read about it in the boys on Paul Street, and I don't like it when the power gives birth, and I think that's what you've been trying to build on. To me, many people have said that everywhere else this happens, it's a crime, because they want to squander public property at a very low price, without bidding, officially, in the public interest. Well, then it's true if the needs of friends can be of public interest. And I'm telling you, I'm surprised I didn't have the control I would have expected from the Fidesz fraction when this proposal was submitted. I have sensed from your words that there will certainly be a significant step backwards here, that it will be significantly reduced compared to the original proposal. Obviously, this will be limited, if I'm right, to the historic dwellings that have some truth, that so thirty years ago, in the early '90s, the tenants of that time could not buy it, unlike everyone else to whom this right was granted. If we accept this as a kind of truth, then I can inform you that I have tabled an amendment that I think you can use well because that is what it is about. That's as far as I can go, and I can accept it, because it has truth. Everything else is about something else. Please read the amendment. All I can really say is that, in my opinion, it's not bad. The problem with this proposal is that it was simply not taken into account in the legal context in which it was submitted. They did not take into account that the Constitutional Court dealt with this story in 1993 because it was something very similar. A 64/1993. No.3 said that this scheme, which you have just proposed, violates ownership and the principle of local government. There is a literal quote:, Since the exercise of the right of purchase entails the loss of property, the public interest requires compensation. The right of purchase shall be constitutional only if the value guarantee is enforced. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, I guess if you ask the Constitutional Court today, you're gonna say something like that unless you want to, say, make a tomport out of your own mouth. [[Defiance.]] But I think if they said something like that, they'd be holding that opinion right now. That which you have proposed is unenforceable. I'm gonna say it as someone who's been running municipal housing for years. You wanted to give me six months for my constituency to provide 6,000 of these apartments to the residents. It's unenforceable, not with so many people who are now working for a municipality, but with a lot more people than that. [[18.00]] But I really hope that what we're going to see will not be about that, but that's what we can argue about now, because that's what you submitted. In my opinion, your original proposal is unsuitable. And if you'll excuse me, because I have some time left, I'd like to respond to some of the questions that were raised in the debate. It has been said that there are 21,000 apartments in the municipality that are empty. I'm guessing it's not true. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Probable...]] My fellow Member Nacsa, you have suggested why these are empty and why they are not renovated. Because the money we gained from this European Union was not spent on this. Those funds should have been in the municipalities so that they could do this, modernise and renovate them. They couldn't do it because where's the money? [[Lőrinc Nacsa: In Budapest?]] He's not in Budapest. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] You have it! You have it, and it has been used to modernise state institutions. That's the truth, so we shouldn't talk about it here, because it's falling back on their heads. The other issue, in which we probably do not understand each other: you, when it comes to housing, see nothing but property. But why? Housing can not only be created in the form of property, and I think that if we can win in 2022, then we need to build thousands of apartments, apartments built by the state, instead of new stadiums. With the price of stadiums, more than 10,000 apartments could have been built. And if you think about the situation of a young person who wants to start a family, it's not the first thought of me taking 40 million forints, I should be indebted to myself, and then I can move into a house that I'll never be able to practically sell and place there. This can also be a solution, since there are young people who want to do this, but they do not have to force everyone into it. It does not serve to mention social mobility together with property and housing in this way. The person who built such a house in one of the settlements will not move from there, so that if there is no job there, and he should drive 100-150 kilometers, while if there were tenements, he could do so. And I think that our programme, my good fellow Member, has already mentioned to us that building these apartments with public money in municipal areas, I repeat, thousands, and then handing them over to the municipalities for operation. This is a program, and I think that young people will also be buying it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Have you thought about what you're doing with this huge wave of ownership that you've launched? Surely you can answer me how many of the marriages that have been concluded today in Hungary, because this is a condition of how many divorces end. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] It's almost half, isn't it? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Less... Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Yes, you can!]] More than half, yes. Can you tell me what's going to happen with these buildings that have been built from the CSOK? And this will happen more than half of them, and there will be an unmanageable situation, both in the case of the remaining, say, mother and children, and in the case of the leaving father. They didn't connect the families, they're gonna beat up these families. And I would ask you to understand that this is not just the only thing that exists in terms of housing, that we have to buy property with someone who doesn't have anything, and doesn't even have such a will or a desire, but that building a rental can be a real and supportive solution in the coming period, and we will have this programme. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-26-144	Thank you very much. Now we have to listen to Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, the lead speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When I came to Parliament to discuss this bill, I thought that László Böröcz's I. district candidate campaign opening law, lex Bayer, was going to be a very interesting debate. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] We're used to the Gyurcsány thread in the background. [[Nacsa Lőrinc pointed forward: Not in the background! Front!]] We understand, so we know that you define everything compared to him and to us, and to yourself, and I think you should try to act like a Christian Democrat sometime. Let's just say they might learn from us, DK. So I would suggest that you study our charter, look at the political events of the past period. You will discover that genuine Christian democrats may not be seen in respect of your tiny, unobserved party. And then I had to experience that everything, really everything, would turn up. I know, of course, that Congressman Nacha is younger than I am. Obviously, when I started my political career, he was pushing the snappy butterfly himself. There's got to be a butterfly somewhere in those benches right now. The quality you have presented is likely to be characterised by this, because the Member has not said any substantive points of debate about this bill. You've been throwing around all kinds of statistics that are obviously a little older and more experienced than you, such as Mr. Reliable, can basically disprove, as he himself has dealt with this area... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He couldn't disprove...]] But you could deny it, Congressman, but you didn't listen carefully enough. [[Nacsa Lawrence: He said that he probably...]] I also believe that this would be an important Christian Democratic virtue to sometimes listen to those who are more experienced and have been young for a long time. The point is that we could see that there might be some change this morning, although we have not seen this amendment until this moment. It may have been filed in the meantime, because this has happened before in the law. [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] But this morning, the press reported that they wouldn't completely embezzle the municipal assets. And don't be mad at me for using words like that on you as a thief. Tolstoy may have said that to offend only a decent man, to tell the thief that he is a thief, the finding. For the past 11 years, you have complied with all such findings. All the laws that have been put forward here have been all about trying to get national wealth out to their own friends, friends, or just themselves. [[László Böröcz and Lőrinc Nacsa intervene.]] The bill, which is obviously not even granite-solid, also contradicts its Fundamental Law written on gutters, and does not stand the test of constitutionality in any way other than that it is unconstitutional, obviously not in the public interest. The mayors of the Democratic Coalition have already protested against this bill, and have written letters to their colleagues, their pro-government colleagues. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: As against Chinese vaccine...]] And the truth is, if that didn't convince them, even though I think you should have convinced them, they themselves realized that there was something wrong with this proposal. It is no coincidence that the mayor of Székesfehérvár, the mayor of Győr, is the 16th. Mayor of the District, Péter Kovács, who, as has already been mentioned, literally said that your bill is a crap, XXII. Vice Mayor of the District, mayor of Várpalota Fideszes, mayor of Balassagyarmat Fideszes, and even the mayor of Debrecen Fideszes said that this bill is not acceptable in this form. I would add that the version you call lighty, which Congressman Böröcz has said here, that perhaps this will be, is not acceptable, because small theft is also stealing, and small embezzlement is embezzlement. And Congressman Böröcz came with it, and Congressman Nacsa talked about this, that the masses of people will finally have access to housing here, and that was basically the concept of the whole bill, its basic idea. No, my fellow Members, this is how you would like to legalize Zsolt Bayer, Minister Palkovics, and Tibor Rákay Philip and Tibor Kuna, and who else knows which of your friends are getting their apartment in the Castle. Allow me to recall that it was the 24.hu who found out that your fine-spoken and gracious party member Zsolt B., the owner of the 5th party book, had successfully acquired two municipal apartments in the Buda Castle, by changing a piliszentkereszti tree house twice on paper. So you did it twice very nicely. The rent and the two properties were approximately 30 thousand forints, perhaps one was 30 thousand forints, and the other was 32 thousand forints. Then, when this paper asked me how do you feel about this kind of exchange, that this would be a problematic transaction, after all... and I do not want to risk, for Mr. Vice President, a punishment, a quote. [[18.10]] Literally your party member, Zsolt B., once again, with a nice voice and a good spirit, said to the journalist, who asked him not to think that this was a problem. Now, you want to legalize the acquisition of real estate for people of this type and the like, Congressman. Those who, it's one thing how dirty their mouths are and how they talk to people, but apparently, and the journalists found out, didn't get this municipal lease in a fair way. You're right about that, and I don't think anyone here is arguing that there are municipal tenements where access to property might, to say the least, be fair. But don't you think, Congressman, that I don't like to call you brave because you're just a button pusher, and you don't need the courage, so all you need is servitude, so, in addition to your 133 servitude suggestions, would it have been worth asking the local governments? My fellow Members have missed impact assessments. We know why individual representatives submit all of these as motions. In order not to have to do any impact assessment to avoid consulting the municipalities. If someone is looking at what the law is like in its current form and not talking about what it might be like to change it, because we have not seen this amendment yet, Mr President, I would like to say to you that there are municipalities such as the VII. in the case of district, where the loss of municipal property is HUF 67 billion on your current proposal. Do you understand? ! 67 billion forints! Why is the public interest... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: People's wealth grows by that.]] It will not be the wealth of the people, and you, Congressman, know it very well, because Hungarians do not have 67 billion forints of wealth. These properties, if this bill stays this way and I say it again, we have not seen any amendments at the moment, which would resolve this in a different way, will fall into the hands of people we call the home mafia in Hungarian terms. You do not want to promote people's access to housing, but, on the one hand, you obviously want to squander municipal property while, of course, you want to give it to your own friends and friends, and on the other hand, you obviously want to take this wealth into the hands of villains. Many here have said that Congressman Böröcz may have chosen him for this bill by accident. I think there are at least two reasons why this does not stand up to Mr Böröcz. I don't think it's a coincidence that you filed this bill. On the one hand, as I indicated, obviously its fundamental goal is to launch the I. district campaign and, at the same time, help your friends, friends, and fellow parties to get real estate there. On the other hand, fellow Members, allow me to recall that earlier, Mr Böröcz was not a great friend of District I, but a great friend of District V. From 2010 to 18, you were elected as a municipal representative, and then as a deputy mayor, I'm not saying you served, because that's an exaggeration, so you've been elected as a municipal representative there. When were those certain, rather dubious real estate sales in District V? When, Congressman? When you were a Member there, and you were probably a very good student of Minister Rogán, who worked there at the time. I would just like to say that no one thinks that it is a coincidence that Mr Böröcz is the author of this, and there are quite a number of factors that indicate that you have not been chosen for this purpose by accident. Then, of course, it may be true that if you have to back down on this, not because you would listen to the representatives or mayors of the Democratic Coalition or opposition representatives, but because even your mayors say that this is an infinite nonsense, as you have tabled a bill. As I have said, the bill tabled by the Member gives a new opportunity for the home mafia, and you are aware of that, and obviously the law firms that, if the bill remains so, will obviously take the necessary steps to obtain these apartments by appropriate legal means. It is quite obvious that this bill will kill the municipal housing system. There will not be a local government that would build rentals at its own expense, or even by using European Union funds. He is a gullible congressman, who is the XIII. Representative of the District, has just spoken about the fact that the XIII. district didn't build an apartment at its own expense. There's a hundred-bedroom passive house on XIII. in the district, which was built from a municipal source. Do you think that if this bill passes, then from now on, the municipalities will build such apartments? They're not gonna build that because you don't know when they're gonna make a law next time. I note that if the property is now treated in this way, the sacrament of property is done in this way, I fear that the next step will be to invent it, or to pass the law that the tenant in the private apartment can buy the lease he resides in, because, let's say, István Tiborcz has such rentals. Next thing you know, whoever you don't like will be able to sell your house. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You did that!]] Your apartment at your rate. Here's what I would like to say to you, because Congressman Nacsa has very much communisted me here, perhaps even a little fascist, although I'm not sure, but he must have been a communist, and I would like to say that we do not make a coalition with the Communists, because we never make a coalition with you, I would like to say. [[Noise.]] I would like to make it clear that there is no such idea for opposition parties to cooperate with Fidesz in any way. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Neither do we.]] That's right, so with communists in no way. So, in essence, with this proposal, you are making it impossible to build municipal rentals and, in fact, punishing municipalities that have invested little money in building such rentals in recent years. By the way, as far as I know, the second most of these apartments are located in Győr, which is a city with a fidesz leadership. Luckily, or I don't know if I have the guts to say this, because this might be bad for the Fidesz mayor of Győr, but there are still some people in Fidesz who have left their senses, and the power hasn't completely fooled him. It is quite obvious that the consequence of this bill is that access to housing for those who are young or in difficulty will simply be zero. It's going to be zero! So you don't think about how the local government sector has helped people between market rental and homelessness. Imagine the situation, there's a big storm, someone's house gets struck by lightning, becomes uninhabitable, because it burns down, where does that man go? It was the municipalities who helped, or the people in a difficult crisis who lost their properties, who helped. If you now push through the bill with force, then the result will be that these people, along with their children, will be on the street. I would suggest to the pro-government representatives that, if you want to take action on housing, for example, support and then bring the Dobrev thread. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Gyurcsány.]] One of Klára Dobrev's cases, such as the panel renovation, is because they don't like to spend on it, because for some reason they don't like it. Apparently, they like the Castle, where Zsolt Bayer and Minister Palkovics live, and Rákay Philip, so they like it, and they like real estate, but for some reason, the development of real estate that affects ordinary people is not much liked. Finally, I would like to say to you, fellow Members, that in recent years you have saved a significant part of the state's wealth to your own. That's probably what they're trying to do right now. I am quite certain that the new government, which will set up after 2022, will consider these contracts null and void. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Is this the rule of law, or isn't it?]] It will restore the original state and return these properties to the municipalities for farming. I sincerely hope that the first will be the two fraudulently acquired properties of your generous and well-spoken Zsolt Bayer. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-146	Thank you very much. Congressman Antal Csárdi, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-147	Thank you very much. I'm not going to praise this bill either, because it's stupid, unthinkable, damaging, yeah, and populist. [[18.20]] Because why did Congressman Böröcz submit this proposal? Because he wants to run for election 22 in this constituency, because let's be honest, he hasn't had such thoughts before or before. True, Tamás Nagy, former mayor, would have thrown his hair off if I had the right cartoon picture. What are we talking about? We are talking about the fact that the Member has not spent a second thinking about the consequences of such a bill, what this bill means. Because, of course, I can ask ten million Hungarians how you want to receive 20-30 as a gift, taking into account the property prices of the castle, 80-100 million forints as a gift. Believe me, Congressman, all the answers will be yes, I would like to have them. Technically, that's your knowledge. Yeah, that's your knowledge, because they're not looking at the consequences in the process. There is an amendment waved, whether I believe it or not, because the legislative machine of the Fidesz-KDNP now works so that if I want to know what law the Hungarian Parliament wants to negotiate, what amendments the alliance of Hungarian governing parties intends to submit, I will not go up to Parliament.hu, I will not look at my emails, I will open Facebook. Well, congratulations, fellow Member. The thing is, it's so stupid what you wrote in this bill. Although you have said that you have received more suggestions from the mayor's colleagues, I would like to quote just one, but not to say that I am dishonest, I would like to quote the opinion of a fidesz mayor, which is short, concise, well understood. This is what Péter Kovács wrote when faced with your proposal. But let us look at the consequences of this proposal in this country. On the one hand, there will be few who will benefit from it, I admit that. There will be few who will benefit from it, but we can also see it exactly, and it really doesn't take much, it doesn't take weeks to grind on it, if you take the trouble, Congressman, to think about it for five minutes, and you have a minimum basic knowledge of these types of stories in Hungary, then you will find that the home mafia will appear in such a case almost without exception. So it happened in Miskolc, and I printed out a long list of where the home mafia appeared in these cases. The loan will appear, and the tax collectors of poverty will appear. The story will be that our countrymen who live in social housing, not in the market, not in terms of costs, live in social housing, which they often cannot pay their rent for, the 12,000 forints they will want to buy. Basically, they're gonna have a nonexistent fortune that these mobsters are gonna start on. That's when they go to the needy family, we're in the middle of the economic crisis, so there's no lifeless example of how much your apartment is worth, which, I know, can now be bought for 10-20 percent. And he's gonna tell me what I know, 20 million forints. It can buy 20 million forints in between 3-5 million forints, this is a poorer neighborhood, so it will say that here it is 1 million forints plus, buy the apartment. Thus, this mob network will obtain the ownership of this apartment for virtually minimal money. The result will be that after a while the family will be evicted, the family will be on the street, and there will be no help, since by destroying the rental system the circle will be closed and, for example, it will not be able to turn to the municipality to help with its housing. The other consequence, and here we are talking about the apartments in the castle, I think it is your biggest shame in this bill to open up the sale, to spend 10-20 percent of these properties, and I would like to point out that there is no guarantee in the bill that there will be no abuse. So what will happen? In fact, within a few months or a few years, less of all the property in the Castle will be in the hands of Fidesz buddies and the majority of it will be in the hands of foreign investors. Yes, because today few people in Hungary can afford to buy a flat worth HUF 100 million in bulk. Believe me, Congressman, as strange as it may sound, you may buy the ten million or 12 million forints that you currently live in, the municipal tenement you live in, if your market value is 100-110 million forints, you will make it money, because you can help your children and grandchildren to establish their access to the apartment. This is the end of it. Mr President, if you had meant this bill with good intentions and a pure heart for one second, you would have looked at two things in every way. One thing is that there are guarantees against abuse. The other is that we should have looked into the social changes that will be made as a result of this bill, the social impact that this bill will have. Because the fact is, because of its complexity, these effects could be classified at length. My fellow Member does not seem to have a faint purple arrival on the number of tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary today. It's not property, because it's so far from her reality that you can't even imagine. Of course, I understand, as my fellow Member of Vada said, you came from downtown to the Parliament, where it was practically everyday practice to play out the property that we had at our disposal under the price of our friends. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] A million and two such examples could be set, and it is enough for me to say that Peter Juhász, he has dealt with this issue quite a lot. I think there's nothing to be surprised about from here on out. It could have been done fairly, only then should it have been said that, honourable Parliament, I suggest that our fellow countrymen, who have been unfairly left out of the '93 home-privatisation, can buy their apartments. At this moment, this bill is in order. But that's not what you said. You said that all municipal tenements, regardless of whether they are rented on a social basis, regardless of whether the rent is calculated on a cost-based basis or on a market basis, must be sold to the municipality. You, and I am talking about the entire party family, so that my fellow Member Nacsa does not feel excluded, Fidesz and KDNP are so far from respect for property that they have never seen before. [[18.30]] True, I do not think that you are a conservative party, as some of my fellow Members have already said, you are the Nationalist. [[Nacsa Lőrinc, presenting a document: Is this nationalization?]] I'm gonna put my hands on it, and they're gonna believe in a practice that works on a basis. After all, if you had examined your constitutionality for a moment, because, let's say, you wanted to submit a good bill, you probably wouldn't have transferred literal details from the house law of 93 which the Constitutional Court found to be unconstitutional. But you didn't care. And really, we're a peasant hound away from getting us a law, where we, individuals, you or me, are obliged to sell my own apartment for 10 to 20 percent of what you think is a beneficiary. So the thing is, you're hitting nettles with someone else's thing. That's the thing. This is the case, fellow Members, because of the volume of apartments or real estate, such as Budapest's capital IX. Your district has been renovated, maintained, renewed since the change of regime, and you have done everything you can to renew the district through the social city rehabilitation program, and you have done nothing but do nothing! Because when the Fidesz-KDNP came into power in 2010, you yanked out both the capital and the state part of this social city rehabilitation application leg with a feather stroke. EU applications ran out in 2010, but we can practically see that no proposals have been submitted in the last cycle of legislation and in the previous one that would have been able to provide funding to municipalities to carry out similar urban rehabilitation tasks. The result of this, however, is that the quality and value of the housing stock in Central Ferencváros today is light years away from it, as at the time of the change of regime. But you all don't have any of that. You, my fellow Members, want to do nothing more than get my friends, Zsolt Bayer, a fortune. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] 'Cause if you guys had brought in the law that would've given the owners who were missing out in the '93 home-privatization period to own it, it would've been wonderful, even for free. So if the congressman had introduced a law that tenants whose rights were lost through a straight line nationalization and they got it back free of charge, I think this House would have voted for a hundred percent. But you didn't do that, but Zsolt Bayer, according to your own statement, is trying to lease your dubious, legally questionable lease at 10%, 20%, and if some of you still benefit from it, it doesn't matter to you. But that's not the point! Dear fellow Member, I could talk a long time about how you violated the legislative process with this law. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I could talk a long time about the consequences of a falling housing system and how the rental system will fall apart and why young people's access to housing is not guaranteed in your system and what they can be, by the way, the temporary housing form that is needed. But I think that I am at the end of my speaking time, so thank you very much for the floor. I'm gonna stay here and argue. I really hope you have the courage to not just argue with me in the closet. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-148	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The first independent Member to come forward and present in writing, in which case a Member may take the floor. Varga-Damm Andrea, please.
u2021-05-26-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Böröcz! Just do me a favor and stay here for a minute or two, okay? Because I'd like to speak to you. I won't speak maliciously, I promise. So, honourable House, honourable Members, I wouldn't mind if Mr.Lárinc Nacsa didn't go out, because he has... [[To the intervention of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Yeah, I'll wait, there'll be time for my speech. So, Congressman Böröcz, this proposal does not relate to you at all, it is clear from your presentation. I know that you didn't write this, and you didn't even give me the idea, because you told me the purpose of the legislation completely different from what it contains in writing. What you have said here is that anyone in the opposition would not want Hungarian people to acquire property, and that would be the reason that you are presenting this proposal, this is not in any way correlated with each other. [[Lőrinc Nacsa is returning to the Chamber.]] Because there is not one member of the opposition who does not want as many Hungarians as possible to own it. Well, who is the congressman who wouldn't want as many people as possible to own the sure thing that creates the permanent environment for him, that the key to that house, that apartment that he can return to every day, to raise his children and live with his loved ones is in his hands! How can you say that anyone would think that? ! What you need to understand to my fellow Member Böröcz is that at the time when the law allowed public housing to be privatized, these apartments were state property. State! The State had the right to legislate that a certain part of the rentals could be bought by the tenants at a certain price over a certain period of time. Yes, but as soon as this law was passed and the privatisation process started, in parallel, if you want to look at the property of any former public tenant, what do you see? That they became municipal property. And after these properties have become municipal property, not state property, according to the provisions of the Fundamental Law, Parliament cannot make a law on the obligation of the municipality to sell its property to anyone. I quote these articles of the Fundamental Law. Article 31 says that the local government is the practitioner of the local government in Hungary. Article 32 (1) (e) states that the municipality exercises its ownership rights in respect of its ownership. Article 33 (1) states that only the tasks of the local government can be defined by law, and the body of representatives shall exercise each of the tasks of the municipality, and each decision may be taken by it. Article 34 states that the municipality is the sole authority, but there may be restrictions on the tasks of the municipality, but these restrictions should not entail any withdrawal of powers. So the point, my fellow Member Böröcz, is that this proposal could not have been made under the Fundamental Law, because even the Parliament is not in a position to deprive the municipalities of their right to dispose of their own ownership. The other issue is that we know that both the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court are no longer so sensitive to constitutionality in Hungary, and the Speaker signs the most anti-legal proposals or laws in general, and the Constitutional Court finds no error in them. So I have no illusion that this, let's say, would not be shared by the President of the Republic or the Constitutional Court, but this is still the case. So there is a problem with the basis of this proposal: a law is a law about the property of another person, of a community, which we are not entitled to dispose of, cannot assign to an obligation to sell, nor can it create this right to buy. [[18.40]] We all know that this bill is about the acquisition of ownership of Zsolt Bayer and his associates for their rentals. The other question is, I'll tell you, I can't imagine why someone wants to live in the Castle. I'm serious. What's more about living in the Castle? They look nicer, the sun shines brighter, someone will think they're someone, maybe even take a walking stick in their hands as they walk down the streets of the Castle, maybe they'll even organize horses to even create old traditional relations, or maybe they'll introduce the coach and horse carriage system in the Castle? Or, I don't know, I can imagine something like this, that someone who wasn't born in the Castle never lived there, his whole personality culture is a complete stranger from the Million of the Castle, and suddenly he feels like he has to live in the Castle. Well, it won't make you any more, my friend, living there. Well, you're more than just where you live. You're more than just what kind of person you are. Right? I don't understand. We want to move to the Castle. It's gonna be real soon that the one who doesn't live in the Castle matters, seriously! By the way, the traditional families who lived in the Castle for a long time were specifically struck in the face by what had become such a big fantasy about moving there. We know that this whole proposal is about them. What my fellow Member, Antal Csárdi, said earlier, and I am speaking to my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, to the Christian Democrat - you know what you should have said to us? You were supposed to say you're sorry about those families. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what I said.]] Wait! Who may have owned the house they now live in and didn't return it to them at the time of privatisation. By the way, they didn't give back to anyone but the Zwack family and one or two others, the favored ones. Why don't you say you're sorry for them? Because that's not what you said. But, my fellow Member, if you bring to this House the people who have been tenants in these apartments, let alone buy it, we give it to them, you understand? Because they deserve it. Because the privatization law of 93 was discrimination at the level of who lived where they could buy the apartment depending on where they lived. The man who lived in the panel lived in the suburb, or lived in a broken-down apartment building on the big boulevard, could buy it, and the man who was born in the castle, whose own family might own the house he lives in, and was discriminated against. 1993! How many years has it been? 28 years. After 28 years, would anyone think of that? No, I didn't. These aren't the families you care about. It's the new tenants you care about. And how did they get caught? They found out that it says that he was a tenant on 31 December 2020. That's how he got caught. Do you know what you should have written in here if your goals were well-founded? That those who were tenants in 93 or whose ancestors were already tenants in 93 are talking to them. And by the way, it could apply to the whole country, because all the mayors who protested weren't protesting about the old tenants and the old tenants. No. There's a lot of new-investment local government apartments, houses. I've seen it online, and they've put up a lot of pictures of it, that there's a lot of really modern houses built by the local authorities to give people rent apartments. Well, there's such a huge loss of wealth there. Think about what these buildings cost billions, these 30-40 apartment buildings, for which they would be obliged to give a fraction to tenants who have been tenants for, say, two years or tenants for a year, or not even tenants for six months, because not even six months since December 31st! Think about it, my fellow Member Böröcz and my colleague Lőrinc Nacsa. They can't protect the indefensible! And most importantly, the Parliament cannot have such a form over the property of the local government. You can't create a law on other people's property. You can't make me! I know that anything can be done in Hungary, but according to the law and the constitution, it cannot be created. By the way, I have to say, if this goes on like this, tomorrow they're gonna pass the law on, say, IX. district Liliom street owners are all obliged to sell their property. Well, that too tomorrow, because private owners can't have laws to lose their ownership. From this point of view, the ownership position is equal, the municipal, private property, public property. According to the sanctity of property, no one else can own anyone's property. Is that right? So it will be tomorrow. And where will this end? Where will this end? I ask you, fellow Members, not to provoke society. Nobody wants people to have private property, because in Hungary, as Congressman Böröcz rightly said, 86 percent live in their own ownership. You know why? Because the root of the Hungarian has been the foundation of life since we entered the Carpathian Basin, the beating of the root, and its stable existence in the ground. Do you understand? Stability. Stability is the foundation of the life of Hungarian society, and it will carry on this value, I don't know how long it has been. Don't be surprised. But just because we want Hungarian people to own property doesn't mean I'm gonna squander the municipality's assets! Why don't you like giving away your own fortune? Why doesn't Fidesz tell you to give away the entire Fidesz group's wealth so that the Hungarian people have their own property? For example, Lőrinc Mészáros could start building houses for people and giving them to property. You said we don't want people to own private property? Yes, you can. Well, the Losó's money is a safe bet. And Garanchi's and Tiborcz's. They have thousands of billions in their possession. If they're very giving, why don't they do it? Right? Now, that's when you're gonna get the hang of it. I hope that this proposal will not remain at the House in this form. I hope so. Fidesz mayors should not be put in a position where poor people have to explain themselves and they cannot protect local governments from their assets. Please don't do this. Because the fact that the opposition authorities are being ignored and practically stripped of their resources is being deprived, and I don't understand it, but I can see it. But at least don't put the Fidesz guys in this position. I would very much ask my fellow Member Böröcz to ensure that this proposal is removed from the Parliament's agenda in this form as soon as possible. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-05-26-150	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have completed the round, which is considered to be the keynote speaker or keynote speaker. Mr László Böröcz may now have the floor as rapporteur, which is, of course, not a national closing, but as you have applied as rapporteur, you can now speak. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-151	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, A lot has been said here. I'm trying to react to a few things because I think there's been some misunderstanding. I understand that, after all, Mr Z. Kárpát has turned from a former far-right identity expert to an extreme left-wing real estate expert, and this is obviously the end of a developmental process, if you will, but we have mixed a lot here. I don't even want to deal with the, I add, malicious, even petty comments and ratings that have been said, I'd like to respond to a few things. Indeed, he was a gullible Member who had thoughts that could be justified. If we are talking about the original bill, then it was really necessary to consider from the very first moment that the apartments or houses that were not given by the state to the municipalities, but to build or buy them themselves, were indeed not in a very fortunate way included in the bill. And obviously there have been a number of amendments that have been formulated either by mayors or others, which in some respects improve this bill. But I would like to emphasise once again that, hearing and listening to the mayors, or to several Members of Parliament, and I support this decision with the faction, we have decided that this bill would be amended in this form, since it will apply only to historic dwellings in the world heritage area, as far as the mandatory nature is concerned. [[18.50]] All other maximums would remain optionally in the bill according to the local authorities' own decision. The purpose of this bill was from the beginning, and I will not back down for a minute to give as many Hungarian people and as many Hungarian families as possible housing. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] Of course, I understand the DK representatives here, yelling out loud and saying theirs, and supporting Klára Dobrev's program. Of course, Klára Dobrev bought his property at a discount in 95. Klára Dobrev and Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] their own villa, which was bought at a discount, was renovated by a company, and the VAT was reclaimed. That's one way of saying it, Congresswoman, but you forgot to say it. It is also possible that many politicians, relatives and families of representatives bought these properties at a discount price of 15% and 10 percent in the '90s. And now you regret having such a reduced purchase price, who otherwise would not have the opportunity to buy your apartments. That's what you've done now. And I believe that you do not support the purchase of your apartments by the tenants. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, come on!]] Congressman Z. Kárpat said two years ago that he could buy it. You can't buy it now. Things are changing. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Listen, do you really not understand? You said the same thing you just said, you're on the far right, now you're on the left!]] Then Congressman Z. Karpat has no idea about many things in terms of rental apartments. Obviously, there is a difference between fixed and indefinite tenements. In the case of fixed-term rentals, there are indeed aspects that make the sale of these types of dwellings a consideration in municipal housing management or not. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Have you become progressive in consideration?]] However, this is not the case with permanent municipal tenements. Indeterminate tenements are inhabited by people who are practically... Effectively, if we simplify the matter, the municipality's actual provision over the property until a family dies out of it. Thus, even logically, it makes much more sense to sell these apartments to the tenants at a reduced price, taking into account the rental time spent. Of course, you've said seven or six things here in this debate, but nothing at all. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We were just beginning to feel sorry for you!]] They didn't say anything that was basically about people. Each of your sentences was about what was right for you politically. That's what you did. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Zsolt Bayer, Philip Rákay, Minister of Palkovics!]] With regard to the apartments in the castle, Mr Csárdi will stand up and say that he supports the sale of real estate with a 15% discount or not, please feel free to say so. Congressman, you can spend a lot of time here with Péter Juhász, which may have some adverse effects on health, but we hope [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It's so embarrassing! It's so embarrassing.]] That won't be much. But he said all kinds of things here in big circles, "Oh, my God, what's gonna happen here?" On the one hand, it is part of the proposal, and then we should stay in the world heritage area at monument homes, obviously the legislative amendment proposal now includes the need to be free of public debt, tax debt, rent debt, who buys it. I'm sure you can tighten that up. So, in practice, from this point of view, I believe that what I have said can be improved by improvements in this bill. If you narrow it down to the World Heritage Area, you can also create special rules, as this is a special area. For example, it is interesting that the amendment that we are going to submit would link the possibility of buying to a five-year limit; otherwise, Zsolt Bayer and Philip Rákay would not be able to make use of this option at the moment, but otherwise, the friends of Csárdi I. district I. would be able to make use of this option at the moment, but the deputy mayor, Mayor Márta V. Naszályi, mayor, senior advisor Ágnes Vámos [[Antal Csárdi: Márta V. Naszályi does not live in the Castle! You're being uninformed again.]] So there are many among your friends, your allies involved in this matter. [[Antal Csárdi: Márta V. Naszályi does not live in the Castle! You're indiscreet! The president's ringing the bell.]] . But we are talking about 1,100 people, we are talking about 1,100 people in the first district, and if we look at the entire world heritage area, then obviously there are more people living in state monuments, so we're talking about thousands of families, and you're attacking it so that they can get a place to live. In return, they start praising who a dozen people are, by the way, who have some kind of political attachment, and interestingly, they always forget to mention their own friends in this story. That's not fair, Congressman. If you have asked us to argue here, Congressman, answer the question: what have you done so far for the people of District I or for the people of District V or Section IX? for people living in the district, or for those living in the 8th district. For the people in the district? When did you stand up to the attacks on them? When did you stand next to the tenants in the castle when Márta V. Naszályi practically campaigned in a false way and promised to sell the properties and then suddenly changed her mind? No way! I'm just going to keep it quietly that, by the way, it fits in well with your policy, of course, that you are selling the local estates to the tenant you want; such as the XIXth. in the district or in Szeged, hundreds of them have been sold in recent years. Or Piko, who's been selling 72 pieces for the past year and a half. Of course, you can choose, but a proposal that doesn't distinguish between people and that doesn't suit you, that's the difference. You want to determine when, on what condition, who can buy it, as they have done so far. That's the thing. The other one is my favourite: private rentals raised by Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, and perhaps some here. The wonderful institution called the housing agency is introduced by your allies and by you in the first place in Budapest, which is about whether private, vacant properties will be organized and rented by the municipality. Yeah, and then in parentheses there's the other one, "Yeah," because empty apartments should be taxed so they don't stand empty, there should be property taxes, there should be property taxes. You all forget to mention this part. And we will slowly return to the old Council system in which they would like to live, so that the President of the Council and you will tell us how, when, how you can live your life in Hungary. That's what we don't want. Thank you very much. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2021-05-26-152	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Two-minute lap, first Nacsa Lőrinc, and now I announce that after that, Congressman Z. Carpath.
u2021-05-26-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would say to Mr Commissioner that the inclusion of the CSOK does not require marriage, misunderstood or not know the conditions for one of the main elements of our home creation programme. I mean, Congresswoman Vadai said that Dezső Foolish denied me because she said that there probably aren't 21,000 empty homes. That was his rebuttal that he didn't think there were 21,000 apartments. Well, these are solid arguments, my honourable fellow Member. I do not agree, my honourable fellow Member, that the left-wing home creation programme should be to abolish the CSOK because people are getting divorced. [[I didn't tell them to delete it!]] How do you think that every year the number of divorces is decreasing, the number of annual divorces has decreased by 40 percent compared to 2010. The fact is, my honourable fellow Member, that... [[Impressive Dezső: No, it's not true!]] It's true! Trust should be placed in families and marriages, help and support for families and marriages. And speaking of the social housing: After Mátyás Rákosi came to power, the villa was nationalized, and Antal Apró, a member of the team, could move into the building taken from former Jewish owners. Tiny Piroska and daughter, Klára Dobrev with 159 square meters and now pay attention to the social housing so called the Little Fork then, to receive Dobrev Klára and his family bought the II. district council. They had to put only 10 percent of the purchase price on the table. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: So this is what you're going to do, isn't it?]] I would like to help them to power, Mr Z. Carpathian, with all their might. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Wait, wait!]] And the fact is that when Congresswoman Vadai threatens us here, the treaties created by the bill, it is the same line that Ferenc Gyurcsány started from making the land run. You said you'd nullify contracts under the law. You said that, by the way, you've been taking this apartment back from tenant families for a hundred years. The fact is, honourable Member, that this is all [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's just not a rule of law that you dream of. [[László Böröcz applauds.]] [[19.00]]
u2021-05-26-154	Congressman Z. Kárpat, then Congresswoman Valai.
u2021-05-26-155	Mr President, Dear House, It is the secondary shame to hear these absurd explanations, but my fellow Member Nacsa has also overcome this. He says that the reason why we need the housing law, the privatization thieving law, is because you now want the property taken by the Communists through nationalisation to be bought back by those involved. Do you understand what you're talking about? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Rents!]] So you're trying to get people to buy back property illegally taken in a series of amazing crimes? Well, wake up, I mean it. If you want to compensate those one or two dozen unfortunate victims and their descendants, I think in an independent bill, we will have Parliament's consensus on this. That's not what we're arguing about. We're arguing about the 95 percent of those who, if any, have acquired a lease as your minions a year or two ago in strange circumstances, and now you want to give them ownership at a printed price. Why should they wonder if we're telling them not to sleep in peace because it won't stay that way? Not my fellow Member, Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, or I myself will declare nullity, but, according to the existing legislation, the bodies responsible for doing so in a fair rule of law will not allow this madness, this expropriation of wealth, the betrayal of national wealth. It's that simple. It's a matter of law. Restoring and restoring the original state is indeed a possible legal consequence of the policy and proposal arising from distorted thinking that lies before us. So don't try to dictate to the Hungarian people how to live, sabotage the rental segment, 11 years of betrayal in this area was enough! Now, please accept your better intentions, withdraw all this madness, and let us repair at least some of it, recompense what is now being betrayed. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-05-26-156	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai!
u2021-05-26-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! So, Congressman Nacsa, I would like to say that you are disgusting. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Small fork!]] So you're disgusting. In this House, there have really been only those on that side who have allowed themselves to do so against those who have died and are dying. Shame on you, Congressman. You can argue about what we think of the bill itself, and I think it's okay. You can use strong words in that. What you allow here has nothing to do with the profession. I am pleased that Congressman Böröcz has made it clear that this is a bill, which is not suitable for the task that he would like to do, that he knew that this was not good when he presented it. [[László Böröcz: No!]] I'd like to say that it's obvious for the last 11 years that if you get law enforcement offices and buddies to do the law, you're gonna have such a codification by-product like this. [[László Böröcz: Amendment proposal!]] The law is about... and it is in vain that you are talking about the amendment by Mr Böröcz, because we have not yet seen the amendment and we know you, so there is no amendment. This law exists, and that's what this law is all about. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The Little Fork!]] that they want to spend hundreds, but rather thousands of billions of forints of wealth, and that they want to put many Hungarian people who are in a difficult situation, because there are such people, and they have to admit that they simply want to put them on the street. You're the condo mafia! We already knew, so they told us that mafia-like operation is not a bug, but a feature, if I can use that term, I don't know, understand what that means, but it's not a coincidence, it's a characteristic of your system. The promotion and support of the home mafia is clearly included in your bill. On the other hand, there is nothing in this proposal that Mr Böröcz has said that they would compensate the people from whom they have taken these properties. Bring in such a bill, as my fellow Member Z. Karpat said, there will surely be a majority of it in Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-158	Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP!
u2021-05-26-159	Thank you very much for the floor. My fellow Member Nacsa here is giving us a lecture on respect for contractual rights by discussing a law that ignores ownership. You ignore property rights, the constitutional right to property, the right to dispose of property rights, it also disregards constitutional law! And do you have the nerve to give a lecture on legal certainty? ! Oh, my God, you don't know what you're talking about, Congressman. The thing is, this bill, as it doesn't provide any compensation, is like I'm deciding what to do with your apartment right now. It's absurd! Let's finish this. I think there will be a chance for a proper comment, so I will explain this further. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-26-160	Congressman László Böröcz, Fidesz, in two minutes! Before you begin, I would like to inform Congressman Varga that he can speak in the next two-minute session, because his political partner, Mrs Vadai, has already spoken, so that the situation is clear and fair. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let's get something straight, though. Membership on compensation [[Agnes Vadai is on the phone.]] Take your time. I've been talking to hundreds of people who are involved in historic apartments. More than 500 people have completed the questionnaire asking what they think about this issue. They asked to buy it under the same conditions as your friends and friends could buy it in 94-95, for example. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] Just like everyone else, by the way. In 1994-95 most of the Council's apartments could be purchased under these conditions. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: So there is compensation!]] If you think that's a problem, I understand. Congressman Csárdi doesn't support me, I understand. So far, Congressman Csárdi has not stood for anything to serve the cause of those living in 1st century. That's the thing. I am sorry that you have left, Mr Reliable, because I wanted to say one thing quickly, which concerns social mobility, which he has suggested to help people living in a rented home, or not. Living in municipal tenements does not promote social mobility, because housing in social mobility is one of the most important things that families and people insist on, so because it has not been resolved today that someone can switch apartments from Budapest to Győr or from Győr to Székesfehérvár, so they will obviously never give up their municipal tenement, while if they own it, they can sell it and move away in the hope of a better job. You can do that. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-162	Independent Congressman Varga-Damm Andrea, here you go.
u2021-05-26-163	I would like to say to my fellow Member that he says that 500 people have signed that they want to do so under the same conditions as the Act 93. But, dear star [[Nacsa Lawrence: What?]] , why will 31 December 2020 be included in the proposal? What do you mean by 31 December 2020 is a tenant and you can use it? Well, I'm sorry, then I should have written that whoever was already, or his accomplice, was already a tenant in these apartments, then that's how it's done! Then you'll have to put that in the proposal. Now, everyone knows that it's because of Bayer and his associates December 31, 2020 because they're my buddy's fictitious exchange contracts that then created a lease in the Castle. Everyone knows that these fictitious swap agreements have always been illegal, but no one ever asked for them, right? Their problem now is that Márta V. Naszályi attacked the contract nicely. Why wouldn't he attack her? Well, it's just a fictitious contract, it's invalid, the original condition needs to be restored. Not to mention, just so modestly, they didn't even give me the look, and then they gave back the property, the cabin that the municipality got, to its child. Well, at least it would have been written for some stranger you don't even know on Facebook! Your son! So the whole system is so unscrupulous, it doesn't even give it back to its family member. Well, I'm sorry, a judge in a courtroom is gonna beat that this is an invalid transaction. And then you enter that you were a tenant on December 31, 2020! Well, why don't you just say, "In 93 or 2000, or something, I don't know, a time where we can't assume that this proposal is an abuse? Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]] [[19.10]]
u2021-05-26-164	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I know that in his speech he saw it as a non-harmful confidentiality. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] his comment on the content of the speech and related thereto, but it was. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Little Star?! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] So I would ask you, in this Chamber, to use the title, the specific forms of vocalism. So, sincerely hoping that it is clear and clear how it is worth going on, it is now time for Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik. Congresswoman, please.
u2021-05-26-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Not the home-privatization bill. That's what we are saying, sitting in opposition benches, and that's what we said last week at the Economic Committee meeting. I am very pleased that my fellow Member, László Böröcz, has been enlightened since then, because there he said with all his chest width that it is a fantastic suggestion that the entire Fidesz fraction will stand up to this, although we have told my fellow Member of Parliament the concerns about the pitfalls of this bill. Now we hear there's an amendment that we don't even know what it contains, but there is. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] We believe that there is, but even with that, they can't resolve our doubt that there will be another amendment on the TAB, and then whatever way you change it, you simply failed, and you failed, you're the subject of this. I am truly sorry that Böröcz dumped this on my fellow Member, and in fact, it appeared in his speeches that he was simply ashamed here in the walls of the House, that last Monday a fantasticly good proposal had now faded, that we were talking only about the Castle, and that there were only a few hundred apartments, and this is what we have. No! Well, what's happened is, there's also government mayors on this case for a reason. Well, when I asked what is the guarantee in this legislation that there will be no next sale the day after tomorrow, my fellow Member admitted that there is no such barrier. And when I said that we could baptize it to the House Mafia Act, because despite my fellow Member saying that those who owe or pay rent cannot buy it, someone will go there, give it to him, here, my friend, you have a few hundred thousand forints, pay it, and then you will write this lease very quickly, and I'll come the day after tomorrow and I'll give you two million more for it. And then it will happen, as my fellow Member said, that people will be on the street. And even though you're shaking your heads that this isn't going to happen, that's what we said at the Economic Committee meeting. And it is no coincidence that, now, on a non-existent amendment proposal, it is said that this is not included, but that the original proposal is no longer in place. Well, that's it. The whole story is that you tested Hungarian society, tested the municipalities. To my question, too, when I said that it was okay, but who was consulted by my fellow Member Böröcz, he says that 500... Now we know that 500 people have filled out the questionnaire that they want to live in their own apartment. Well, I'd like to fill that out, too, and then I'd like to do the same. I think ten million people would fill it out. It's just like, I was thinking about it, and I'm sorry that I'm smiling at it like when there was a consultation questionnaire on the protection of families, and there was a question about how you wanted to live in a happy family. Well, show me one Hungarian man who would have said no! Well, that's what this proposal is about. They're talking about things that are absolutely amazing. And it shouldn't be about that. It should be about protecting national assets. We were here in one of the fundamental debates on the budget, in the underlying debate on the 2022 budget, then one of the most important elements was the protection of national assets. I'm fully supportive. Well, I think our future is that national wealth, which is state and municipal, should be in as good a state as possible and serve the nation as long as possible. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's why we increased it!]] I think my fellow Members agree with that. But it is also quite talkative that we are here, and the most important thing for you is housing, to provide this to the Hungarian people, from the Fidesz Group László Böröcz is here, and from the KDNP Group, my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, is here. Of the 133 people, the Secretary of State is still here, but now he is not in his capacity, so we can say that there are two of them here. That's how important housing is to you. We, opposition representatives, are here to say that this legislation is, beyond all imagination, wrong as it is bottom-up, I'm sorry, all the fantasies are down to the fact that this proposal is here. And when my fellow Member, Jenő Manninger, said at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, that, well, Congresswoman, we only decide that this bill should be subject to a series of questions, so I said that it is no longer sane for those who vote to come before this House. Well, it was clear then that there was a bad suggestion on all sides, because... I am sorry, I do not want to see the dignity of this House being violated by the words I use, I am very careful not to let the President take the floor away from me, so I am trying to stay in that bed, but it is quite amazing what is in the proposal because we have the proposal before us today; what my fellow Member is talking about is not yet here before this House. We will meet again at the meeting of the Economic Committee, where my fellow Member will say that we have modified this and this and this, which will no longer be on a thank-you basis with what the Economic Committee allowed us to discuss last Monday. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that in the last few minutes or even hours we could say that my fellow Members on the opposition side have said that the proposal is bleeding from a thousand wounds and you can explain everything, but we cannot say yes to any home privatisation that harms Hungarian people and Hungarian self-governments. We are saying yes to the rent-apartment programme, and I also told my fellow Member Böröcz that. As I understand it, although I do not have complete information in this, my fellow Member was former deputy mayor. [[László Böröcz nods.]] If he was a deputy mayor, then you know very well that you have to hold a reception class. And on these reception hours, when you are sitting there as deputy mayor, and a family comes in there, and perhaps your child is there, and weeps to give him a municipal tenement, and you can say that 21 thousand apartments are now free in Hungary, but they are not free because they wouldn't have moved in there, but because they should have been renovated long ago, and they should have helped the municipalities a long time ago, and they shouldn't have taken away what the Orbán government has been doing since October 2019, not; they should have supported it to be renovated, and they could have moved 21 thousand families in some kind of tenement. That's what you say when you say it's a private home, and we sell the real estate we own. And I believe that it's embarrassing for you that the entire media has attacked this proposal, and that the mayors of the government have also stepped into this proposal, and it's really embarrassing, and I really feel sorry for you. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-166	Thank you very much. We will now continue with the speeches by the speakers announced in advance. The representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Zoltán Varga, is the first among these. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Congressman Böröcz, Well, I've been very interested in watching the debate, and I have to admit, I've been pushing a little bit for you, because you're not in an easy position. I would ask you to look carefully at how many of your colleagues are sitting here, how many of you are protecting your renome, your honor, your respect. Congressman Nacsa is here, but he's probably an inventory piece. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] his back probably has an inventory number on it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Do you have an apartment yet?]] So let's not count him in on this. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Nacsa Lőrinc: Where's the helmet?!]] Congressman [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The thing is, your dear leader backed out from behind you. [[Anita Kőrösi: That's right!]] Congressman Böröcz, your name is now not only synonymous with theft, because their hundred thirty-thirty are synonymous with theft, but the problem is that it is synonymous with stupid theft. The problem is that you've been assigned a task that no one has taken, not even Lajos Kósa, even though we know that he really is a very brave man. You're on your own, and you're on your own. There's no one to help me. And that's where we are now, otherwise, for some Zsolt-like spineless figures like Bayer, for these butlers and their villas in the castle, you're turning yourself into a bazaar clown. You know, that's the biggest problem. I'd be very interested to know what you've been told what's in it for. Now, allow me a personal little story. My girls, when they were little and they didn't understand something, they always came and said, "Dad, tell me the secret." [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Only you don't understand!]] [[19.20]] I would ask, or I would tell you, Congressman Böröcz, that: Father, tell me the secret. You knew about this at all, or it was just routine, they gave you the paper, you have to sign it. You're gonna be okay, son. You're gonna be okay. I just can't do this story right now, that's the problem. And it's not even that he's making himself a bazaar clown for Bayer, because it's just one person or two or three or ten. The biggest problem is that it's coming up in the background, and now hold on tight. The Orbán thread, the nice family. István Tiborcz. Does that name mean anything to you? Allow me to quote István Tiborcz literally. [[To László Böröcz:]] Grab his head. You can hold it in a year when you're sitting together. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What is it?]] In the next period, I expect significant movements in the housing market, many real estate will be available to the market, which will be a good opportunity for investors. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Don't threaten me.]] Continue quote:. It is no secret that we also think about boarding, buying apartments in downtown even through a professional housing fund. Do you know who said that? You should know, István Tiborcz. In this story, it's not about Zsolt Bayer-like spineless lackeys, it's about the nice Orbán family, who decided to bend down for another few hundred billion forints. Because that's what we're talking about. And you, Honourable Congressman Böröcz, give your name to this. This is how you will go into the history of Hungarian internal politics, under the name of the series of the stupidest thefts, and this is the terrible thing that we are doing here. You know, I believe you or you will be able to amend this proposal. This is quite clear, the original proposal was simply unacceptable; so when Fidesz mayors stand up against you as practically living phalanx, including the mayor of the city of Debrecen, about whom everything can be said, but the only thing that would not otherwise be a disciplined party soldier would not be a disciplined soldier for Orbán's army if he stood up and said in his own quiet way that this bill was unacceptable, because it would be worth billions of forints of damage to Debrecen. Do you know how much these billions are? We're talking about tens of billions of forints. And the problem is that if Debrecen's apartments are taken away otherwise, the problem is not only that there will be a loss of property in the city of Debrecen or in any city where there are local estates at all, but that people who cannot get an apartment in any way now, especially young people, and older people who, after exactly a worked-up life, are still there to move from sublet to sublet, will not have the opportunity at all to obtain housing in any way. What you are talking about is that mobility in Hungary is low. But why is mobility low in Hungary, and why is it higher than the Swedes, the Dutch, and God knows how many more in Europe? Because there is an adult, normal and just social housing system, or even a rental. Because in Sweden, municipalities and specific regions are building rentals and giving them to people, and if someone changes jobs, they simply go to another rental in another region. This is unthinkable in Hungary, because simply the state, you have withdrawn from it. 'Cause instead of building rent apartments, you're practically seeing business in it right now. And the problem, Congressman Böröcz, is that you saw the deal in it, because you didn't see any of it. Do you know who saw this deal? István Tiborcz saw the deal in this, but he was foolish enough to betray it to one of the journalists. And here the problem is that, in practice, Hungary seems to be nothing more than a henyard attached to Felsút, and Viktor Orbán otherwise provides for rent apartments, stadiums, hospitals, soldiers and everything else as if he were his own. But this period, thank God, is over slowly. And they left you hopelessly alone. Congressman! Otherwise, if I were you, I'd go up to the castle to see my boss, and I'd tell him to eat what he's cooking, don't make me a bazaar clown again, like they're making you. Because that's the drama. I'll tell you a story. You know, I'm from Debrecen, a Debrecen highway, on that highway, otherwise, what the Gyurcsány government built is about two and a half hours. Until then, the man has time for everything, and here I would say in parentheses, yes, there are speakerphones in my car, and that's when phone calls come in that even I'm shocked. A working couple in Debrecen, about to retire. The father's health is very, very damaged, working poor, but he gets a minimum of money, not nearly the average you lie in the eyes of the Hungarian people. This pre-retirement couple raised two children in a one and a half, perhaps an extra two-bedroom local government apartment. These kids are out. Your son now, if all is true, may work in a factory in Berlin. The little girl stayed home. And they called me almost crying that they were going to keep me there, that while the children were home, they could pay the rent of the apartment, but two of them couldn't afford it, to help them, as former municipal representatives in Debrecen, and to get them a flat with a cheaper lease. So it's not that they're happy that they're gonna be able to buy their apartments at a tithe price, but they're simply trying to create a way-by-way opportunity to move to a significantly cheaper, smaller, less comfortable apartment. [[László Böröcz will stand up and leave.]] Congressman Böröcz, don't go. [[László Böröcz: I'm not going!]] I'm gonna give you so many good ideas, I'm gonna advise you. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Don't threaten me.]] I believe the idea seems like a threat, but believe me, it's from the heart. So these people's big problem isn't that they're buying anything at the Castle right now, it's how to make their lives cheaper and they can't. And if these apartments, which are now in Debrecen and even in a few other cities, are pulled out from under them, if the Fidesz hyenas, the real estate neppers and the condo mafia show up, then these people who can't afford to pay the rent for an extra half-room municipal tenant will be on the street. And we need to think about what's going to happen. Congressman Böröcz, what are you going to say to these people? Not for my friends in District One, Castle, speaking of buddies, because maybe you told Congressman Csárdi that you were my buddy. If we're talking about buddies, you guys have buddies here, 'cause otherwise, the world hasn't seen such a nasty, naughty bill like what you've just presented to us. It also proves that there's no one behind you. Two of us need to protect what Viktor Orbán invented and spit on himself. Technically, Congressman Böröcz, and I apologize to the chair of the meeting, I say this only for the plastic signalling structure that you have on your head at these very moments, the cub that the dear leader has filled. 'Cause we're at the point where you've been handed a bill, or else you realize it's gonna be people rage and running, and now you've been told to figure it out. Apparently, it's beyond your reach, and it's not gonna work. But good luck with that. I can tell you to think about what you're doing, it's a very short one year for you to be in power here. But you have to think, if the Fidesz mayors are speaking in a mass, if Debrecen's Fidesz party soldier, an otherwise quiet technocrat, is telling you that it's not acceptable, then believe me that there's more trouble than you think, then you're about to end this story, and it's going to end very badly. Thank you very much. [[19.30]]
u2021-05-26-168	Thank you very much. Tamás Sneider may speak to an independent representative. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-169	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would say that it is a breath of breath that we have heard, or a partial breath of breath, because this bill that everyone has criticized, even the members of our own fidesz Members here in the corridors and mayors, of course, is clearly no longer going to pass through the walls of Parliament. At the same time, however, I wanted to ask you to speak because you are thinking in a completely different concept, and I see that the opposition, and not only the opposition, but also a lot of independent Members, who are also opposition representatives at the moment, in an understandable way, as well as the ruling party. This is also interesting, because this was not always the case, because between 1998 and 2002, it was the Fidesz that announced a large municipal rental program, and many of us remember it, who then were representatives or sub-Mayors or were involved in public life, that after ten years there was a serious rental construction program, which was otherwise owned by the municipality. I have in front of me the speech by Gabriella Selmeczi from 99, where he says: "We launched the public-supported rental program last July, so after more than ten years in Hungary, the increase of the local government's rentals started with central public support. The interest in the program exceeded all expectations..., well, there seems to be a demand for municipal tenements, at least at that time, I suppose it was now,... so far nearly 2,500 municipal tenements have been supported by the Ministry of Economy, and the rest, and the rest, I do not mention the speech. We were very happy, and I, too, who was already in public life at the time, and I was soon to be a municipal representative, and then I had to deal with these apartments, which were built then, thanks to Fidesz, I have to add. What God gives, a little time passes, the social situation has not changed particularly since then, I must add, and the exact opposite is said now, or the exact opposite has been presented by some of the representatives of Fidesz. Well, just a few thoughts about when I was a municipal representative for eight years at the social council As a member, once in a fidesz-led period, once in a socialist-led period, how Eger's city thought about housing stock, where I was a municipal representative, and there was a complete consensus. In 93 we know that a very, very significant part of the municipal tenements were sold, and we also had about 900 apartments left, but it was essential for everyone that this municipal tenement stock should not be further reduced, and even if there is a possibility, financial possibility, this should be increased. And even if, where appropriate, for rational reasons, we sold a local government apartment, the only way to sell it was to buy another tenant, a municipal tenant. And I have to add, by the way, that we sold apartments that were city-owned, historic buildings, precisely from the idea that it would be much harder for the municipality to maintain large-scale buildings requiring large renovations, than, where appropriate, residential dwellings, which are much more suitable for the creation of social housing stock, in particular, than, say, buildings with a height of 4-5 rooms with a height of 3.80 meters. So from this point of view, this story of the castle is a little similar to the situation at the time, and from a rational point of view it is completely acceptable. Of course, there were only one or two properties of the municipality in a condominium, but in return we sold real estate in condominiums where we owned up to 40-50 percent and bought there. So the point is, it's not that it rationalizes a local government and buys and sells apartments, but it's obviously when it's taken away in bulk, like the bill here, because it's actually taking away municipal property. By the way, I'm very surprised what happened. Couldn't you call at least a few mayors and see what he thought, Fidesz mayor, that the city would be freed from 50-60 billion forints of real estate? Well, who's the local government expert, mayor, who's happy to see the city lose 50-60 billion forints? Well, it doesn't have to be so big a thought, and this points out, as has already been said here, that Fidesz's thinking is that there is no consultation here, it's not enough to involve opposition and civil society organisations and anyone else, our own powerful, powerful mayors, in drawing up such a bill. But what I would definitely like to talk about, and it is actually a conceptual issue, since this bill came here, that it was also mentioned here by my fellow Member Böröcz at the beginning, that in Western Europe the tenement was different, and they went through other historical developments, so, yes, thank God, they did a lot of things a little smarter there, and let's see what it really means, what it means, because I didn't see very much that someone was pushing it, even a little bit. The fact is that in Western Europe, the United States of America, Australia, I could basically list the developed world, and not only the developed world, but also Singapore, there are a very large number of places in Asia, as many of my opposition fellow Members have already said, which clearly facilitates mobility, and this housing stock is often held by local governments, but not only by local governments. There are a lot of systems in place in Western Europe, of which we have not taken over anything in the world, and the current government is not thinking at all, it is clearly visible, although this could be a huge solution for young people, for those in need, who, as has been said here several times, do not have millions, tens of millions of people to acquire one of their own property right now. Everyone would be happy with their own property in an understandable way, but to make a young man think with a net salary of 100, 200 or 300 thousand forints that he will build a 40 million-dollar family house, which still only comes out 80 to 100 square meters from today's prices, well, it doesn't take much imagination that it won't work. Well, in Hungary, it accounts for only 2 percent of the housing stock, 2 percent of the municipal housing stock is about, while the same rate, let's say, in England, France, is between 17 and 20 percent. It's already thoughtful in itself, but how do I give you an even more interesting data, in the Netherlands, where other systems work? [[László Böröcz and Lőrinc Nacsa are talking.]] I see, my fellow Members are talking, and I am here on behalf of Fidesz, my fellow Member Böröcz, and I am saying that it is worth reading these, it would be worth reading to the government and to you, to find out how these Western European systems work or the systems in the developed countries, but now they are talking, because there is obviously something more important than perhaps learning about it. Well, in the Netherlands, 40 percent of all housing stock is rented, and in the Netherlands it is operated by housing associations, not even by municipalities. And it is nonprofit, I have to add, it operates in a non-profit cooperative system, and it has worked in many places in Western Europe, and it is perhaps the most successful way to maintain or control rent prices. As a result, these apartments are at least 20-25 percent cheaper on a market basis, but still, as they are nonprofit than other private rentals. So it is clear that the housing issue has a lot of proposals for solutions, and it is best to vary them otherwise. The municipal tenement system should continue to be maintained as appropriate. It is probably worth the most in need, but at the same time it would be worth considering what works very well, for example, in the US and Germany, to give rent subsidies to families that are in need or housing support. [[19.40]] This is what the local authorities give under local regulations, of course, only in countries with a more fortunate historical situation, is centrally resolved, and in the US, if I remember correctly, the federal government itself is paying for them, and even the construction of the rental apartments was paid for by the federal government until the '60s, not by the local government. So I'm going to tell you this because if such a bill comes before us so, really recklessly, apparently without any background knowledge, then do it the next time, try to see how housing management works in the world, the state, various state functions work in this area, and, of course, consult their own representatives and mayors. Well, overall, I think and an important programme of not only me, but also the Civil Reply is to increase the number of apartments in itself, among the many models that otherwise exist in Western Europe, try to take over, try to take over in the coming years the Hungarian government, whether the current opposition or the current government, will be in power as many solutions as possible. Obviously, it would be best, by the way, that state, municipal, or, as I have just said, non-profit organizations, or, by the way, I dare even venture to risk that church organizations can operate such housing programs in a calm manner, and that they may grant rentals and apartments on a non-profit basis. Then in Hungary, young people who have very, very little opportunity to get an apartment, choose normal housing... This is about 300,000 people, by the way, according to surveys, so it's not a small layer. They continue to live in crowded conditions, they come up to work in the cities, but there are five or six people locked together in one apartment, where appropriate, and so they can, say, rent in Budapest and even work on construction projects. Or they work in shops as sellers, these people would also have the opportunity to have the right to normal housing, in an apartment, not in five or six crowded with strangers, but to have one or two family members, where appropriate, and to live a normal life, as would otherwise be expected from XXI. Here in Europe in the century. So summa summarum, on the one hand, we are pleased that this bill has been changed, but we would like the Civic Reply to see the proposals that have been made here, to think about it, and next time to come up with a bill that will help young people, those in need, to access the apartment, who are not now able to obtain a separate apartment, to obtain a separate property. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-05-26-170	Thank you very much. Two-minute circle: Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP.
u2021-05-26-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman Varga here has played such an insulting competition with himself, how he can scold us as much as possible, and even though I don't wear glasses, there may be a tinfoil helmet, but I don't see it, somehow it's my eyes. So end this threat and insult, honourable Congressman Varga, by trying to find signs in an increasingly harsh tone of what we are here with my fellow Member Böröcz and where he's going to put us in jail. You know, there's a separation of powers, it's not up to you to decide where you're going to jail. I would ask Mr Csárdi, because he has spoken here several times in the debate, but he has not once responded to the campaign promise made by Márta V. Naszályi that he will sell these apartments to the tenants. And he also did not respond to the fact that the Picos had sold 72 apartments during their activities in a year and a half while only 36 apartments were tendered. How is the housing policy of the mayor of the constituency represented by you compatible with what you've said here, because you've supported both mayors in a full-scale campaign, all the way and ever since. Tell me how these two mayors' destructive policies are compatible with what you just said. I have further questions about this, but, to do so, you would have to answer these suggestions as to why you supported such candidates. And I still don't understand the fact that everyone here is struggling during his speech to prevent Hungarians from getting an apartment. And you're saying that 95 percent of the monument apartments in the Castle belong to our buddies? Well, if there were so many Fidesz supporters in the Castle, we wouldn't have lost the municipal election, fellow Members. Don't be ridiculous. You want to deny Hungarian families access to housing and property. I think this is not the right direction, and I think it is the right direction that my fellow Member has been thinking about, and we have been thinking together, and I think that we should follow it. Thank you.
u2021-05-26-172	Thank you. Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK, two minutes!
u2021-05-26-173	Thank you very much. I never thought it would bring such happy moments before dinner, Congressman Nacsa. I don't know what he's smoking, but he probably got it from Tamás Deutsch. You could give us some of that, see if we're as happy as you are. It's a sentence about the tinfoil helmet. You're right, it was a confrontation in 2017 or maybe 2018 about your stupid and non-existent Soros plan, but since I've been in Parliament, I can see, following government policy, that you wouldn't be wearing the tinfoil helmet anymore, but the straitjacket would be cool. But back to what you said: I don't really understand why it's so important to you that you keep dealing with this issue, how many divorces, births and other things there are. I don't know if they're connected to some fertility god or something, but let me try to correct you because you're either miscalculating or lying wrong. According to KSH, there were 23 873 divorces in 2010 and 17 600 in 2019. Forty percent of the 2010 data is 9549, and math doesn't come out anywhere, that there would be 40 percent less divorce, I have to add. The second is that the number of divorces has already increased by 15 percent from 2019 to the same period in 2020. I don't know what's gonna happen next. Are you guys guilty of harakiri or something? Or do you admit that the opposition has won after all? I just don't understand, it's completely insane. The other: there was much to be said about why the rental-privatisation took place in 93. Let's agree, because there are colleagues here who have lived through the change of regime, I could also say that they have a sober head, and they know that then an agreement was made with the municipalities that the apartments that they inherit as a public tenant, and they have no idea what to do with them, because they simply have no talent and money to fix it, will be sold. So I'd ask you to lie, but then lie so that you can't find out in ten seconds that they're lying, because that's a very pathetic thing to do. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-174	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa came forward in order of business. With all due respect, since we're negotiating in an orderly manner, please tell me that on account of your personal involvement... [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes.]] Then press the button, please, to keep the house rules. I'll give you the floor. Congressman Nacha, please.
u2021-05-26-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked to speak on account of personal concerns, because the Gyurcsányist representative suggested that we here are using some kind of mind-altering agent, which is a despicable slander, and I would like to reject it on behalf of everyone who is sitting here in the fidesz and KDNP benches. I find it pathetic that when we're out of the argument of the Gyurcsányist congressman, he accuses us of smoking something. [[Zoltán Varga: Because he's miscalculating!]] Please, and keep your head down. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-176	I suggest we return to the trial of the law. I am sure that you will be able to do so, Mr László Hajdu, representative of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Böröcz and I are on the same committee, and we are on a relationship that I thought that, as mayor for perhaps 20 years, you would mention with a sentence that you were about to do something like this, perhaps my opinion would have mattered. But I think that Mr Böröcz may have signed this proposal in a somewhat dependent situation, because we are talking about the original version of this bill, but we have heard how it will be changed. His original version as former deputy mayor couldn't have been signed either, especially if he asked some mayors to join me here in front of me. [[19.50]] Today, there were two topics on which Mr Tállai, State Secretary, was obliged to give his opinions in both of them. One is the law on family bankruptcy and the other is the pandant of this. In the Family Bankruptcy Act, we asked that debtors who took out loans and could not pay them can get the right to walk away, so they will be out of the apartment, but at least they will not be accompanied for life, this debt for 30-40 years. Both Secretary of State and Congressman Nacsa said there is no job! There's no debt cancellation, there's no such thing as debt cancellation. What do we do now? Now we're handing out municipal property for free. So on the same day, two positions. We don't give them anything in one position, we don't have the right to walk away, and in the other we say, "Well, please, that's what they deserve, that's the gift we give them." Now in the housing market, these can be 30-40 million apartments, we don't know, and you can get it for 1-2 million forints. For what I asked for, it's period 93. I have to, because the reference is limping, and it's very untrue, and that's why I'd like to talk about it. I was a municipal representative in 1990, and I was tasked with the difficult situation in which the former state-owned tenements had to be taken over by the municipalities in the framework of a property transfer. The councils didn't have an apartment, it was state-owned, and they got it on that condition. [[Speaking to András Tállai, László Böröcz and Lőrinc Nacsa:]] If you'd just pay attention a little bit, because I'd like to say a little bit to the authors that they're obligated to alienate them to those who couldn't privatise from socialist corporate assets at the time of the change of regime. Because there were various ways of privatizing public property: those who worked for the company could buy shares and many other things, and who had a rental, were given the right, subjective rights, so that the municipality could not deny the future owner so that he could buy this. A deadline was granted, which was then extended by the government, and this privatisation was completed on 31 December. Until then, these apartments could not be registered in the name of the municipalities, they received this property under conditions, and those who purchased it for a symbolic amount, for a right of the subject, and to whom it could not be sold, there was a prohibition of disposal. This proposal allows it to be sold the next day without any disposal ban if it has been registered at the Land Office or it does not even have to be registered; so there are a lot of things limping about this case. So when we say once that we don't give people anything, work, work; on the other hand, we say that even a historic apartment, it can buy a high-value historic apartment. And the monument apartments. They couldn't buy the monument apartment at the time, not simply because it was a monument, but they couldn't buy it because there was, in fact, an office for the protection of monuments, an authority for the protection of monuments, and then there was value to the monument. And they didn't want these to go into private property. However, the proposal that we have come to know here, the proposal, however, kicks off everything related to ownership. Varga-Damm Andrea told me everything about ownership. So we simply cannot present a municipal property as we cannot, nor can my neighbour's property be transferred to Parliament to be taken away from it, nor can it be the state property, even the thirty-three. Not with a brave man's vote. It cannot be taken away from the municipalities, because we are attacking it anywhere, and it can be successfully attacked even in the Hungarian legal order, and this must be attacked. The following is why the municipalities must insist on this wealth. To my municipality, which I represent, the 15th. Circuit, has 2,000 apartments. He's got ten or twenty less than two thousand, but he's got two thousand municipal tenements. When we took over the estate, there were 16 900 apartments for the state. It was then necessary to create a trust organisation and many other things, and in that period it developed a structure that was different and different for all municipalities: panel ratio and old, traditional-built ratio. In our case, it was painful because there are some I have to say that there are about one third of these two thousand that are in a garden house. So they could've gotten garden homes, I can tell you, symbolically, with priceless property prices, they would've gotten these apartments. I have to add that there is little argument that someone has the right to buy it for 30-40 years, because if he has done it with honor, he has done it with honor, he paid the wages with honor, even for a further period. But what we need is that there hasn't been a rental in Hungary for decades, so I have to say that people are lining up for the apartment that the tenants are dying from. So we have about 40 of these empty apartments a year on average, and we can advertise these 40 apartments to the tenants. Judging from the applications, because we can't keep records like this, but based on the applications, we know that there are about seven hundred legitimate claimants in such a district. Forty can be satisfied, about 40, that's the average number. If I take it that someone is young married and wants to get an apartment, they're both working, but at minimum wage, they'll be in about ten years' time in such housing conditions so they can get an apartment. If we sell this, it'll zip them. No more! There's nothing! This is also the case for those who have received a local government tenement, whether on a market basis, a cost principle or a social or a service, because municipalities are forced to keep a doctor, if they want to keep the policeman, if they want to keep the fireman, if they want to keep a public servant who is important to the district, then the only reserve we can keep is a municipal tenant. Now about 20 cops have these apartments out of two thousand. The police captain was quite frightened because we had a contract, all of which were included in the original proposal, they could have bought the municipal tenement, and we couldn't have been able to shoot this particular apartment for the service. So I think that this is a very thoughtless, unthinkable presentation, and I think that even if the monument remains in it, it will be a problem. Dear tableds, I would like to ask you to think about it, to think about whether you are pushing this historic issue, or to stop doing so. It's a failed thing. From an election point of view, I believe that the situation was about what occurred in 1993. Why did they come up with this in 1993 so they could buy it as a subject? Before the election of 94, they thought it was gonna be huge, we're talking about the Antall government, it's gonna be a huge bang. This has become such a bang that the governing party has almost been left out of Parliament. I think that if there is some sort of campaign smell in this proposal, then I need to withdraw very quickly to give campaign advice, because once they have failed, there is an experience. And I think that the uproar that you put behind me is a very bad message for this proposal that you have put here. It cannot be supported, and I think it is unconstitutional, and it is illegal; and I am ashamed that we are on a committee, and you have not honored me by asking me about it. Thank you. [[20.00]]
u2021-05-26-178	Thank you very much. A representative of the Dialogue, Congressman Bence Tordai, is next.
u2021-05-26-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, In Hungary there is a housing crisis, 2.5 million people live in overcrowded homes or unhealthy homes; 2.5 million people are waiting to help the government, who are waiting for this in vain, and even millions of other families who do not live in state-of-the-art homes and homes. There are millions of families in Hungary whose homes, insulation, windows, heating systems are not the XXI. They're at the top of the century. These matters should be dealt with in 2021 in Hungary, and yet, when Fidesz touches the housing law, Fidesz will submit an amendment that will only serve the interests of the top one percent, the Fidesz power-economic elite. And then they figure out how to grab even bigger. Now, while eating, if it's already stealing, it should be a big, big theft, and then, in addition to the original confiscating of the apartments in the castle, their buddies' apartments at a printed price, they thought that virtually all the local governments would be deprived of their housing and that all the small-money young families would be deprived of the hope of ever getting a municipal tenement. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Own property...]] So if we look at why this proposal is in the interests of one percent and why it is not 99 percent, we will see that because you are not interested in 99 percent, you do not consider the service of a large majority of Hungarians to be their task. You, I'll tell you whose financial interests you want to serve. Congressman Böröcz came up with this bill for the following figures. Let's start with Minister Palkovic, but he's the one sitting here in the parliamentary horseshoe. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] So as a minister, he rents an apartment in the Castle, which he can now buy at a price, thanks to the brave 133 people in Fidesz. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Then there is the proud owner of Fidesz' 5th party book, Zsolt Bayer. No one has done more than him to smack the stupid, lying, evil propaganda you're ordering. Obviously, his reward after an outrageous, apparently illegal, apartment-house shit should be an almost gifted historic apartment in the castle. Then there's Minister Szijjártó's friend, his business partner, Fidesz-near billionaire oligarch, Tibor Kuna, if you don't know that much, the description doesn't make it clear. There is a friend of John Lazarus, his hunting companion, the Archduke of Habsburg. There is a friend, a relative, and a full circle of friends of other Fidesz ministers, congressmen, and others; but there is also the fallen mayor of District I who also arranged for himself a cheap apartment in the Castle, which he can buy even cheaper after the ridiculous rent after he has been snatched from the noses of medical students. Thus, such and similar people, in the vast majority, whose interests are served by this amendment of the law. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] For the sake of this one-percent, they thought that they could deprive municipalities of their ownership, which is perhaps one of the most fundamental rights if we are talking about a rule of law, but obviously we are not talking about a rule of law. However, not only is the right to property violated with regard to the adoption of this bill where appropriate, but the right to social security is violated, since those who today need the support of local authorities to help them resolve their housing, in the future, if this were to be carried through in its original form and the majority of the housing stock of nearly 100,000 municipalities were taken away, they would obviously no longer be able to count on the support of the municipalities. And that would make the housing crisis worse, more people would be on the streets, more people would be living in unworthy conditions, crowded small homes or housing poverty, when housing costs take away most of their income. And, of course, by adopting such a law, the principle of self-government would also be violated, which, in principle, is also protected not only by the Constitution, but also by your Fundamental Law, as a value to be protected, it speaks of it as an important principle. The local government, which, in recent times, seems to have become the main enemy of the Fidesz government, has become Viktor Orbán's main nightmare that there are settlements in the country that say that even if we are punished, even if we are deprived of support, we will choose an independent or opposition mayor, because we believe that they represent our interests, we believe that the change starts from settlements, villages and cities. After all, the beginning of your fall is precisely the moment of the last municipal election when millions of people chose opposition mayors, opposition representatives. That's how we beat your man, the man of power in Budapest. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Gergely Christmas, co-chair of the Dialogue, is the mayor of Budapest, and since then you have been constantly wondering how you can get revenge on the municipalities. In the first place, free cities and settlements that are not controlled by faithful Fidesz mayors have been hit by an amazing amount of withdrawal, but the fact is that a lot of people have fallen in the friendly fire, the inhabitants of fidesz-led cities also feel the weight of austerity, because, on the basis of the epidemic, in Europe, they have not given extra support to municipalities in an unprecedented way, but have been hit by withdrawals, while their costs have increased and their revenues have fallen because of the epidemic. So, you're trying to do a famished, exsanguination tactic against the local authorities and against the people who live there, but it seems that by now you've had enough, not just the opposition mayors, not just the residents, not only 99 percent of society, but the withdrawal that the local governments are suffering will not only hurt the mayor, but it will hurt everything that lives there. For example, removing 40 percent of their revenues from Budapest and maintaining the same public services from less budget is obviously an almost impossible mission. Obviously, Gergely Christmas and the majority of the Republic that stands behind it will solve this, but at this time you are destroying the quality of life of the inhabitants of the Hungarian people, the settlements led by the opposition, pro-government and independent mayors. [[Lőrinc Nacsa is talking to László Böröcz.]] Even if you try to pretend that you have something very important to discuss, the point is that you have gone so far in this political vendetta that even the most loyal Fidesz soldiers can't follow you there. So when the mayors of the districts of Budapest, the mayors of county-righted cities, who are also members of Fidesz, raise their voice against the bill against the infinitely damaging, obviously violating and violating the sense of the rights of all well-spoken people, which our fellow Member Böröcz has deigned to bring before the Parliament, then perhaps they could discover that there is a problem. So there is this extreme policy that loyal Fidesz party soldiers are not willing to follow or unable to follow. When the horse's foot hangs out so much, when it is so obvious that they represent the interests of one percent of the housing mafia near Fidesz, who have the right capital, the right system of relations, yes, his relationship with Congressman Böröcz, in order to buy up these apartments to be sold at the price of prints, his mayors will not be able to go with you on this trip either. You have suffered a defeat here. For you, your blood steamy, truly vengeful policy, which has been observed since the autumn of 2019, will lead to their destruction. They prepare their own failure. Obviously, we are also trying to do our part to get to their well-deserved fate in 2022, but that if you want to do us a favor, then you should continue to pursue a campaign against people's dreams; then start a campaign against the future of people, against safe housing; then deal with the amendment of the housing law on how your friends could become even richer instead of helping the millions of Hungarian families who need it. Let's look at what the opposition is offering to Hungarian families, what we are proposing in relation to the rental sector. [[20.10]] We say that it should not be scattered, that we should play local and public housing into the hands of the fidesz housing mafia, but we should actually expand their number to about double, this current tens of thousands of apartments can and must be doubled in one or two cycles. Your housing policy is a complete failure, the upper middle class, and most of the top 1 percent, of course, was perfectly suited to serve, but 99 percent of those who want a little better quality, a little bigger, a little healthier, a little more up-to-date, a little more efficient living in a home, but they themselves couldn't do anything because they didn't want to help. There should also be a programme in the area of housing policy that serves the interests of the large majority, the 99 percent. This is what we promise, and this is what we will try to do after 2022, because this will be the year that you will fail because of your attempts to do something like this. Now, if the backbone of this bill is indeed withdrawn, they have already admitted that they have been defeated, they have already admitted that they have hit a wall, they have already admitted that the resistance that opposition parties, civil society organisations, for example, represented here this morning by the joint resistance of the 32 housing and other civil society organisations holding a press conference in Kossuth Square, has broken their momentum, and it has deterred you from their insufferable goals. And we will do the same next year in the elections, because we cannot allow this country to be harmed by new ideas, newer and more public policy areas, destroying the future of Hungarian people, their faith in the future and their hopes. We can't afford to do any more damage. Redemption is required in 2022. We will give this redemption to Hungary, and that is what 99 percent of us want, peace, calm, human service policy, and that completely cynical, hypocritical politicians like you, who serve the interests of their own circles and business partners, will finally disappear from power. This will be valid next year in the elections. So thank you very much for your services in this matter, and we would especially like to thank Congressman Böröcz, who, with his immeasurable stupidity or the spineless service of other people's greed, has been kind enough to help us with this goal. Thank you very much. At the same time, I would like to point out that your bill cannot be accepted after the adoption of the alleged amendments. So the Dialogue will reject the whole thing, and we suggest that if they don't want to hurt the country and themselves any more, they should take it back while they still can. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-180	Thank you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about the II. District Committee membership?]] Our next speaker is not Congressman Nacsa, whom I am reprimanding. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Does that just happen?]] Our next speaker is not Congressman Nacsa, whom I say again, I am warning you for the second time, but Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, to whom I give the floor. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]]
u2021-05-26-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear tableds, Sorry about the plural, but Congressman Nacsa is clearly also a co-presenter. He concluded his last comment by my fellow Member Nacsa in order to launch the opposition on the road you have proposed. Why I am bringing this up is that from this bill, my fellow Member Böröcz, it is not in any way clear what path this would be. Tell me, and for the first time, we are talking only about world heritage property, what guarantees have been incorporated into the law in order not to bring this one-time and unrepeatable miracle of our world heritage into the hands of a multitude of foreigners. Tell me, Congressman, how you can and/or want to ensure the protection of monuments within the Castle Quarter, and where I can find this in this bill. Because it sounds very nice that you asked hundreds of people, and I have the picture in front of me: would you like to receive 80, 90, 70 million forints as a gift? Come on, point me out to the fellow countryman who says, "Oh, no, I'm not asking." It's not real, is it? Of course, I think that if you had worked a little with him and not only invested energy in the formulation of the horse-zungs, on the one hand, this questionnaire could contain up to ten thousand signatures. On the other hand, I think that we have a responsibility here in this House in terms of how we intend to preserve our national values. And since I asked this question first, and unfortunately I have read the bill in no way trying to protect our national values, let me make a few comments on this. Why did you miss the disposal ban, any length, of this bill? How can my fellow Member Böröcz guarantee that, if and if this bill is adopted, the Castle District will not be in the hands of foreign investors within a few months? You know, that one-time, unrepeatable, unique national treasure. If you go out of the plenary room, if you listen a little, you'll notice that the crown is here, the crown jewel. You're not planning on selling that, are you, fellow Member? Because at the moment, this bill is about the fact that the Hungarian state is unable to defend our national treasures, but in return it raises its hand and says that it is a free robbery. He won't protect her in any way. We do not see any reasonable and, unfortunately, any guarantee as to how and how to ensure the fulfilment of the historic protection task, which has so far been run by your party partner, as the local government, which is now under opposition leadership, is constantly doing. Do you know what I'm talking about, Congressman? Remodeling fads, roof changes, I could tell you a long time. Tell me how you intend to ensure the preservation of this national treasure, including, say, preservation, renewal, and how you intend to keep this national treasure in the hands of our compatriots. Or is everything for sale? Is everything really for sale, Congressman? But let's keep going. When you drafted this bill, you spoke about it, and you are constantly clinging to it to ensure access to property and housing. My fellow Member, the fact is that this proposal completely forgets the tens and hundreds of thousands who are in line at the moment, are on a waiting list for municipal, social or other types of rentals. [[20.20]] How big this line is, because Congressman is apparently not prepared for this question, I will tell you that in 2014, at an early spring date, Budapest IX. The economic committee of the district and then the district board decided who would receive it, or whether the municipality led by János Bácskai should distribute the apartments for which the application was made and now pay attention to the date! It came into existence until 2001, which was in 2014. So, Congressman, I think that this bill is already harmful and faulty for many reasons that the opposition has said and I have said. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this could have been done well, for example, if the Member had said in the bill that our compatriots living in the local government tenement, who could not have bought their apartments in 93 but still live in it, could buy them at a reduced price. It wouldn't collapse the rental system, so I think it could have struck an injustice balance. Yes, it also arises here that this sale, which I am talking about, should have included the guarantees, limits, protections, the ban on disposal and some kind of guarantee as to how, from what source, the current tenant, who would then become owner of the law, would then be able to preserve the state and state of the monument. Unfortunately, I have to add so much to this bill, beyond the fact that you didn't do this, that with such incredible arrogance from the bill, don't get me wrong, I'm not trying to criticize your style for this whole situation that you've been trying to solve, that I think a man who's going to think to a moderate degree about this situation is gonna come out of his way. So I think, and I expect the left, like you conservative politicians, if you can be called conservative, to respect the sanctity of property and its constitutional protection. I do not think that this does not mean that it could not otherwise have been in consultation with the municipalities, so the owner could not have bypassed a law that would have corrected the injustice that very many people could not have bought their apartment in 93. At the same time, after 93, let's say from 95 onwards, for the sake of beauty, every new tenant even came to the municipal tenement by tender, or the dexterity of my sundam coat, such as Zsolt Bayer, was aware that he had bought a lease, and was also aware that, at the moment of his purchase, the sale of the monument apartments by the municipalities was prohibited by law. So it is not up to the municipality to sell these apartments or not. So I do not think that these apartments should be sold in any way, because otherwise it is the only way that I can preserve the national treasure, the cultural heritage that this part of Budavar means. Your proposal has the consequences of losing this cultural heritage, losing all means of protecting this area and these apartments. I am really just talking about monuments and world heritage sites, because I hope in good faith that you have not lied to the camera or to the eyes of my fellow Members here, and that there is an amendment that no one knows about. I must add, however, that I still have two minutes to say that the ridicule of the world, the clowning of this House, which you have committed by now admitting that we are debating a law in this House other than you, if you have seen it at all, that no one has ever seen. Shame and shame! If you were telling the truth at the beginning of the debate, then the law that we are discussing is going into the trash for no reason, there is every reason to land in the trash, but what we are arguing about, the amendment, let's call it, no one knows. [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] No, Congressman, because Congressman Nacha is shaking his head. The fact is that a fair trial of this can only be imagined if the parties to the debate know the material, but you are, on the one hand, afraid and unprepared, and the original bill was so foolishly wronged that you could not guarantee this fundamental right. So I think that even the negotiation of this bill is a joke category. I would like to ask the Member that the aspects that I have said, the protection of our cultural heritage, the same domestic status, if they are national [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] ensure that the change is made. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]]
u2021-05-26-182	Thank you. Our next speaker is Mr Zoltán Varga, MEP DK, and I give him a two-minute opportunity to speak.
u2021-05-26-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The thing is, it's very difficult for me to believe a word you're saying, but let's play with the idea that you were actually serious about your original proposal, and then, in principle, the existing amendment, which, of course, is like Columbo's wife, that everyone is talking about it, but no one has seen it. So you think that it is particularly useful for Hungarian society to have a historic home in cultural heritage areas. Let's just say I'd be very interested, otherwise, to explain why it's good for anyone to sell these apartments, obviously, other than those who are going to do business with it. Once again, it's unthinkable, but let's play it hypothetically with the idea that the moment may come that I believe you. [[20.30]] Confirm it then, and this is a very simple thing in writing, and the Prime Minister will also sign it, it should be included in the bill... [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] It's ridiculous, isn't it? Well, I can laugh at it, too, that's right. [[Defiance.]] Come on, let's not look at each other like birds. That Rákay Philip, Bayer Zsolt, Palkovics, Kuna Tibor, Tiborcz, Mészáros and their interests renounce all rights which affect these areas, because they do not have to, because they are pocketing billions, not weekly, not monthly, but daily, for the benefit of Hungarian people, Hungarian society. At the moment, that's the hypothesis that you guys are telling the truth sometimes. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Maybe it'll become true. Prove you can do this. I will be the first of the opposition politicians to support this proposal. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-05-26-184	Another two minutes, Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2021-05-26-185	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to use this two-minute comment to ask the Secretary of State, on behalf of the government, to tell us in detail what is in the amendment, and to deny that we cannot recognise this amendment here, which we are debating. [[To András Tállai:]] So, Mr Secretary of State, with all due respect, I ask you to tell this House what is in the amendment. You're here on behalf of the government, and I think this is a legitimate and reasonable question from you. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-05-26-186	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Here, Congressman Böröcz, you have the floor.
u2021-05-26-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Varga has gone... Sweden compares with Hungary what the housing stock looks like in Sweden, which did not experience such a 40-year-old communism, in contrast we did, and there was a whole different set of conditions then, I believe that it could be... [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] I believe it's possible. I'm sure he has exactly the problem that he managed to change the regime, and the situation that was before. 89 has changed. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] The other one, Mr Tordai, has also left, who has also said some interesting things. I understand this 99:1 percent, the Communist Party has always won the elections by 99 percent. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai beckons to the pro-government benches: Fidesz!]] So this is basically right so far. The problem is, the dialogue party doesn't even reach 1 percent, but... [[Antal Csárdi: Hundred percent is out!]] But never mind. However, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said here by Mr Csárdi, because I do not think that he is fully aware of everything, or I would just like to add to his thoughts, in case the story is put in a different light. Obviously, amendments to all laws can be tabled, and this will, of course, happen. We will take into account the aspects of the World Heritage Area that have been raised by those who have completed these questionnaires. And I would like to make it very quiet, Mr President, that it is possible to laugh with Mrs Pototacska that people want their own property, but I think that we should work on making it a reality, not laughing at them in their desires. The congressman said that ten thousand people would have filled this out. I don't know how you know it, but the Castle has 850 apartments, and up to 850 people could have filled this... [[Antal Csárdi: This bill, Congressman, is not about 800 apartments!]] So once again, if you were talking about the amendment, and you were talking about ten thousand people filling out the questionnaire that we had filled out, I said at the beginning that we had asked for this questionnaire for tenant apartments in District I tenants to be filled out by more than 500 people living in apartments in District I. Within the Castle there are 850 apartments and outside the Castle there are 300-400. So at least... the congressman said we were saying horse-zung here. The congressman kept saying horse-zungs, constantly trying to beat political foam on this matter. [[Antal Csárdi: Is the apartments in the Castle really the only ones in this bill? No!]] To be honest, Congressman, the sad and disappointing thing is that you assisted in the election of the mayor who cheated his constituents and didn't tell them the truth. In fact, not only did he assist, but he kept hanging up on him, and never once did he speak up when this mayor, by the way, tried to drag his own tenants, humiliate them, and force them into a set of conditions, which apparently meant that many people would have to abandon their rentals. That's what you did! He didn't stand up for them. Now he's puffing all kinds of voices around here, by the way. I'm sorry, Congressman, you didn't do anything about this. I met hundreds of these people, I listened to what they said, and six months ago, we started working on this case. [[Antal Csárdi presents a document: Did you manage to do that?]] Unfortunately, Congressman, even if you're trying to talk about something else, you didn't do it. But we will carry out the mayor's promises, unlike you, unlike the mayor's lady, and we will allow people who have waited 30 years to buy their apartment to do so. [[Antal Csárdi: But not those who have been waiting for five years!]] For the slides, we need to clear up a few things. Real estate.com appeared perhaps two weeks ago, because of the case, an analysis of the fact that the leases, the indefinite leases throughout Budapest, but also in Szeged, affect the metropolitan areas as well, according to the data found on the property.com. There it came out that practically the purchase price of the leases is between 40 and 60 percent of the value of the property's sales. In other words, and this is certainly true, especially for the Castle, if someone wanted to move from the Castle or move from the I. district and lived in such a rent apartment, called a condo, he had only one opportunity to sell this lease. Obviously, the law stipulated that it was necessary to change real estate, but the cost of the transaction itself was between 40 and 60 percent of the turnover. Therefore, what the Member says is not true, so whoever moved in there had to pay very serious sums to do so. [[Antal Csárdi: He knew he was buying rent!]] And the other is that I had a family in Zugló who were crying and told me that their children had grown up and traded their apartments for a castle house because parents had a dream of living there once in a lifetime. They traded their apartment in Zugló, their own apartment for the rent in the castle, and two years later they were confronted with the fact that, by the way, your ally, your mayor, with your consent and knowledge, wants to destroy and destroy the value that they have crouched their entire lives. This is outrageous, Congressman. Oh, and, yes, the social issue. The original proposal is also about 105,000 apartments, and you are talking nonsense about this matter. The original proposal, which is now before Parliament, concerns 60 percent of this, and it is also a lie, Congressman. In addition, 40 percent of the remaining ones are likely to be used. So the fact that people cannot get housing here because this proposal would be adopted is not true! [[Antal Csárdi: Nothing has been understood!]] The guarantees requested by District I to consider the World Heritage Area or the Castle in Buda are hopefully to be read or read by the congressman. [[Antal Csárdi: When it's public and not in your pocket!]] We will present it in the framework of an amendment.
u2021-05-26-188	Congressman Csárdi, listen to the author. Thank you.
u2021-05-26-189	Thank you, Mr. President. The other part is social sensitivity. You're just saying how socially sensitive you have to be. [[Antal Csárdi: Not just on paper!]] help those who get into trouble, get young people to live at home. Your ally dropped the 23-year-old boy from his apartment in District I a year ago, whose father died, who paid 86 grand. Now he's got the same apartment for his buddies for $25,000. Congressman, perhaps you should be informed before you cut, and rather you should be a partner in helping those people to represent and represent the 1st Company, what you have been elected to do. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-26-190	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, A general debate on the proposal on the coordination of defence and security activities will follow until closure. The government referral T/16221. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister for Defence Tibor Benkő, the author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. [[20.40]]
u2021-05-26-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I will start the general debate of the bill on the coordination of defence and security activities with the current, but most of all the thoughts that need to be taken into account:, Only the greatest force can do nothing, I can say, not much: and to the combined forces, the impossible is often possible. Then he went on to say, "What's a drop of water worth? But united drops per million are a shocking force. So far, the quote. If you think about it, this is what is needed today in a special legal order or in an extraordinary situation, because for the sake of the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people, cooperation, coordination of state and social protection activities is the 21st. In view of the security challenges of the century, it is not only a timely but essential requirement. Whether it is industrial or natural disasters, incidents with or without arms, security challenges coming from inside or outside cyberspace. There is no question that the fundamental requirement can be that the State can handle the threat event as quickly as possible, by full localisation, by the most flexible and coordinated use of the forces and means available. At the same time, it is essential to ensure the fundamental order of the functioning of society in a way that will influence or restrict the daily lives of citizens as little as possible. We can say that we are lucky, because the Hungarian people have not suffered an armed conflict in our country since 1956. However, I ask you not to allow this in our humanity and vigilance to deceive mankind and rock us into that false dream that everything around us is in perfect order, that world peace has finally arrived. Looking at our narrower area is enough to establish that there has been armed conflict in our neighbourhood, namely the Western Balkans and Ukraine, for 17 years out of the 32 years since the Republic's declaration in 1989. In fact, the countries concerned have not been able to return to peaceful daily life in a reassuring way after years. Unfortunately, however, we can observe in the world almost every day how fragile and fragile peace and security are. For this reason, the security challenges, risks and threats ahead of us are a new challenge. NATO honestly and openly states that Europe is affected by threats from the east and the south, as from 2013 Europe's security environment has changed so much and so dynamicly, namely: the consequences of the Arab Spring, the mass illegal migration wave, the conflicts in Ukraine and the events of the hybrid warfare that preceded them, the new series of terrorist attacks in Europe and the opportunities for security and crime in cyberspace due to the development of information technology have led to a new era change. The latter appeared in the world as a risk and threat to the extent that NATO declared the cyberspace as an operating space after land, airspace, oceans and space. But let us not only look at the challenges of protection and security beyond the borders or from outside, because if we look back only for the last ten years, unfortunately, we are still abounding in domestic events where coordinated public and social cooperation was needed in order to protect and secure people's lives. Remember the Red Sludge Disaster in the area of Colontar and Devecser in 2010, the consequences of the extreme weather caused by the snow on 15 March 2013, the same year in the entire range of the domestic area of the Danube, the highest flood of Danube in the last hundred years, the mass illegal migration in 2015 or the coronal virus epidemic that lasted for more than a year. As you can see, we have abounded in events where the safety of the country and of the people had to be served. At the same time, we have seen that in each of the previously mentioned defences, in parallel with the management of crises, in case of case-by-case event follow-up, the legislator reacted by means of legislative amendments, government regulations or decisions, i.e. there was no regulatory framework for the planning, organisation of cases, coordinated exercise of crisis management, the preparation of public and non-state actors and citizens for such cases in advance. Although, in the years following the regime change in 1989, the Hungarian Parliament established a legislative framework in which the pillars of the protection of the country were based on the strong and inaccessible separation of tasks and powers of state organisations, including the Hungarian Defence Office, but retained, in line with the post-cold war international situation, the main characteristic of peace and non-peace period separation, i.e. it has become obsolete today, inadequate to deal with the risks involved. With the draft law that we have just tabled, our aim is to use flexibility to create the possibility of preparing, in advance, both the forces, organisations and actors involved in the defence and the citizens to know and address any security challenges affecting them. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, A number of national and international security policy analyses have preceded the presentation of the proposal before us. Among these, I would like to highlight the report by the NATO Secretary-General in 2020, which mentions that the main security challenges are not just armed conflicts. [[20.50]] At the same time, it stresses that today's challenges include the Covid-19-pandemic situation and not only the direct or indirect effects of the virus, as the objective that we are about to face is to ensure that the health emergency does not become a security crisis. Furthermore, we can see more aggressive action by some states, or international terrorism, and an increasing number of cyber attacks, to name just a few. The Secretary-General's report also highlights the need for an integrated approach to resilience in the future, following a wide range of security threats. Therefore, at international and allied level, serious studies and investigations are under way at the 21st century. to develop responses to the protection challenges of the 20th century. Within NATO's scientific circles, it is being researched that a counter-interested party is targeting the internal weak, vulnerable points of another state, its administration based on its legal regulations, the possible cumbersomeness and shortcomings of its public organizational elements, with a view to paralyzing and destroying its central function without a weapon, i.e. a traditional war. Here comes the place, role and task of hybrid warfare, and the resulting preparation for defense against it, as well as the creation and exercise of the conditions of coordinated, coordinated leadership. I should mention here one of the priority instruments for hybrid warfare and how it is applied, namely operations in cyberspace, as outlined by the Secretary-General. With the adoption of this bill, this House can complement the sector-specific operation of the so far domestic and law enforcement sector with the frameworks of effective cooperation to replace local government coordination and sectoral separation. This is accompanied by the strengthening of society's preparedness and security awareness, which is a task ahead of us. The ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and this draft law lay the basis for a defence and security reform, on which a coordinated development of each sector can be built in the coming years, due to the foreseeable changes in technology and the safety environment. To this end, this proposal builds on both regulatory and crisis management experience in recent years, an increasingly comprehensive national security approach in the transatlantic region, NATO's efforts to develop so-called national resilience, and its national and foreign scientific analyses. The purpose of this draft law is therefore the so-called comprehensive approach, its foundation and its introduction in order to protect Hungary and guarantee national security. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Efficient crisis management is an essential condition for the existence of a rapid capacity to adapt to changed circumstances in a very short period of time. In view of this, due emphasis has been put on ensuring the conditions for adaptation at individual and overall social level. The proposal would therefore regulate, in a comprehensive approach, the preparation for and the fight against security challenges by providing for guarantee rules on fundamental rights. In view of this state defence mechanism, the characteristics of the guarantee rule are primarily the necessity and proportionality, as well as the commitment to purpose, as well as the most important control role of legality, Parliament and the Constitutional Court. The proposal follows European and allied defence preparation directions and seeks to lay the legal foundations for so-called national resilience. National resilience is a set of capabilities based on overall social preparation and its management, which ensure a harmonised use of existing capabilities in order to prevent or reduce the effects of the threat. In a manner consistent with NATO cooperation rules, the bill seeks to ensure in more detail the various aspects of cooperation with the bodies of the European Union than the current rules. In addition to the general procedural obligation of defence and security planning to transpose EU planning practice, the data protection and classified data management rules of the proposal also serve the interoperability of the EU. The preparation of economic activity has been established taking into account the security procurement framework of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Annex XII is replaced by the following: Chapter III provides links to intergovernmental and Commission decision-making in view of the shared crisis management powers of the institutions of the European Union. Dear Parliament, We all know that in the state's setting up of our country, the executive authority is represented by the current government. I would like to emphasise this in view of the fact that the entry into force of the proposal ahead will be the second half of 2023 over the current government cycle. The Government therefore does not intend to influence the current cycle with this proposal, but also to provide the next government with reasonable time preparation, given that the protection of its citizens is a total social, national matter and the responsibility of the government at all. Last December, the amendment of the Fundamental Law was amended by Article XXI. It has already laid the foundations for addressing new types of crises and hybrid threats in the last century, but the redesign of the effective implementation of defence and security tasks should start immediately. In other words, Hungary and its legislators have arrived at a rapid, professional and effective response to security challenges and a milestone in the development of crisis management rules. The adoption of this bill will contribute to strengthening individual and overall social security, increasing people's sense of security and ultimately guaranteeing effective security as much as possible. [[21.00]] I therefore ask you to think and decide on this important issue, such as the fundamental issue of the safety of people and the country, not on party policy, but on defence and security policy principles and tasks, because the protection of the country and the security of our citizens, the security of the Hungarian people, I believe, is our common concern. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-26-192	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-193	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has been a free, democratic, peaceful country for 32 years. Of these 32 years, however, 17 years are in which an armed conflict affects one of the countries directly adjacent to us. The Ukrainian crisis is currently underway, and the tensions following the South Slavic war are still being felt to this day. There is almost no neighbouring state whose borders have not changed somewhat in recent decades. During the last third of these 32 years, we have experienced an ever-increasing migration crisis. In this context, a terrorist wave swept through Western Europe, which went all the way to Vienna. And in the present, we are struggling with a global epidemic that has crippled the world economy, and has brought a great deal of difficulties to our country. The situation is so serious that we had to introduce a special legal order, which has hardly been the case in the last three decades. Why am I saying all this? In recent years, it has become increasingly evident that the structures, the laws which are intended to guarantee the protection and security of Hungary, need to be considered and reformed. Last time the challenges of the coronal virus epidemic highlighted the need for a clear but sufficiently flexible definition of tasks and responsibilities, and action plans to enable the necessary measures to be taken as quickly as possible. The reform process has already begun with the latest amendment of the Fundamental Law. In 2023, changes in the Constitution that are linked to the transformation of our defence structure will enter into force and until then the correction of sectoral legislation will have to be implemented. The bill before us actually provides the framework for this transformation. The Minister presented the details of the bill, but there was already a discussion before the submission, in which we received detailed information on the content of the proposal. Therefore, I would just like to highlight the most important details. I am also doing this because the bill contains several chapters that we already know from other laws. At present, for example, the rules on cases of exceptional legal order can be found both in the Defence Act and in the Disaster Protection Act, but are not in line with each other. I referred to such coherence disorders when I spoke about the need to reform structures for the protection and security of our country. The bill before us in this area, for example, establishes a comprehensive regulatory framework that eliminates the contradictions so far and gives more flexible powers than current ones in order to protect them as quickly and effectively as possible. Given the extreme speed of escalation of the various crises in today's environment, there may not be any need to explain why the approach introduced by the bill is better than the present one. But let us get to the whole new elements of the system, of which I would like to highlight two. One is the institution of coordinated defence activities. This new instrument would also allow for the introduction of specific rules for a limited period of time in peace which, under the current rules, can only be applied in a narrow sector, such as in the event of a crisis caused by a health crisis or by mass immigration, or in a special legal order. This ability is important on the one hand because of speed, and on the other hand it is able to take better account of the principles of gradualness and necessity. Sudden crises in public require crisis management measures which are different from normal functioning, but which do not necessarily require the publication of a special legal order. Let me give you a brief example of this. In 2023, cases of special legal order are already changing, and the terrorist situation is no longer part of our legal order. In response to a terrorist attack, we will no longer have to introduce a special legal order for a few days or weeks. A quick decision can be taken to take immediate action, while there is time to assess the evolution of the situation in parallel with the defence, to consider the need for further measures, such as emergency situations or emergency situations. Such a system, which is built and functioning, can not only provide a faster and more accurate response to the dangers already known, but also to situations that have not been experienced before. Another new element, which I would like to briefly mention and which will also contribute to the most effective implementation of security and security measures, is the central body of defence and security management. The challenges of the coronal virus crisis currently make it clear that our defence system must be strengthened from an administrative and organisational point of view. In particular, in the event of an unexpected, rapid emergency, there is no time to deal with who is the competent body for the decision or for the performance of the various tasks. In addition, there is an increasing chance of situations requiring complex solutions, which calls for better coordination between the bodies responsible for the internal and external security of the State, the armed and police bodies and the civilian authorities. Thanks to the preliminary seven-party consultation on the bill, we have also been informed of certain details of the structure and functioning of the administrative body. I am sure that this important, new element of our future defence and security system will be able to perform effectively, solve the tasks of governance and coordination and preventative preparation. [[21.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, CHAPTER XXI The security challenges of the 20th century and the rapidly changing environment require the creation of new frameworks that are able to ensure the functioning of the defence and security system in a flexible and transparent manner, in peace and in a period of special legal order. The bill before us can be considered to be precisely the first and most important element of such a system of rules. The system outlined in the proposal will be able to provide a framework for the preparation and preparation of public bodies at the same time and to define in the most flexible way possible a catalogue of measures, the means of which can be used by eligible bodies at a time of threat to the security of our country in order to protect them. Studying and listening to the proposal, the Minister's current information is becoming increasingly visible about the flexible and rapid system of security, which cannot be delayed only because of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-194	Thank you. I now give the floor to László György Lu-kács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Fellow Members! There is no doubt about what the Minister and the Fidesz lead speaker before me have said that the 21st edition of the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of In fact, the century has put countries to new challenges, no matter what their ability to defend, there are completely new and new challenges ahead of them, to which it is really important that a country responds quickly and in time; and I can safely say that from the very first moment of the outbreak of the corona virus epidemic, I do not say that I have had the chance, So that would be a minimum justification, and it was a warning signal that the epidemic pointed out that our defence, our defence system, really needed to be improved. And when it comes to what needs to be done and how to be improved, we should not go along with the fact that we were actually invited to a multi-party meeting, which we could not, for our part, go to; we thanked you very much for the invitation, but we thought that it might not be the time now, despite the epidemic, that it might not have been possible to do so in that epidemiological state. We had hoped that there would be a longer discussion in this, but we took note that the wallet was finished with it, and this was done by the Fundamental Law, let's say, by taking its step-by-step and taking the matter further. But what we continue to think is that it is not certain and it is not very fortunate that we solve such an important issue by putting into effect a future government, whether it is the government, which is otherwise composed of the current pro-government representatives and pro-government members, or which is otherwise composed of the opposition, so that we will essentially conclude their hands with certain measures, and by means of a rule of law that has now been passed, we will settle a series of protection measures for a long time; in particular, the very large part of the provisions that will be really important will be reflected in the implementing regulations, and we will learn a lot of background rules or rules from the implementing regulations, even though many parts of the legislation currently provide for and combine the areas by integrating existing institutions known for civil protection in essence into the present proposal, or otherwise building on existing capacities and previously known legal institutions. I therefore believe that the epidemic has shown that there is a need to develop an uneven defence capability and that there really were not too flexible measures before. That really forced the country to take a step. As I said, the regulation does indeed integrate the civil protection system, and it also brings a uniform regulation of parallel economic and material service obligations in the defence and disaster management legislation. For me, it was new though, I looked into it, there was a legal institution to make it a kind of reporting obligation, the 19th. This is the case in Section 5 of the Act on Public Order and Public Security, and there is a notification obligation in relation to a serious and violent disturbance. As a former practicing lawyer, I can't imagine how this is essentially going to go, or since I haven't read the sanction in this regard, I can't really guess what the consequences or sanctions will be in the event of failure to do so. If I understand correctly, this will rather be a failure or failure to fulfil the obligations of the persons in whom, I think, or their job obligation or any other legislation installs the fact that they must report such an event, but I have only indicated or noted this as interesting to myself. It is also clear that in the fourth part, and perhaps this is the most problematic, and I have also looked at this with a lawyer's eye very hard to determine how the extraordinary legal order and the extraordinary situations and changes in the legal order in which general and fundamental constitutional rights are in some way restricted, whether it be legislation, whether it is the operation of the municipality or, by the way, the exercise of personal freedoms and subjective rights. It is always very difficult to do the right thing, because, although the law says the proportionate and necessary standard, which is quite rightly the case-law of the Republic of Hungary, Hungary and its constitution, the Fundamental Law and the Constitutional Court and the courts, and it is often the case law, and it may now be in the law that a proportionate and necessary standard has to be followed in all cases, though, remember that in the midst of the epidemic, there were actors, who were very important in defence measures, who did not respect the requirement of proportionality, necessity, but, for example, mayors who could not guess well that they had the opportunity to take a full salary from someone and retain their own, or raise it. We didn't just see this on the pro-government side as a bad example of how the mayors were lost in this. So here, with the need for proportionality and necessity, I always see such a danger, especially when in a very intense situation, in a defence situation, the possibility of a decision is concentrated in a very narrow, very narrow circle of people. What may not be mentioned in the proposal, and this must take place in a much broader context, and it must be seen in vain that if we develop a defence capability, if the Hungarian state or Hungary, or the people who make up the country, or the people who make up the nation, do not think so, nor does it appear on the government that we not only create the ability to defend ourselves, but instead avoid the situations in which our ability to defend ourselves must actually be used. I can think here that, in the long term, the government, even if we are talking about climate change and migration, should follow a long-term strategy in which it can alleviate the problems, challenges or omissions in the field of climate protection, so that we do not cause so much damage, so that we do not have such an exodus in the world in the damage caused by developed countries in general, in terms of climate protection, so that Hungary should become a champion of climate-friendly developments, essentially climate protection, because this is also part of our ability to reduce it so that we do not need our defence capabilities, which are otherwise created for an emergency or special legal order. But we could also say, and this is again another context, that our commitment to foreign affairs, that is, how Hungary deals with its own system of allies or with non-Allies systems, might result in no target on the back of Hungary at the expense of cybercrime or other influences. So we also know whether it's the Russian or the Chinese approach, or the relationship with the Western allies, it's obviously not an easy question, I don't know how to say it... It was an old Swahili proverb, and by the way, it was in an American book called United States Foreign Policy Towards Africa, and by the way, many people attribute it to an Eastern proverb, but, I tell you, Swahili was not good to be a weed where elephants fight. [[21.20]] So, Hungary is in a very difficult situation, but if it targets itself from an external point of view, then it can surely become the victim of the otherwise extremely complex situation in Central Europe that we have seen and have been talking about, and in recent decades it has often resulted in a war or war situation. Overall, I can say that there have been a lot of concerns, even at expert level, about the bill itself. I'm curious to hear the other people's arguments. Obviously Jobbik will define, hearing the expo, hearing the pro-government contributions and otherwise other expert concerns about how to deal with this legislation. It is clear that some flexibility will have to be represented by the Hungarian defence system, and that is what the challenges of the past period and the future will certainly trigger. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]]
u2021-05-26-196	Thank you. The opinion of the KDNP Group is presented by Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-197	Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Before I get to the bill, allow me to thank the Minister for his support for the Hungarian soldiers during the epidemic situation, as we have been able to meet the soldiers on numerous occasions in an unusual and unusual task, either at the points of fire or in connection with the various logistical tasks, in border protection, when they were involved in police patrols. So we would also like to thank the Hungarian Defence Forces through Minister for their position and ask that both their attention be kept on the southern border and on the epidemic situation, but that they continue to protect the safety and health of the Hungarian people. We'll thank them from here. The current bill before us is the result of a nearly two-year preparatory work, including an evaluation of international models. Before submitting the bill, Hungary's defence minister, representing the government, invited the leaders of the parliamentary groups to hold seven-party consultations to express their views on the bill that is important for the country's security and future, to express their criticism and to discuss their possible disagreement. At this meeting, only the Fidesz and KDNP fractions represented themselves, and the left had no opinion or did not consider it important to go to the very important issues concerning the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people, this is not an important issue for you. Neither Jobbik, MSZP, DK, LMP or Dialogue participated in the negotiations. We know what the left did to the military before 2010 [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai intervenes]] And that's why, among other things... I'll tell you later, Congresswoman. This is why, among other things, it was important to say no to left-wing defence policy in 2010 and to continue to expand and develop defence and budgetary resources. If there was a general debate on the 2022 budget last week, then we can say or say there that all the necessary resources will still be available for defence and public security purposes in 2022, and that the amount of funds available for defence will increase by 23 percent in a year, and will rise to more than HUF 912 billion. This also means that defence spending has quadrupled since 2010. To whom what is important, priorities are shown in the budget. Law enforcement spending reaches HUF 991 billion, which represents an increase of approximately HUF 542 billion, two and a half times compared to 2010. The 2022 budget will provide an opportunity to continue the ongoing developments under the Programme for Defence and Force Development, to modernise military technology and to improve the equipment and accommodation conditions of personnel. That was the budget you said to Klara Dobrev that you wanted to grind. The entry into force of the law in 2023 ensures that this task is a long-term defence and security perspective across governments. The aim is to ensure that the XXI. A viable, life-like, flexible and responsive regulatory framework for the new types of security challenges of the 20th century and the rapidly changing international environment will be created that can ensure the functioning of the defence and security system in a flexible and transparent manner, both in peace and in the special legal order period. CHAPTER XXI A satisfactory response to the new types of security challenges of the 20th century could not be addressed by the 20th century. a review of the legislative environment building on the security situation of the 20th century, without updating it. At the same time, the new rules provide a framework for the preparation and preparation of public bodies and, in the most flexible way possible, without prejudice to the guarantee frameworks, define a catalogue of measures which the competent bodies may call for protection under a special legal order. On the one hand, the change in the security environment requires an assessment of the experience of previous decisions and a comparison of them with international models, on the other hand, a systematic review and modernisation of the crisis management, the special legal order and the security and security regulations, based on last year's amendment of the Fundamental Law. The current bill is therefore the implementation of the amendment of the basic law voted on by Parliament last year, which is largely already regulated by existing institutions, which can now be coordinated in one place by Parliament. The bill regulates institutions, which are basically known now, where this is justified by the nature of the task, instead of unnecessarily parallel sectoral regulations, some institutions are represented in one place. In our opinion, the bill strengthens the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people, and the KDNP fraction will therefore support it. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Simon Miklós applauds.]]
u2021-05-26-198	Thank you. Our next speaker was Tamás Harangozó, who presented the opinion of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-26-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament! Dear Minister, Compared to the weight of the law and its impact on people, the atmosphere here in the room is a little familyy. And I'm saying that even though we didn't go to the non-seven-party, but we didn't go to the seven-party meeting. I am glad to hear that this law has been being prepared for two years, and I am more than happy to hear it, because last November 10th, on the night of the publication of the emergency, I was able to submit to this Parliament the amendment of the basic law, according to which the law to be negotiated could have been considered at all. So if they've been preparing this for two years, I don't know if that coup d'état amendment to the law has been carved, or maybe it's been done a little sooner than that. I wouldn't be surprised, given the quality of it. A lot of times the word "flexicurity" has been said, and the word " framework legislation" has been spoken many times. Just know, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal is not a proposal for flexible retirement or working at home office, or for flexible regulation of part-time rules, but a stone-hard package of public law with very, very serious consequences, the object of which is the management of Hungary's armed, police and secret services bodies, and its management, on the one hand, during an extraordinary legal order, as we hear, will be so flexible that, even in an exceptional period outside the legal order, the management, management, application and, on the other hand, a proposal which fundamentally affects the private property, private freedom and the property of private companies is also a matter of concern for the kind citizens. When we are talking about people's privacy, private property, freedom or the restriction of private companies, state seizure and use of them in a bill, I think that, at least in Parliament, the first thing that should come to mind is not necessarily the word "flexicurity" in the first place. Of course, we're not the same in this. But I think that if people saw, knew and understood what was in this proposal, many would be horrified. But if this is a framework, then tell us, Minister, or the present pro-government representatives, what the framework of what will be completed. So we are talking about a public-law package, which would indeed fundamentally rearrange the defence and security environment of Hungary and the possibility of governance within it, and I say once again, imposing a great burden, partly imposing on the citizens themselves, or even on private companies, that it is only appropriate to know what the details of this will be. The Minister says that by 1 January 2023, until the entry into force of the Fundamental Law, obviously this proposal will have to be filled with content until the entry into force of this proposal. [[21.30]] But with what? What's the direction? At all, if they've been working on this for two years, I'm guessing they've been working on that for a while. It's only fair to know that one should judge that this paper meets with the intention that one could possibly agree with. But when, in this proposal, the government can announce a certain new situation for three months at any time, and it is up to it to hold it for three months or 48 months, is it not, in principle, to say the least, to pass a cycle, but rather to be decided by the government in this proposal. We didn't hear anything about the defense management center either. Mr. Secretary, I'd be interested to know if it's a strategic material, if it's about the future, tell me what this bill is about, by the way. Well, what's gonna change? What is a defence administration centre compared to what is today? Who's gonna drive that? Who's gonna be responsible? Will it be defence, which in such situations will act and be responsible, or is it internal affairs, law enforcement? Where will the Minister of the Interior be? Where's the place for disaster management? Where's Homeland Security entering? Or will the Prime Minister be running this every single time? It doesn't matter, whatever concept you've come up with, just say a few words about it other than what's written here, because none of this is ever gonna come out. That would be a very interesting conceptual debate in the 21st century. Because of the challenges of the 20th century, in emergency situations prior to emergency situations, whether this is a medical, viral or other emergency, this could be a elemental disaster, disaster, what new tools we can use, otherwise within the government, who needs to deal with who has the knowledge and technical equipment. Everyone can see that in the current situation, it is the Ministry of Interior's disaster management organisation, which is supposed to be anointed for this, and technically it has a lot of capabilities. But the reason we see it in floods, in Colontars, everywhere else is that there is a point, even in situations outside the war, when the military has to enter, because he has all those big tanks and all his soldiers and the living power of the sandbags and more. It's okay. But he was talking about it, or why it doesn't tell us what they want to do about it. They're putting someone on top of it, and the same thing goes on, but there's gonna be someone else between the government and the prime minister who's gonna put it all on the same table, or is there some conceptual suggestion that civil defense, disaster protection, will have a long-term fate? Will the defense forces be conducted by the other, the Homeland section, or is this new headquarters, or is it in your head that civil defense is returned to the military, or even disaster control? It's worth talking about, because sooner or later, this case obviously has something to do with it. There are a lot of reasons, and besides, there's no way to drag the government left and right. I see so much in this proposal, and I am obviously told by the experience of the last 11 years, and I see as much of it as we see in their treatment of the current emergency, that you are very fond of it, and are very much in love with this crisis situation caused by mass immigration, which is now, I don't know, extended for the sixth year as such a quasi-extraordinary legal order. They fell in love with this emergency thing, because the Prime Minister can rewrite anything with a decree at any time. They fell in love with the new reality, which is really extremely flexible, that everything can be modified by the government with the right aim, in the necessary and proportionate way. But in this proposal, Minister, who decides what is necessary and proportionate outside the government? I know that you here, as I've heard, emphasized that the responsibility for enforcement is for the government. But the government is not the main authority in this country, Minister, but this institution where you are now. This is what gives the government trust and mandate, or even distracts it during a cycle by drawing a pen. This institution, which was not an accident in the Constitution as an appropriate control, as a brake for the introduction or maintenance of any exceptional legal order. In this material, every three months, the government will extend this new legal institution, quasi-emergency, for as long as it wants. And then what they can do to whom and what they can do with it, they'll explain it in some next law or regulation, and people will have a heart attack there, saying, oh, my God, that's us again. Of course, in the rule of law, flexible rules can be established with appropriate brakes and counterweights. As I mentioned, one such certainty is that the Hungarian National Assembly, which is exterminated from this material, as the Fundamental Law has been wiped out even in the event of war. Well, what national case is it when during a war you are not willing to put all the political forces elected by the Hungarian people individually, but at the same time, at the same time, at the same table to defend your country? Well, what kind of attitude is that? ! What do you think of this country and the people who live here? To say only the last election, with their large two-thirds mandate, 48 or 49, or I don't know how much two-thirds of them sat here in Parliament, with 2.5 to 3 million votes out of 10, and then their reaction is that in the most national, most sacred case, the legal institution that is grateful to God was only theoretically involved in the Fundamental Law for now, that in the event of war, everyone should sit at a table and cooperate in the defense of their country, this is actually being wiped out by a pen, just to make sure that everyone understands where its place is, and what they think of this country and the world. It's outrageous! And after that, yeah, I'll tell you the other half, yeah, in a rule of law, in a normal country, there's another control over such rubber rules, for example, like doing what we want in terms of necessity and proportionality, that's the Constitutional Court. But how can we believe anything you say, Minister, and my fellow Members of the Fidesz, when there is still an emergency in Hungary? And when they dare to do that, they can't hold a political demonstration until 14 June, because it's just as long as Parliament, but you can run around without a mask and go to disco and party, but you can't give a political opinion? Well, according to today's rules, a normal Constitutional Court should have cut out this emergency after the Prime Minister's announcement last Friday as it is, because in terms of necessity and proportionality, it is nonsense to maintain this legal order today in Hungary. And then let us believe that this framework, this flexible, good framework, will indeed only serve the interests of the Hungarian people and not the interests of the Hungarian people again, because a significant part of this material is the obligation to provide economic and material services, for example, and its regulation. That as a soldier, as an ex-military, as a defense minister, he would come here in good spirits and abundance and present the bill, the essence of which I do not know how many times it is written that, in these extraordinary situations, the defense minister will have nothing to do with these matters, and he is no longer involved in these matters, but that the Minister of Internal Affairs will do things here in the event of emergency and war? What, Minister? ! In the beginning, what's going on here is that the Department of Defense has nothing to do with the thousand billion-dollar defense procurement, and that the ITM is doing everything and a certain government commissioner, and they're not asking the soldiers what to buy, but I think they're going to go to the right-left, split, which is the best smart one to buy, they're going to buy, Turkish this, German that, American that, Norwegian I don't know what. And that the case is not clear, and that their conscience is not clear, we can't better show that the members of the Defence and Police Committee are sitting here, the opposition representatives are all sitting here, we never know anything, they don't show it, they don't boast about it, we can't even in a closed session know what you're up to because I don't think you have any idea what you're up to. Then Mr Maróth and Palkovic will send you a text and tell you what kind of missile system or what tanks we're going to be buying. Amazing! And that's what comes out of the law. I don't think that's normal. I think the Minister of Defense, the Ministry of Defence and the soldiers should also return this professional control, and if it's up to us, they will get it back after next year's elections, so if the people think that this little nanny they've made for 12 years, it's going to be enough. [[21.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal is therefore incomprehensible to us and cannot be supported in any way. Without the rules of execution or detail, once again, it's incomprehensible. What we read out of it, unfortunately, is the need for flexibility, but with no control of any kind, we still have such a 21st world view. It is not acceptable in dangerous circumstances of the century. Now, I want you to put a device in the hands of the government, but you need to guard the guards. In the last hundred years, this country has shown a few times how strong-handed leaders will eliminate all controls and burn this country, and more often this continent. We don't want to assist in such actions. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-26-200	Thank you. I give the floor to Agnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-26-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed a very family atmosphere, and even in the midst of this family atmosphere, I am surprised to have MPs stand up here and talk about what alas, what a XXI. There are centuries of challenges. Fellow Members! There have been challenges in every century. We know precisely that the challenges that are here in Europe today or here in the world have been challenges in previous centuries, but, there has also been an epidemic, terrorism, unfortunately, there have also been wars and conflicts. It is absolutely true, in the last thirty years, he has, fortunately, avoided Hungary. But this country not only existed in a nuclear way, obviously, but also watched the surrounding events. Obviously, as it was mentioned in the general justification of the bill, and on the basis of which I have noticed that Congressman Simon has given his speech as a keynote speaker, so these challenges were here. I think that there is no debate between us that it is worth developing a system that is not the new type because these are not so new types of challenges, we have already encountered them, but whether the country can respond quickly and effectively to the challenges of a new form of appearance by maintaining democratic control. Because the biggest problem with this bill is that it is about a lot of things, it defines a lot of things very meticulously, it is democratic control that is lacking in it. I listened carefully to both the ministerial expo and the keynote speeches from the pro-government side, although, frankly, Congressman Nacsa may have surprised me a little bit, because he has brought up topics that are not exactly related here, but I will respond to them. But if we look at this bill, then one thing certainly didn't appear to me in the keynote speeches, and this is precision about the special world of legal order. Mr. Secretary. I accept that there is something that cannot be regulated by a law, and I do not think that there is a debate between us. But basic democratic control, the basic constitutional conditions for citizens must be legally and accurately there. That's the accuracy I'm extremely lacking in the bill. I would say that, compared to what kind of law it is, there are quite a lot of wording and even misunderstanding. Basically, the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law was the starting point, which led, say, the government and the representatives of the government to bring about the laws in this regard, since the fundamental laws required for the Fundamental Law. The first problem started when they forgot to talk to us about this amendment to the basic law. So, if we and our voters were considered part of the country, then it would have been expected that we would have been consulted on specific legal issues in general. As others have said here, there is no pro-government and opposition in such a special legal situation. If there's a problem, we need to sit at a table. You know, at the beginning of the epidemic, this one table seat went to. As long as the government parties, and I do not say that it is the minister or the ministry, but the political interest of pro-government politicians, has not dictated that the opposition should be pushed out of this. Ladies and Gentlemen, It should be noted that, at the moment, opposition representatives and the electoral camp behind us are part of this nation, citizens of this country, however much they do not like it. We never look upon you as non-partisans of this nation, we regard you as our political rivals. On the other hand, you exclude the opposition, opposition voters, opposition politicians from the country every single time. I think this is the wrong way. Especially in a special situation in the legal order, where, indeed, and as has been said here, Parliament is essentially eliminated. I think there's been a little mistake. So just because there is a majority of a government in Parliament, obviously this is the way it is in Hungary, the support you are talking about in a special legal situation is not automatic, and there cannot be a representative support automatically, since I assume that Parliamentary Members, at least on the opposition side, do not know that on the pro-government side, sometimes decide autonomously on certain issues. So just because someone has a pro-government majority and gives a government doesn't necessarily mean that they have a majority. That is why it is necessary that the Parliament, where, pardon, we are the people's representatives, the people's sovereignty, we are, whether they like it or not, must take these decisions and take responsibility. Mr. Secretary. We want to take that responsibility. So we're not kindergarten kids. We are elected Members of Parliament, and those who will come here in 2022 and in 26 and after, elected Members of Parliament, who represent Hungarian citizens with full authority. We are not minors, we do not need to be supervised; we need to be supervised by the government, and the people are exercising this through the Members of Parliament. I made it clear in the beginning that the wording is a negligee, and I would like to start by saying that it is already in the preamble, but then it is shown all the way, there is a problem here that I think needs to be clarified. I think that the protection and security of Hungary should develop, develop, be sustainable, developable, the individual should have a job there, and I think that is okay. There's never been a debate between us. It does not include that both in the preamble and then in all the other paragraphs Hungary and the Hungarian nation are mixed. And in the case of rules like this, it's a problem. The Hungarian nation is wider than what today means Hungary and 93,000 square kilometres, and where you can make laws. So, when you say that Hungary's defence and security is a national matter, we have often said this, so we have often listened to this, on which the survival and development of the nation is based, on the realization of community and individual rights, and therefore the legislative provisions relating to the protection and security of the Hungarian nation must be laid down in the light of this law. Mr. Secretary. This Parliament cannot create rules that make rules for the entire Hungarian nation, as I assume that we include those who live across the border, let us say, here in the Carpathian Basin, but I assume that we include the Hungarians who fled to the West. We can't make a right there. We can do it here. That's a decision to make. That's why I said it's a gown, so let's decide what we want. I think that we can legislate with regard to Hungary by clearly having a responsibility to this country, and we have never denied that we have a responsibility to the Hungarian nation. But this is a special rule of law here, and when it comes to special rules of law, then, as many of my fellow Members have pointed out, there must be very, very precise and clear. Also not quite clear to me, but obviously I'll get an explanation for the 3rd. §, in which the law determines that all these objectives or foundations, which I have listed in respect of the fundamentals of guaranteeing protection and security, there are three pillars of their enforcement and, if necessary, of Hungary's armed protection: the defence system and the Hungarian Defence Service, the law and law enforcement agencies, and the national security services. [[21.50]] I'm not comfortable with this armed defense. We don't use armed and law enforcement workers and bodies for nothing. We make a very clear distinction between these systems. While I understand what you are talking about, I am not sure that I agree with you in all respects, because in Hungary and in a large part of the democratic countries, control of these bodies is extremely important, while cooperation is also important. I think that's what a lot of organizations have been set up for in the last few years, but with regard to armed defense, I'd like to be more precise again. Hungary's armed organ is the Hungarian Defence Service, the other law enforcement agencies, and the imprecise wording with such a look is where one then says that if in the preamble, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 have such inaccuracies, then what happens in all the other paragraphs. I know that this bill was not developed simply by the defence wallet, because the Prime Minister's Office had a say in this, as far as I know, but it will be corrected, the former Minister of State for Administration HM has now been involved in the development of this as Brigadier General again, as I understand it, in general rank and previously as a civilian. I think that the presence of soldiers in these matters is very important, and there should be no misunderstanding; it is very important that uniforms participate in such legislation, because they have practical experience, but it would be very important that civilians who represent not only the law enforcement, the armed and the police side, but also represent the citizens' side, because this law basically builds on the development of the security awareness of Hungarian citizens. This has never been explained to me by anyone on the part of the governing parties, what this would mean in particular, but perhaps there is no debate between us that it is really necessary to improve the security awareness of Members of Parliament, because there are huge shortcomings in that, and secondly, in the enforcement of laws, for example, in terms of security, see national security control, which is no longer worth two cents in many respects, and thirdly, of course, in talking to people and continuing to learn. I don't think there's a debate in this, but if we think that the whole system will work if the public authorities practice it and put together all kinds of scientific knowledge and teach citizens what security is, I think we're wrong. This thing will work if people feel that there is a bill here about them. There's nothing in this bill, nothing about people. There's nothing about people! When you talk about national resilience, you describe energy, transport, infocommunication, the operation of the state. These are very important things, but I do not see the Hungarian citizen anywhere, the democratic protection of the Hungarian citizen, and the problem is that I do not see the Hungarian citizen either in the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law or in the bill. I think it is a natural need for the Hungarian citizen to come if there is a problem. They also come, to be honest, we may not have bad experience in this, because if there was any natural disaster where Hungarian citizens could help, it helped in its own way. He did it during the epidemic, but the number of people coming in is small and it takes a different approach. But it's not far from me, don't get me wrong, because I've worked on this area, it's not far away, but if we really want Hungarian citizens to feel that anyone is in government, can trust them, then we have to choose another way, or we have to choose another way. This bill will thus, in this form, not serve the needs of the 21st century. There are centuries of challenges. Moreover, and this is extremely important when there is an emergency or there is such an extraordinary legal order, there is an enormous need for democratic guarantees. If I ignore what a bad experience we have, not in the context of the crisis caused by mass immigration, but, for example, in dealing with the epidemic threat, with democratic guarantees, even if I ignore it, I must say that it is terribly incomplete. To be proportionate to the impact of society, to the extent necessary, to the extent that certain issues will otherwise be defined in a regulation, will come here with certain security policy principles, but all other documents will be accepted by the government, and in this there will be things that are not public, which is the same thing that we have been going through in recent years, I have to say. It has already been said in the walls of this House, and Mr Nacsa has spoken about this in relation to the budget. In recent years, your government has asked for an exemption from public procurement of HUF 3000-4000 billion. No matter how many letters I wrote to you, Minister, every time I asked for it, I think I may have begged to see at least one of these contracts, I've always received a very nice letter with a header, but I didn't get to the defense wallet at any time to look at the contracts, the contracts for related infrastructure improvements. And that's not a problem because you and your wallet or your secretary of state don't sympathize with me, and you tell me, or Congressman Nacsa will tell you that I destroyed the army. This is wrong, because when you do this, you are not only sweeping me down, but also the Hungarian citizens behind us. What we have to do in the National Assembly and in the Police and Homeland Security Committee is to be accountable to you, and if you don't like that, that there are people who have to do this, then you simply have to leave the chair, hand it over to someone who won't be embarrassed or embarrassed. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-202	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent congressman. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, please.
u2021-05-26-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I had to run into this bill several times. The simplest way to sum it up, and I don't want to offend my former colleagues in the box, and I hope too many texts don't come from them, but it's a bunch of nonsense I've never seen before in defense. I have to say that in the last few weeks, before this proposal came to the House, I was just thinking that, oh, how long has it been since the defence wallet was here to present a bill here, so, see, in a few days, this non-existent legislation arrived. It is about one thing, however, that he is trying to completely exclude the entire area of defence, police and disaster protection from the control activities of the Parliament, and he is trying to establish a framework in principle, but there is only one small problem: he is in conflict with the disaster law, the Fundamental Law and the national defence law. Therefore, only these three are contrary to this framework. And I imagine the situation where they should be applied, and then they run up and down because they don't know which of the same level of legislation running side by side in the hierarchy should now apply. I will tell you frankly that I imagined the government meeting that the Minister had taken the initiative of this proposal, and he tried to make Prime Minister believe that this was extremely necessary, because if this House did so, then he would really do what he wanted to do if a defence situation arose, and I think Prime Minister was very pleased that such a crowd of nonsense could come before the House in order to strengthen his power. I am convinced, by the way, that Prime Minister has no idea what this system of rules is about. I would like to declare that I do not want a country of pinochete or French militaristicism, and I do not want Hungarian citizens to live in such conditions. Hungarian citizens are not born in Hungary to constantly hover over their heads as the sword of Damokles, to see which government member wakes up from some sick night's dream of forcing citizens to act or behave in a manner that is in no way compatible with any kind of emergency or defence situation, simply trying to shock people. Hungarian society, you have to admit, was shocked by the coronal virus epidemic, but it was not because a virus appeared, a small cell package not visible to the eye, and hundreds of thousands of people were infected, and unfortunately more than 29 thousand of our compatriots died, not shocked society, but shocked society by what idea-based, opaque, professionally totaled! This government has implemented an invaluable epidemic treatment in this country. [[22.00]] There wasn't one sensible suggestion. They built the whole epidemic treatment on fear, uncertainty, and unpredictability. From this, we start to think in this House that such legislation will respond to these challenges and that Hungarian citizens will only be protected if such a law is passed, so this is, no offense, but you do not believe this, do you not? So let me assure you, Minister, that at least you don't believe that. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) You know, I can tell you that in the event of an attack, the Hungarian citizens will not be protected by paper, no, no! The soldier will protect you, the professional authority of the soldier, the means given to you by the soldier to create protection, the steadfast, conscientious, able to practice their profession far and high, who in the particular situation, without such a framework, can motivate citizens who may need to be in such a situation. Paper will not protect Hungarian citizens! And it is no coincidence that in the past 70 years there has been no such legislation. It was not born because there are systems of authorisation in the legislation, from the Fundamental Law to the Defense Act, which gives the perfect answer to who has what powers, what needs to be done, what citizens have to do, who works with, who cooperates with, who cooperates with. But it is also true that one thing he does not do is to completely exclude the control role of Parliament, and he is once again creating the salvation of regulation governance with this framework. But I would like to stress, Minister, that on 13 November 2018, when T/3291. Szilárd Németh presented the proposal, and he said that the title of this legislation was... the establishment of the organizational order of the Hungarian Defence Office, only this law is needed to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Office, in a defence situation, is fully aware of who's job, who's place, who's place, how they form these relations, how they can comply with the Fundamental Law, how they can comply with the professional requirements. That's what he said. We are here now, two and a half years later, and you are trying to convince the Members of Parliament that this law is necessary to ensure that the laws that have already existed are those obligations that have already existed and can now be implemented. Mr. Secretary. They had nothing to do. They hated the fact that they weren't in Parliament. One has this fever dream, taking advantage of the experience of the emergency, and they think that the Hungarian defence issue has even taken a step forward. You didn't, Minister. Last week, one of our MEPs said that he was going to throw out a law if he became a new government next year. Well, what I can tell you is that if there is a new government, then I will say that this law will surely be thrown out, because this law does not guarantee the citizens, but creates for the government systems of relations that are embedded, uncontrollable and abusive, which simply cannot be assumed by a single democratic politician, a democratic thinker. I believe that you believe that you are very serious people, and you know very well how to do defence. The great good fortune of Hungarian society is that in the past 70 years it has not been necessary to prove that. They tried it once when the Russians were called in in '56, but that's another story. It's a good thing we didn't have to see how this great confidence in the field of action would turn out. And I have to tell you, although, thank God, the simple soldier, except for one or two, tried not to disturb them where they were assigned, but I have to say that in a large part, no matter how extraordinary the results have been reported to you, you know very well that there is no basis for this, you have simply made a fool out of the soldiers who have been sent to health care facilities. They dared to make citizens and us believe that the leaders of health institutions were not fit to make decisions voluntarily and independently in such a situation, to be able to coordinate their responsibilities with other institutions, and they had to have quasi guardians... and then they were relieved that they were only there to help. Well, I'm sorry, but if there's a deficiency in the organisation of a health facility, whether it's a lack of people, a lack of authority or a lack of tools, there's a hierarchy and personnel in the healthcare system that can solve it. There was no place for any soldier there! But you guys have such a sick way of thinking that if there's a problem somewhere, you have to send a soldier. One small problem is that interestingly, when a simple citizen of certain social groups, sometimes known as hordes, attacks individuals or regularly terrorizes various vulnerable social groups, well, then soldiers do not go there to help. Now, that's the job of the police, whose authority is not nearly as generous and nearly as powerful as this proposal, and it can be seen from the disaster protection and defence laws. A hundred words end in one, this is an incompetent package of legislation. For one thing, it is indeed appropriate to be a chapter in the construction of a total militaristic state. No Democrat can afford that. There is no way in this country that existing legislation will not answer, and according to the existing framework, everyone would not know what their job is. And, by the way, I would like to stress that until you are willing to demonstrate the effectiveness of the device system, until we know that in the event of a war, there are enough soldiers, tools, authority and operational capabilities at all, if we do not know all this... because we still do not know this, Minister! We've been here in Parliament for three years, you've been a minister for three years, and you haven't shown me one skill besides the fact that military machines are very good for civilian people in the world and back and forth. So we've seen this one before, but you haven't told us that either, but we know it from other sources, but the quality of your military capabilities is being concealed along with procurements at a level that is very suspicious that it's not just a substitute act, a distraction, and a distraction from the fact that your abilities do not have the qualities that you believe either with the Prime Minister or with the people of the country or with the Members. These kind of extra actions are usually done in every system, making papers, making laws to distract attention from the point of view. Minister, you're a soldier. I wouldn't have played a role in submitting such a proposal, because if someone, you know very well that this was neither professionally nor politically necessary. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-26-204	Good evening. We will continue our work with the opportunity of a representative of DK, Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go.
u2021-05-26-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe they'll forgive me for talking a little bit more about this not-so-late hour. So, for me, the question of the army, defence, protection of the country is really important, not only politically, although here we have been critical that we did not go to the seven-party meeting, so we are not interested in that. Obviously, those representing the wallet, the wallet manager and the Prime Minister's Office know that this is not the case. This area is just as important to us, and, as has been said, it is indeed so rarely possible to discuss these matters. At committee meetings, neither very much nor, by the way, these discussions with the seven parties are never negotiations, my fellow Members, but, obviously, a communication of information to us, as opposition representatives, and perhaps also to government representatives, about what is going to happen. I think this is a topic that we should have discussed very in detail, in the past, on a professional basis, before this bill is put here. The ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law was made on 22 December last year, and we have seen or know that on 1 June 2023 the part concerning the extraordinary legal order, which reduces the number of exceptional legal cases, will enter into force. [[22.10]] In parallel, this law itself will take effect on 1 July 2023. Accepting that, of course, there is a need for preparation to carry out these tasks, and if this process has started two years ago, as has been said here, I think it would have been worth holding indeed professional, even closed, conferences in these matters to understand what the legislator is really trying to do here. Because I think that once again I would like to emphasise that there is no debate that in certain emergency, exceptional legal order cases there must be an opportunity for the current government, together with responsibility, because there are decisions that are taken by the government in accordance with the basic legislation that is still in force today, but obviously supervised by the Parliament. So, it is necessary to give a certain opportunity, in particular, when it comes to security issues for the government, but the extent of this, the extent of this quasi-power transfer, is apparently the subject of debate in this Parliament. The electoral system is, and obviously, not the defense wallet, or the soldiers working there, or those working in civil defense, or those working in disaster management, or the police, can actually get two thirds. I think that at any time in the current electoral system there may be a reverse set-up; it will be a reverse set-up, and then we will start over again. I believe that the process of bringing such a matter to the level of national affairs is to involve those involved in these negotiations. Minister did not talk about it in his expo, but perhaps when he responds to the extent to which, for example, local governments have been involved. We know to what extent opposition factions have been involved. Before the submission, we received an invitation to go and listen to your ideas, which, frankly, I didn't think on the basis of the epidemic threat that we didn't have to be there. I find this attitude incredibly humiliating and irresponsible for the nation. Because if we want continuity in these regulations and I think it's in the country's best interest to have a consensual continuity, then this cannot be done at the Prime Minister's Office, and it cannot be done only at the defence wallet. This calls for the opposition to be involved. That's exactly what the last 11 years have been about. My fellow Members, the two-thirds opportunity to change is also a responsibility. It means that it is also your job to represent one third and to incorporate one third of your opinion into these laws. You can't create a constitution, you can't push a constitution without representing your position. It is not possible to establish rules of this type, otherwise in an emergency or in an exceptional legal order, that establish civic obligations where only you are involved. We're not in it. They won't even ask us. We are talking here, and then I know that it will be said that we should put forward amendments, and I know exactly what the fate of these amendments will be. That's what's been going on in the last few years. I would therefore like to say to you and to you, Minister: if you are serious about protecting this country is a matter for all of us, then do not put forward such legislative proposals. Then invite the opposition factions, but not at the end of the process, at the beginning. As we were able to sit down at the beginning of the epidemic, and we could talk intelligently, no matter how much distance between us politically, no one should think on your side, including your colleagues here, that we are completely stupid, and that we do not know this, and that it is not important for us to protect citizens. No, it's important. We're the only ones with other perspectives. And I think that when we talk about Hungary, it is not enough to take into account only the aspects of Fidesz or KDNP, to take into account the aspects of others, even the aspects of those who do not have political representation in Parliament, because this makes the matter national. It's not a national matter that we get the letters, and we're pissed off! It's not a national matter, and it doesn't make the matter of defence and extraordinary legal order a national matter, so we can get the invitation at the last minute to come and hear you. It is not a national matter that a bill is presented here, which, by the way, we are not already very many of us, and all the others do not know what it is about. It is not a national matter, Minister, that 133 Members will push this proposal over to you, but opposition representatives, at least the real opposition representatives, will not vote for it. And not because we have a problem with you personally, that we don't like defense, obviously that's not true. We respect soldiers, too. We acknowledge the work of those who carry out their duties in accordance with their oath. The reason you can't accept this bill is because we're not in this again. And the nation cannot be a mere part of you. There is a part of the bill, and even this is before the interpretation provisions, which concern that the enforcement of rights must always be ensured with the priority of Community security. This is an important sentence, because if someone reads only this, then they will filter it out and talk about laymen, Minister, not about you, not about those who made this legislation, about laymen that the individual, the individual interest, does not matter. And maybe that's not what you thought, and maybe that's not what the detailed justification and the general justification say, but that's what's here. I do not think that a law can be passed that does not take into account the individual interests, the interests and rights of the citizen, while we know that national defence laws, the relevant legislation, in particular in a special legal order, impose very broad obligations on citizens, at least for some of the citizens. Because I thought that when they presented this bill and talked about the Hungarian nation, we should finally clarify the matters of military commitment. Today, he is a man of 18 years of age who is permanently resident in Hungary. I think that there is another problem here with the whole philosophy of the bill and, by the way, with a set of obligations. I think the accuracy I was talking about is extremely important. This is the individual interest or individual obligations, to be more precise: the secondary nature of individual rights compared to Community security and to the community. Compared to the fact that the Hungarian nation is spoken in this bill, these inaccurate, gingly wordings of this bill, by the way, with the legislative lists of what the government can do and how it can act, push security and defence issues into the grey zone. So, security and defence issues are not simply digestible, because, in terms of protection, the Hungarian citizen, and let us start from this, because the law is based on security awareness and security knowledge, so let us assume that protection for the Hungarian citizen is generally protection against external attack. But security and we talked about it a lot, security is a very comprehensive category. Nothing shows it better than when they talk about the fact that national resilience is part of transport. Yeah, well, being able to drive normally is fine. It is obviously part of the issue of food safety, and we think so. It includes information technology, information communication, the digital world, and, in my view, the protection of the democratic rights of citizens, which is unfortunately not included in this. Security is no longer a concept like it was, and you probably know more about it, since you have more experience as a soldier, as a former soldier. Security can be everything now. [[22.20]] I'd say everything is. That is why I think that, when we are talking about defence and security activities in itself, it is necessary to define this very important, very clearly because this law calls for a mandate for the government, which I think goes beyond what is dangerous to us, whether it is an epidemic threat, whether it is an external or an internal attack. I think, Minister, that as much as it is good to talk about these things, these conversations have been cancelled in recent years. There were one-sided revelations, one-sided newspaper articles, no information. However, we cannot support this bill because you have not been too generous with regard to the transfer of information, but because we do not see in it the democratic guarantees that any government, but most of all, in relation to the activities of your government, would clearly show the framework that so far and no longer. I would like to assume, contrary to what has been said here, that the purpose of this is not to build a military state. I think, if you want to build a military state in this country, that's your goal, you'll end up in court for this. That's what I can say. I can't imagine there being anyone among the soldiers who would turn against his own people. If he does, he'll definitely go to trial, and not because I say so, but because I can't do that. If you don't want to build a military state, and I say it again, I'd like to believe and think, despite all our arguments, that some well-meaning professionalism has brought you in this direction, it's just that things have gone very wrong. And perhaps one of the reasons for this slippage is that they only talked to themselves about these issues, even if they might come to me with civil society organisations that dealt with these issues. The leaders of these civil society organisations usually work in the Ministry of Defence or the Prime Minister's Office, so we know that. It is also worth asking for the opinion of people in these matters who see things in a slightly different way, from a different perspective, from a different perspective. Therefore, this bill, Minister, even if the intention is understandable, cannot be supported in this form. It would be eligible if this were to be withdrawn, and we would start this and discuss again how the amendment of the basic law that had been wronged before could be done because the amendment of the basic law was also ruined, so let's leave it at that, it is clear from the law, otherwise, that it is clear from the law, correcting the exceptional legal situation, and putting ordinary legislative frameworks behind them, which clearly show citizens that at the end of the day, not the defence wallet, but the Prime Minister, but the Hungarian citizen is the most important one in this whole defence system. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Tamás Bell Clap.]]
u2021-05-26-206	Congressman Nacha!
u2021-05-26-207	Thank you very much. Very briefly, I think that there are also sensible arguments from Mrs Vadai, and that can be discussed. I cannot accept that one argument from a woman representing me in any way when she says that this defence wallet has written to herself, that they have thought of themselves in a closed room and that they have not included anyone in the discussions, and that we should not talk about civil society organisations. It is difficult to accept this argument or this accusation when you personally received an invitation to the defence wallet. I understand why you do not want to leave the day before, and my good fellow Member refers to an epidemic situation; I think that is a bit excessive in this situation, because during the epidemic situation, we have also been to seven-party consultations, for example, with the Ministry of the Interior and many places; but the fact is, Madam honourable Member, that you have received this invitation in spite of all your accusations, so that you can discuss this, so that Minister can present his position on why and why I would like to put these in the law, how you imagine it. And you can tell me that this invitation could have been made a month later, sooner, anytime, I don't know which building, but at the end of the night, the truth is that you were invited, and you decided not to attend. Your soul, I understand, but only then the lack of coordination from your indictments, please remove it, because you have received this invitation, and the Minister has been waiting for you, but you have not left. I'm telling you, I don't want to judge why they didn't leave and for political reasons, but it's the truth that they didn't. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-208	Congresswoman Vada in two minutes.
u2021-05-26-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, You weren't in the room when I was talking about this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But I listened.]] That's why I'd like to repeat it. One part of this bill is about the extraordinary legal order, which is based on a fundamental amendment, the ninth, to which it was not included in any way. I do not consider it a negotiation, Mr President, that one is called to the end of the process, especially if I see clearly that it is a 65-page bill, and I do not consider the justification to be part of it, so 65 pages is the text of the bill itself. I think the discussion is like when Mr Simicskó put forward a proposal for a voluntary reserve system before 2010 and we sat down to discuss this issue, he was still an opposition representative at the time, and I was pro-government. We agreed on this issue, and it ended with the fact that opposition proposals were also voted by pro-government representatives. It was an ongoing discussion about the need for such a voluntary reserve system. I think the negotiation is that at the beginning of the process, but at least after a third of it, we can at least be a part of this, since we keep talking about national defence. It is not agreed that the Minister will give us a lecture on what he wants in the end. It's a show. We can listen to these lectures here, and we can read the bill, but we can understand and talk to each other about why this nation's long-term interest is in creating and submitting such a bill together, I think it's the negotiation and the discussion. And frankly, I believe that citizens would expect us, Members of Parliament, on certain issues, to present this kind of attitude in Parliament at times. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-26-210	Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no further contributions were made, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Minister Benkő, as rapporteur, if he would like to reflect on what has been said in the debate.
u2021-05-26-211	Mr President, Of course I wish.
u2021-05-26-212	Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-05-26-213	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I thank you very much for your comments, suggestions and suggestions, because we have come here, among other things, to continue to prepare for this law. After all, we have not just begun to implement this idea, and now, in addition to the general debate, since we have failed to discuss it, we have failed to resolve it.In addition to the general debate, we are also meeting before the Defence and Police Committee, where we are already discussing this matter on the basis of professional or deeper professional knowledge. So we are not at the end, but we are there that yes, there is something to talk about, we look forward to the proposals and comments. Yes, indeed, my former Secretary of State for Public Administration has been involved in this work, sitting here to listen to you, to take into account all the proposals or criticisms that are being made. So the work is still ahead of us. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of both the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party for coming... [[He's taking off his mask.]] I'm sorry, so maybe you can hear it better. I apologize. So, that you came to this discussion and made many, many proposals on the basis of which the proposal, the draft, was revised. [[22.30]] So there were people who helped make it better. That it's not perfect? It may not be perfect yet, but we're here to talk about it. I would therefore like to thank and then, Mr President, for the comments that have been made and the supporting proposal to Mr Simon Miklós on the issues raised. Mr László Lukács is no longer here, a representative of Jobbik, but I would also like to thank you for the specific comments and suggestions that he considers appropriate for us to amend and improve this draft law. I would first of all like to thank Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, and I see that the Member sees it quite differently, he perceives everything that Andrea Varga-Damm. In the meantime, he's gone, they've told me what they have to say, and actually, I don't think they're interested in answering. But at least you said that you thank the soldiers for their work, their attitude and everything they do in this difficult pandemic situation, not for the defence, but for Hungary and the Hungarian people. Thank you, too, for the supportive thoughts I have heard from you and, of course, for the recognition I pass on to the soldiers. Mr. Bellman! We're here in a family environment, in a family atmosphere. It's possible in terms of size, otherwise not in terms of tone. I don't want to live in a family where that tone exists, that disrespectful tone. I don't know, my family's different. People don't talk like that. But if this is a family environment, a family atmosphere, enjoy yourself. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What are you talking about?]] Read back what you said if you don't remember. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Yes, I told you!]] It was worth talking about, he says. Sure. That's why we called you! That's why we invited you to the seven-party meeting, to discuss it, because we think it's important. We consider your comments and suggestions to be important, so I agree with him that we should have talked about it. I'm very sorry that I didn't hear a word from you, by the way. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I won't do that!]] He won't? Why? [[Dr. Tamás Bell: Because it's incorrigible!]] I see! You can still have ideas and suggestions. You ignore it and don't think it's anything, but you can still have your own ideas and suggestions on what to do for the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Let us look forward to this proposal. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó nod: There will be!]] The Hungarian Parliament is not responsible for this. I told you! If you were listening, I said that the law provides for guarantee rules on fundamental rights, and in this you will find the control role of legality, Parliament and the Constitutional Court. Here, take a look. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: It's not in there!]] You're telling me that the Defense Council was wiped out in the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, because there was a change in that, not here, but in the Fundamental Law. I fully agree with Mrs Vadai's comments, because indeed, the abolition of the Defence Council is included in that law. But on the other hand, it says what Congresswoman Valai says, and I would quote: we have given it to the people's representation. Instead of the faction leaders, it falls into the hands of the Parliament, because in this law, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai shakes his head:]] Whatever special legal order there is, the National Assembly works. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] Yes! Yes! Make me look. It's working! We therefore consider it appropriate and better what Mrs Vadai said, that the people's representation, and not the political leaders, should form the Defence Council, but the entire Parliament. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Defense Council adjourned!]] That's why I'm telling you. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's gone!]] It's gonna go away. That is why the Parliament has this power in its hands. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Read it already!]] No! Here, take a look. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I'd just like to say it must have been a slip of the tongue, but I'm not Mr. Marothi. I don't know you. So you're referring to names, insulting the soldiers, not telling them what kind of tools to be, but to Mr. Maróti here... what? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó's intervention.]] I don't know how you know that. I don't know that. And as far as I know, the soldiers have come up with the plan of what is needed, what is needed to carry out the tasks. I think that's what they're saying. Mrs Vadai: I thank you very much for what you have said, this is a constructive remark, a proposal. I can't tell you anything but what you said, that I'm sure the answer will be to submit it in writing. Yes, I am asking, because this is the next step in making this democratic system work. If you have any suggestions, as you have just did, this will obviously be written, but please do so in writing. Please submit, and of course the professionals will take this into account! Madam Secretary! [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Minister!]] I looked him in the eye. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Me too!]] when he says you won't get into the Ministry. At the last HRB, so at the meeting of the Defense and Police Committee, where I was briefed, I gave you the last answer, because there you again suggested that you would like to come in and see me. Who did I appoint to ask you to look for him? Because you asked who the contact person was. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai nodds.]] State Secretary for Public Administration. As far as I know, he hasn't been looking for her since. So it's hard to get into the Ministry, that I always tell you, I mean, you always tell me, but you don't do anything to get in. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: But I've done a lot, General.]] Yeah, I believe you, but you still haven't contacted the person involved. There's no way in! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We'll help you! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not the problem! The president's gonna ring the bell.]]
u2021-05-26-214	The thing is, the Minister is holding his end of the debate right now. With all due respect, I have 22 hours and 39 minutes of class, and there's one more item on the agenda, so let's try to get through each other. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2021-05-26-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also think that I have patiently listened to everyone, and I have given this respect to everyone. I think it's mutual. The Member is asking for the rights of people and citizens and she is mentioning them. I completely agree, that's the basis of everything! [[Dr. Agnes Vadai nodds.]] That's the basis for everything! As you have heard from Congressman László György Lukács here during the speeches, we know that it is a special legal order and I would not mention what it is, unfortunately, with restrictions. That's what it comes with. But at the same time, this law says that we are avoiding it as much as possible, so as far as possible, we respect the rights of citizens. How can we not be unharmed? No! Well, in a special legal order that means an emergency, which means a war situation, unfortunately, we know very well. But the law says that, by virtue of the power of legitimacy, this has been said on my part, it affects or restricts the functioning of society and the rights of citizens as little as possible. That's what the bill is about. You mentioned the military commitment, quite rightly, because we know very well that, along with the military service that was terminated in 2004, the military engagement was also damaged. [[22.40]] They are significantly damaged and need to be restored. But it's going to be a fundamental law. It is included in this draft that this bill must now be submitted so that when further laws are drawn up... I can no longer remember exactly who mentioned that the Minister of Defence will have no place, role, task, duty and responsibility. Of course there is. Well, no one says that there will be no law of defense, no law on the status of soldiers, no system of duties for defence, because that's not what this story is about. What I'm saying is that this is a task ahead of us, which I really hope we can accomplish. I understand the suggestion made by the congresswoman that this could have been done when the idea was made. A plan was made, a preparation was made. Madam Congresswoman, you did not come to the seven-party consultation I initiated in 2018. They didn't come when I wanted to discuss the future of defence and the Hungarian Defense. In such a situation, it is difficult to set up a meeting or a consensual thing if the invitation is not accepted. I do not agree at all that the solution is to withdraw and start over. I apologize to you, it's such a Pató-Pál methodical thing that we have time for that. However, we are already late, and it should have been done a long time ago to ensure that the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people is served with the greatest possible devotion, precisely because of what you say, that the defence and the soldiers are concerned, and that the defence and the soldiers are for society. Mr President, allow me, although Andrea Varga-Damm is not here, she has left, but there is much that has been said here to respond to her suggestions.
u2021-05-26-216	The record will record what you say, so please.
u2021-05-26-217	Thank you very much. My first thought was to tell Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm that I didn't recognize her. That's not the kind of person I knew, which is why I don't know if the congresswoman is motivated by malice or revenge against the wallet, and everyone knows that she used to work at the Ministry of Defence, or that she's really that uninformed. Is he so uninformed and unprepared in these cases? I was very, very surprised by that. Is there no need for this bill? Does the congresswoman really think that everything is all right? What if the country were in a situation like this? Let's talk about the pandemic situation, or let's talk about hybrid warfare, cyber-attack. Is the country really fully prepared for this? Can we really defend the attacks that affect the functioning of the whole country, the security of the people? Well, I'm very disappointed in that question. I, of course, wish that this should not be introduced and applied. But whose responsibility is it if it happens and we cannot protect human life, provide it, serve it with the utmost care? I cannot say anything else to the Member's speech except that I am very sorry, but she has indeed failed to interpret this bill, as she said. He really didn't make any sense. And I say that I believe that what we say, what we do, what we do, we do for the people, we do for the citizens. Maybe everything isn't perfect, but then let's be smart enough to be prepared to add our proposals to one goal, to make it even better. On behalf of the soldiers, I ask you to put it this way that we made a fool out of the soldiers. They, be they military ladies or men who were there and handled all sorts of things in the service of Hungarian citizens, whether this hospital, be it this hospital-commanding system, be it this disinfection, whatever it is, they have conscientiously done it with their heart and soul. And to say that we made a fool of them? ! Soldiers have died in this plague! They're dead, yeah. Children remain orphans. And this is how you talk about the people, the soldiers who are in the best interest of this country? It's a shame! Shameful! I am very sorry that the congresswoman has left. Mr President, Dear House, That's how I wanted to summarize what I had recorded, not with the need for completeness, of course. I've written everything down, we've recorded everything, but I'm still saying that we're looking forward to the written proposals. We are also preparing to continue discussing this proposal before the Defence and Police Committee on 1 July. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-218	Minister, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, Following is the Hungarian contribution to the Balkan military peace-keeping operations under NATO's direction 94/2001. General debate on the proposal to repeal a decision until closure. The government referral is H/16219. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I now give the floor once again to the Minister of Defence, Mr Tibor Benkő, as rapporteur. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2021-05-26-219	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The first sentence of the Defense Act is what we have said several times today, and we talk about it regularly as a national matter of defence. And as you, the present Members, know, the Hungarian Defence Forces are not only under the fundamental obligation to protect the borders of the nation and the country, but the Defense Act also provides that the defence is responsible for, inter alia, the fulfilment of military obligations arising from federal and international treaties, including peacekeeping crisis management and humanitarian tasks. Until today, we have all seen that the Hungarian Defence Forces have demonstrated on several occasions that Hungary is actively taking part in the international crisis management tasks undertaken. [[22.50]] Under the leadership of both NATO, the EU and the UN, there is still a consensus that Hungarian soldiers can actually be expected by the alliance. At the same time, stability in Hungary is of paramount importance not only because of allied commitment, but also because of our geopolitical involvement. In line with this, our KFOR role in the engagement of the Kosovo forces and by increasing it, within the framework of NATO operational cooperation, strengthening our peace-building tasks in the Western Balkans remains a priority for Hungary. Dear Parliament, As part of our country's international allies' commitment, we have gained decades of experience in the process of stabilisation in the Balkans. For the first time, we had to provide a legal basis for sending our troops to the region, according to our constitution at that time, with parliamentary authority. After that, from 2013 onwards, to present the then government, this House amended the Constitution in such a way that the Fundamental Law also took over that, in the case of allied operations and missions, the passage of our borders by our soldiers required permission from the Government. Ladies and Gentlemen, One of the best examples of the international recognition of the Hungarian military is that at the so-called NATO Global Power Generation Conference in 2020, those taking part in the decision-making decision decided that Hungary should lead the Kosmet forces in the future, so that, from November 2021, for the first time, the Hungarian general will be the commander of KFOR. However, our involvement in the Balkans is not just the placement of a high-level person. The Hungarian Government also discussed an increase in the number of the Balkan mission, and the government plans to take part in NATO peacekeeping operation for a maximum of 500 persons, excluding individual posts, this autumn of the Hungarian Defence Forces, in a change period of up to 1000 persons, and to provide a further reserve force of at least 700 operational levels within our borders, here in Hungary, which may be deployed if necessary until 31 December 2022. The expansion of the task and the increase in the number of staff also required the issue of a new mandate. In view of the fact that our duties in Kosovo are carried out in the context of NATO operation, Hungarian participation in it and its amendments are linked to the government's prior public contribution, but, according to our legal order, the Government's decision and decision do not allow the old parliamentary decision to remain in force in parallel, and therefore its repeal is justified. Dear House, I trust that there is no debate between us here, within the walls of the Hungarian Parliament, that the international engagement of our country, especially the security stability of our region, is a common matter that we must support. The Government is taking the necessary steps in its own power and I ask that this House also take the necessary steps to repeal an old decision which is already without legal basis. In view of all this, I ask that you support the proposal for a resolution, and I thank you for your patience and your attention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-220	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First up, the lead speaker of Fidesz, Congressman Miklós Simon. Here.
u2021-05-26-221	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, I would just like to say briefly and remind everyone that, as I recall, at the end of the previous autumn session, at the end of 2020, we already had a similar procedure: then, because of the expansion of our participation in the peace mission in Lebanon, we had to withdraw an earlier parliamentary decision, because, as the rapporteur mentioned, since 2009, the Fundamental Law no longer gives the Government the power to take decisions on participation in foreign military missions. We now have about the same procedure to expand the Hungarian quota in NATO's peacekeeping operations in Kosovo. 1344/2019 on increasing Hungary's international military engagement. In paragraph 1 of the Government Decision, the Government calls on the Minister of Defence to implement, in the period 2019-2022, an increase in the Hungarian military engagement within the framework of the international forces involved in NATO's response to the Kosovo crisis, KFOR. 94/2001, which initiated our engagement in KFOR. In fact, by withdrawing a parliamentary decision, we are removing the legal barrier to enlargement. It is clearly important for the Hungarian Government to preserve the stability of the Central European region, and our involvement in KFOR also contributes to this. Strengthening this, I think, can only be an eligible step, so I call on my fellow Members to support, like the Fidesz fraction, the adoption of the resolution proposal before us. I would also like to take this opportunity to join my fellow Member, Nacsa, in thanking the Minister for the Hungarian soldiers' support in dealing with the virus situation, they have worked hard and persistently. Thank you, Minister, for the Hungarian soldiers. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-222	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2021-05-26-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the members of the MSZP Parliamentary Assembly, thank you for your support, exemplary service, and we are proud of them. Our group supports the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-26-224	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa is the lead speaker of KDNP. Here.
u2021-05-26-225	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I think that Hungary has an economic and national security interest in the stability of the Western Balkans, so helping the countries of the Western Balkans, promoting Euroatlantic accession and integration processes are a central element of Hungarian foreign policy and one of the central elements of the Hungarian national security strategy. In our opinion, if the Western Balkans is not stable enough, it cannot reduce irregular migration flows, combat terrorism, combat organised crime and prevent the spread of various extremist ideologies. Therefore, Hungary, the European Union and NATO have an elemental security interest in maintaining stability, security and peace in the Western Balkans. [[23.00]] In addition, the European Union has an economic interest, of course. The three countries of the Western Balkans region, Albania, Northern Macedonia and Montenegro, have already joined NATO, but Hungary will take command of the KFOR mission in Kosovo as of November 2021. Currently 420 Hungarian soldiers are stationed in the region, but their number will increase to 500 this year. Hungary is also participating in the EUFOR mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where Hungary is the third largest contributor with 52 soldiers. I think that from the reports, even my fellow Member of Vada can confirm this, NATO Parliamentary Assembly meetings always speak of the international engagement of Hungarian soldiers with the highest professional recognition of allied partners, the Allied countries. I think that Hungary shows its abilities, strength and knowledge in these international missions, and it is, of course, necessary to support these international missions. The bill is technical in this way and, of course, we also support the mission and this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-226	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, lead speaker for DK!
u2021-05-26-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There may be few cases in Parliament that we usually agree on, especially when detailed in the Defence and Police Committee, and this is the case of international missions. Perhaps this was not a big debate between us, apart from one or two cases, because there was one that the current MPs did not vote for at the time, and there was a mission where the continuation was not voted by current opposition representatives due to lack of information, but in general we can say that there is not a lot of debate between us on international mission issues. One of the main reasons for this is that we all know what the Minister has been talking about, and it has obviously already been said that the creation of peace and security for Hungary is not only necessary at the borders of the country and within it, but in many cases, in order to stabilise regions, in order for the conflict to be localised and not to spread further, military engagement is necessary. I don't think we've ever argued that, whoever was in the government, we're pretty much in agreement on that. On the other hand, we all know that in the course of military career advancement, it is important to know what kind of international experience anyone has. And obviously, the experience in the various NATO and European Union institutions is very important, but we can say that it is the practice and knowledge acquired in different international fields that can be important both individually and collectively for the Hungarian Defence Office. I think that in such proposals, it is not a bill, but a parliamentary resolution, but no matter how often there is a debate between the opposition and the party of government, precisely because we have recognised these. As has been said here, the stability of the Western Balkans has an elemental interest and political and geostrategic interest in this country. And here are the foreign policy priorities that have fundamentally changed in recent years thanks to your governance, and this change has not worked here. So as far as the Western Balkans are concerned, I think it is safe to say that the representatives sitting on both sides of the horseshoe agree that they were active members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly or the various forums of the European Union in order to facilitate the integration of this region into NATO, as Mr Nacsa has said, so clearly the Hungarian Members or even the MEPs have taken different steps to ensure that the neighbouring countries that affect our security, clearly fulfilling various criteria, are members of the Euroatlantic institutional system, as well as strengthening the security of Hungary, the security of the region and, obviously, the integration of the Euroatlantic region. It's always good when we talk about Hungarian soldiers, because I think it's when everyone has a soft face and forgets for a moment which party they belong to and which government they serve or who they serve. Because we all have a good opinion of the Hungarian soldiers in this Parliament, and there is no occasion, whether in committee or here, where Members, especially members of the Defence and Police Committee, do not express themselves, how much we appreciate that these people, who take an oath to protect their country and our country at the cost of their lives, are doing such a great service to this country both at home and abroad. In particular, I can say that it is important events when, obviously, many years of Hungarian activity, because this is a cycle, because we have been there for a very long time in the Western Balkans, and we get to the point where a Hungarian general is placed in this leading position. I think this is a terrible recognition of the many years of work, and let us take it down here, Minister, the debate that we had here in the previous law, because it did not give me a better view of the law that was drawn up, but I do not think that, overall, no government was wrong in that we have a national interest in preserving the integrity of participation in international missions and the continuity of participation in the Western Balkans. And the recognition of this continuity, of this long-standing task and of the decent work done by the soldiers, and obviously of the military ability, because the General, I suppose, I can, and I suspect, is capable of carrying out this task, so, his recognition, too. But not only the recognition of today's soldiers, but all those who were there in the Western Balkans have contributed to peace and security in their own way, and what is very important is that the reputation of the Hungarian Defence Forces has been taken to these countries. I myself visited our military contingents, they did an excellent job, and our partners at the time always praised the Hungarian soldiers at that time. So what I can say is that I would like to thank not only today's soldiers for what they have done in the past period, whoever the Prime Minister and the Minister are, but I would also like to thank those soldiers who have served this country in the Western Balkans, whether in other quotas or in the territory of Hungary, in recent years, and have served us as Hungarian citizens. Unfortunately, what the Minister said is sad, and we know that there are soldiers who lost their lives during the plague. We're asking you to give our condolences to the relatives. I personally know what it's like to have an orphan Christmas which is also a cycle-crossing tradition in the defense wallet, which unfortunately has to be kept, because unfortunately we have victims, but how important it is that the defense takes care of those who remain without a parent. These are very important things that connect us even if we have huge political battles ahead of us. The fact that a soldier can be a soldier and does not have to decide between a citizen and a citizen that he always serves his country is our responsibility. Of course, those on the government always have more responsibility, but this does not excuse the opposition representative from taking care of the soldier. Our political battles, I would like to ask you to remain confined to each other in the future. I've always held that. A soldier, not a man who goes back and forth, who is a real soldier, who really swears to serve this country for the rest of his life, will always receive respect from us. He will not be involved in political battles, our international missions and soldiers serving in our international missions, even if we disagreed with such a mission, the Minister knows we were watching with concern when they were attacked or in the area where our soldiers served. Because we may have political disputes, but we cannot create a situation for these soldiers to serve at home or abroad, even though they must choose. We all share a common country, at least I think Hungary, we must go along this thought, even if it is often terribly difficult, because we think differently about the world because we see things differently. I think, fortunately and I think that there is no exception in this Parliament, the Hungarian soldier, who will do his work with honor, serve at home or abroad, be it a woman or a man, serve and do his work in accordance with his oath, we will always appreciate it, and we will thank him for his work. [[23.10]] So I would like to conclude by saying that the Democratic Coalition faction will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal, and, on behalf of our faction, I and, obviously, the Minister will also respond to it in their rejoinder, so, on behalf of our faction and specifically on my behalf, but perhaps that is not even a question for the Minister, I would also like to thank him for the work that Hungarian soldiers are doing in Hungary and abroad. We wish them very, very good health and that they always know what the oath they take when they become soldiers means. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-26-228	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Honourable Members, would anyone else like to speak? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed, and I am now giving Mr Benkő, Minister for Defence, as rapporteur, the opportunity to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Minister.
u2021-05-26-229	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would just like to thank you for your thanks to the soldiers and the soldiers; of course I will pass it on. I thank you for the commendable thoughts and words that I have heard, and I am glad that although the Congresswoman said that everyone in this House agrees, we have just heard that not everyone, but I hope that sooner or later everyone will agree with her and have no other outbursts. However, I would also like to thank you for supporting the repeal of the parliamentary decision by all speakers. Thank you for your patience, thank you for following my comments at this late hour. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-26-230	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. In order to see the advantage of everything, not just the disadvantage, I would like to inform you that there is not a single speaker after the agenda, so that I can announce after this debate: [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: We're going home.]] We'll finish our work tonight. I thank you for this work and inform you that the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night.
