u2021-05-19-0	Dear Parliament, The 20th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, László Földi and Csaba Gyure will help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, It follows that the general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2022 will begin. The bill is T/16118. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/16118/1. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Allow me to extend my compliments to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who has arrived at the hearing. Vice-President Holman Magdolna and Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council. (Applause) I would like to inform you that during the hearing of the bill, the Committee on Budgets shall act in the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today, as well as the main rules of the debate. Mr. Messenger!
u2021-05-19-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 11-hour timeframe is divided into 226 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 104 minutes for the KDNP Group; 76 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 71 minutes for the MSZP Group; 56 minutes for the DK Group; 48 minutes for the LMP Group; 46 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 33 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to another day. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, if the MEP has applied through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced it as a speaker. Where he has made direct contact, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member, each within a 7-minute time frame. The voice of the representative or representative of the nationalities committee of Hungary, as well as the further speeches of representatives and advocates of nationalities, may take place on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays in 20-20 minutes, in a total of 60 minutes, which will not be included in the timeframe.
u2021-05-19-2	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, In the general debate, today, the opening speech of the authors will take 40 minutes; the speech of the President of the State Audit Office in a 30-minute time frame; the speech of the President of the Board of Budgets in a 30-minute time frame; the speeches of the political groups in a 30-30-minute time frame; the address of the minority representative invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary in a 20-minute time frame; then the first independent representative; then the further speeches will be open to the time frame of each faction. The amendments will be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 40-minute time frame. The Minister will give his speech on the pulpit. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-05-19-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Lords of the President! Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary will also overcome this crisis. We are protecting the progress that has been made in recent years. Together with Hungarian people and businesses, we will succeed. In the event of the outbreak, we took immediate action with this conviction, took the first steps of the economic protection action plan and launched the economic re-launch action plan. At this unusual time, the country joined forces, the people adopted strict measures, and the workers in many areas perform beyond their strength. It is a regrettable fact that the left has not been involved in this work, and has even been working against the successful defence, and is now vitiating an apocalypse. Therefore, I will say in the introduction here: according to the data published yesterday, the Hungarian economy performed in excess of expectations in the first three months of this year. The economic performance of Hungary increased by 1.9 percent compared to the previous quarter, compared to the expected decline of 0.3 percent by market experts. This is one of the greatest increases in the European Union. On an annual basis, the expert consensus predicted a decline of around 3.7 percent. The Hungarian economy showed a much more favourable 1.8 percent decline according to seasonal and calendar-adjusted data. As regards the prospects for next year: in its recent forecast, the European Commission estimates an increase of 5.5 per cent and the International Monetary Fund of 5.9 per cent, i.e. nearly 6 per cent for Hungary. Organisations that cannot be accused of bias towards our country recognise Hungary's performance and confirm the merits of our plans. So we have every chance of returning the Hungarian economy to the dynamic path that was described before the crisis caused by the Crown Virus. This shows that economic protection measures have been effective, and subsidies from the budget and tax incentives have been a real help to businesses. Let us say that the Hungarian economy has begun to be restarted! Dear Parliament, From the current global crisis, countries that can build on three important elements: on the one hand, they have built a balanced economy in previous years; on the other hand, following the outbreak, they have taken rapid and decisive measures to protect people and the economy; and, last but not least, they have kept as much of the secure handholds as possible to alleviate the crisis and to start over. In Hungary, these secure handholds include the government's value-based policy, the pillars of which remained unchanged during the epidemic: we build a work-based society, so we support the preservation of jobs and the creation of new ones; we want to achieve Hungary's future economic positions by increasing performance, supporting investment, innovation and territorially balanced growth; we pay particular attention to the strengthening of families, the appreciation of older people and the promotion of child rearing; and in all circumstances, we put the interests of the nation, the country and the Hungarian people first; therefore, if necessary, as we do now, we are on our own path. [[8.10]] Due to this, Hungary is also a high performance in grafting at EU level, and we have gained a significant step advantage in opening up and re-launching the economy. With that in mind, we express our deep sympathy for all the families we have lost in the plague. Dear House, It is worth stepping back for a moment and evaluating the situation from a broader time horizon. The economic policy measures taken in recent years have led to a strong, resilient and balanced economy. In the midst of the current global crisis, it is even more obvious that we have not wasted the last decade. This is why we have been able to rely on the results of balanced growth, debt reduction and fiscal policy during the epidemic. Between 2014 and 2019 the Hungarian economy increased by 4.1 percent on average, while the average growth and growth of the Union was 2.1 percent. Public finances were in balance, and public debt declined steadily and continuously, from 80% to 65%. In 2019 Hungary produced one of the fastest growth rates in the European Union by 4.6 percent. It is due to these facts that no external assistance or austerity measures had to be applied during the economic downturn. The latter, as we experienced during the left-wing government, would have taken away income from pensioners and those employed by the state. We didn't do that, but by redeploying internal financial resources, we continued a countercyclical economic policy, in the period of the downturn we took stimulating steps, mainly through the unprecedented economic protection action plan affecting 30% of gross domestic product. Hungary has thus responded successfully to the economic challenges of the coronal virus epidemic. In 2020, the growth of Hungarian gross domestic product did not occur, we decreased by 5 percent, and this was in line with the decline of the European Union and the world economy, but this was also below the fall of 6.2 percent in the European Union. In March 2021, the average monthly number of employees was 4 million,616,000, which exceeds the same period of the previous year by 41,000. Employment, chances and opportunities of location remain. The labour market has shifted towards higher value added jobs with higher average wages. In addition, the investment rate remained above 27 per cent in the EU's top position, preserving previous results. This gives us hope for the future. As a result of the combined measures, the government's expectation that growth will be above 4 per cent this year and above 5 per cent next year is now considered more cautious. Dear House, The 2022 budget is the budget for the re-launch. Spring submission is one of the sure points that will contribute to the re-launch. In the current situation, it is essential not to give up the advantage of early knowledge of government measures, predictability. This is important for people, businesses and everyone. Next year's budget focuses on the economic re-launch action plan, which is the largest economic programme in the history of modern Hungary. The implementation of the action plan will allow everyone who has been put in a difficult situation to recover. This means that we also use the budget's resources to ensure that everyone who has lost their job can get it back or get a new job, and that any entrepreneur who has had to close his business can restart it and even develop it further if possible. Protection against the epidemic must continue to be maintained, but in this exceptional situation, we will retain the values that we have already represented. The draft budget law therefore guarantees the values of economic policy and dynamic development, guarantees support for families and guarantees the resources needed to re-launch the economy. Let me mention four key elements. On the one hand, the retirement of the 13th month pension continues. This budget also guarantees the coverage of this. Secondly, it will contribute to the tax exemption for young people under the age of 25, as it is counting and calculating that this will start on 1 January 2022. Thirdly, the employer's tax burden will continue to decrease. In November 2016, we reached an agreement with employers and employees. A new point of this will be met in 2022. Finally, as a fourth point, let me mention that the necessary funding is also available to create jobs and stimulate investment. The budget will be able to provide them. With all these objectives in mind, Hungary's internal resources and strong capacity to expand are based on a deficit target of 5.9 per cent, moderate inflation of 3 per cent, and dynamic, 5.2 per cent economic growth. Our priority remains to put the debt ratio on a declining path. After 80.4 percent of last year's gross domestic product, it is reduced to less than 80 percent this year and to 79.3 percent of gross domestic product next year. We also preserved the conservative design approach of previous years. To address the risks arising from changing circumstances, we created a safety reserve of HUF 233 billion to finance unexpected expenditure. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, I thank the Fiscal Council for reviewing the bill and drafting its opinion. According to this, the bill complies with the requirements of the Fundamental Law and, in line with that, the reduction in the sovereign debt indicator remains permanent. Although next year's budget deficit is higher than we have been used to in the last decade, the disciplined management of the years after 2010 has enabled the state to compensate for the negative economic impact of the coronal virus pandemic by means of budgetary instruments. The deficit target of 2022 was set by the government to ensure that the budget could be financed, reduced deficit, while at the same time providing funds to re-launch the economy, support for families, businesses and investment. Overall, the Hungarian deficit and public debt levels are more favourable than the average by European standards. In 2021, the average deficit in EU Member States is 7.8 percent of GDP, i.e. higher than the Hungarian deficit target. The average expected debt ratio in the Member States can be 95.1 percent of gross domestic product, i.e. significantly higher than the 79.9 percent figure in Hungary. Compared to these levels, budget deficit levels and government debt ratios are also decreasing in 2022. The State Audit Office also carried out the audit and examined in detail the design documents and the draft budget. Allow me to thank the Court of Auditors for its work. Dear Parliament, With regard to the structure of the 2022 budget, the proposal preserves the two pillars of this year's budget. On the one hand, in the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund, about HUF 3600 billion is available for health care and, if necessary, for epidemiological expenditure. [[8.20]] On the other hand, the economic re-launch action plan contains a total of HUF 7308 billion, representing 13 per cent of gross domestic product. Allow me to explain some of the main points of this action plan. The first and largest framework of the action plan is the HUF 3883 billion national resource, the highest of the three frameworks being domestic resources, the European Union, as well as the benefits and reduction of the burden. In particular, without the need for completeness, let me highlight a few items: we spend more than HUF 610 billion on supporting families, creating homes and protecting pensioners; HUF 430 billion on promoting the creation of new jobs, supporting employment; HUF 460 billion on health wage increases; HUF 400 billion on infrastructure improvements; HUF 870 billion on investment preparation and implementation; EUR 870 billion on tourism with significant forces; HUF 77 billion on agriculture development and HUF 130 billion on sport and culture support. These are, therefore, the main components which make up the domestic source. As the second framework of the action plan, more than HUF 3000 billion of EU funds are used to re-launch the economy and mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic. Finally, as a third framework, the various tax and contribution reductions are also part of the action plan, as these benefits leave a source for businesses, companies, and help restart and rebuild. With the existing remaining benefits, the government leaves more than HUF 420 billion in Hungarian families and businesses, thus helping the economy to recover as soon as possible. I would like to highlight some of the tax reduction measures that help re-launch the economy: the VAT and tax exemption for home creation in the first place, which is 170 billion forints, the introduction of a 25-year-old exemption, which is 140 billion forints, and a 2 percentage point reduction in the employer's tax burden, leaving more than 113 billion forints for those affected. Therefore, very important items are those that support actions that help businesses and individuals operate and restart with a wide range of benefits. The tax reduction policy will therefore be continued in the framework of the action plan. The tax burden on labour in Hungary has decreased to one of the largest levels in the OECD countries, and this can be the case next year. Dear Parliament, In 2022, almost all areas, like the previous budgets of the civilian government, have more resources than they had a year ago. Allow me a few sentences on these, too. Let's start with health. In 2022, health can spend nearly two and a half times as much on development, wages, procurement, investment as it was in 2010. A total of HUF 2884 billion is available, which is HUF 1700 billion more than in 2010 when the government changed, and it is about HUF 770 billion higher than this year's funds. We pay particular attention to health developments, and the aim is a modern, the XXI. Developing an efficient supply system capable of responding to the challenges of the 20th century. The most important expenditure in health insurance benefits is medical-preventive benefits. We plan to spend 2123 billion forints for this purpose, 556 billion forints more than this year. This surplus will ensure in particular the wage development programme of healthcare workers, workers, nurses, and the necessary coverage of the new health wage increase programme launched in 2021. You may recall, fellow Members, that the Government and the Hungarian Medical Chamber have concluded an agreement, and as a part of that, we have been able to increase medical wages significantly this year. This will continue in 2022 and this wage increase will be covered. The 2022 resources will allow for further financing of measures to improve health care that have already started, planned improvements and enlargements. The budgetary resources that can be used to support medicines will also increase significantly. Overall, we will be able to spend some HUF 107 billion more on the financial benefits of health insurance. In addition, the Healthy Budapest programme will be continued. In this context, we have been able to allocate domestic and EU funds to the development of health benefits in the metropolitan and Pest counties, and to the infrastructure renewal of the institutions. In addition, the bill provides the source, inter alia, for the performance of public health tasks, for the continuation of health screening tests and for the purchase of vaccines. In the spirit of patriotic economic policy, the construction of the national vaccine factory continues, and we hope that the growing segment of domestic health orders will be met by domestic suppliers, thanks to the health support programme launched last year. I would just like to remind you that this year is still running, and in this context we are producing basic health products that have previously been produced outside the borders. I brought one of these medical masks with me. [[He's showing it to me.]] For example, this mask is now made in 300 million pieces in Hungary, and we used to buy this medical mask from abroad. Now we can not only provide ourselves with it, but also export it. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] Thank you for making Jobbik happy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, A few words about education. Resources for education exceed HUF 2100 billion next year. This represents an increase of more than HUF 735 billion compared to 2010. Expenditure on primary and secondary education and vocational schools will increase by more than HUF 100 billion next year compared to this year. Allow me to also address developments in the field of higher education here. In the new form of operation, institutions can operate more efficiently and respond more quickly to the economic needs of their region. This will enable young Hungarians to receive more competitive training and more valuable education in the labour market. Public scholarship training will continue to be provided at model-shifting universities, and teachers will receive performance-based, increased wages. State support for higher education institutions will therefore increase next year, but the revenues of the model-shifting institutions will no longer appear in the bill, in line with the Parliament's previous decision in this respect. Support for families. In recent years, we have achieved the highest proportion of Hungarian public finances in the European Union, the Hungarian budget in support of families, and we intend to maintain this situational advantage. The budget provides some HUF 2778 billion in support of families in 2022. This amount is nearly HUF 483 billion higher than the budget for this year, and next year the funding for support for Hungarian families is nearly threefold higher than it was in 2010. In addition to the family protection action plan, a number of other measures will help improve the situation of families in 2022. For example, we continue to maintain the family tax system, which employs one of Europe's lowest personal income tax rates, 15 percent, as well as a significant tax or tax reduction for children. [[8.30]] Freeing people under 25 helps young people to participate in the labour market, start a single life and start a family. The minimum monthly amount of 24 250 HUF is increased by more than double from 1 January 2022 to 50,000 HUF per month. The increase also applies to already paid and newly established orphan care. In recognition of the efforts of home care providers, we will continue to increase the cost of care and care for children. In the next year's budget, too, the home creation programme, including support for home renovation, family home creation benefits, as well as the reduction of the burden on families with several children with mortgage loans, as well as the promotion of tax refunds. In addition, we help families moving into a new home with VAT and tax exemptions in 2022. We provide more than 380 billion forints in next year's budget for the continuation of the home creation programme. Here, too, I would just like to remind you that we have increased the budget for housing subsidies by more than two and a half times compared to 2010. Social security and welfare services include, for example, a significant increase in the budget for sickness, unemployment or family allowance of HUF 430 billion, so that the sector can manage almost HUF 7000 billion in 2022. Dear House, Allow me to say a few words about the respect of pensioners. The essence of the government's pension policy is that pensioners, our parents and grandparents should also benefit from favourable economic processes, and they should be given priority protection in a more difficult situation. For this reason, the budgetary resources available for retirement will rise by HUF 255 billion to some HUF 4163 billion next year. The 2022 budget accounts for 3 percent inflation, thus increasing pensions and pension-like benefits from 1 January 2022. Next year's budget allocates more than HUF 68 billion to the pension premium to be paid in 2022. It is recalled that, under a previous rule, if the economic performance increases above 3.5 per cent, the State will have to pay a pension premium. This has been achieved under the Fidesz governments, and this will also be paid in 2022 for a 5% increase, which is covered. In addition, we provide HUF 160 billion to pay the second rate of the 13th month pension. The recovery of the 13th month pension over four years is therefore entering the next step. In the first step, in 2021, pensioners were entitled to a pension of one week in addition to the January pension, in 2022 they receive two-week pensions, in 2023, three-week pensions, and from 2024 they receive a 13th month pension equal to one month's pension each year in addition to their pensions. In addition to pensioners, pensioners are entitled to 13 months' benefits. In addition, we continue to ensure a reduced retirement allowance recognising the role of women in the family, so we continue the. Women's 40, and we do not want to withdraw from this either. In 2010, the government promised to protect the real value of pensions year after year. As a result, pensions increase on average by 48.1 percent between 2011 and 2022 and their purchasing power has improved by more than 10 percent. Finally, the government also supports older people who have reached their pension rights, but who want to remain active players in the labour market. For them, we will continue to maintain the social contribution tax and contribution exemption for pensioners' income in 2022, which will benefit them. Dear Parliament, Allow a few sentences on the issue of defence, as the budget continues to focus on defence and public security. We want to guarantee Hungary's safety under strong migratory pressure. The resources available for defence increase by nearly 30 percent in one year to more than HUF 912 billion. This means that defence spending will increase more than fourfold in the next year's budget compared to 2010. Law enforcement spending exceeds HUF 991 billion, which represents an increase of approximately HUF 542 billion and more than double compared to 2010. I would like to say a few words about wage increases, as one of the important elements of the 2022 budget proposal is that wages will continue to increase next year, with strong wage growth in line with the growth of the economy. The financial and moral appreciation of public service workers remains one of the government's most important goals, which is published annually in the bill presented at this time. In 2010, the state spent HUF 2612 billion on public sector workers' wages. Next year, this amount exceeds HUF 4800 billion, which represents an increase of some HUF 325 billion compared to this year. The highest rate of wage growth in health has been achieved compared to 2010. The amount of funding for healthcare workers' wages next year will be nearly four times higher than in 2010. In 2022, more than a thousand billion forints are available to pay healthcare workers, some 745 billion forints more than in 2010. As I mentioned earlier, the medical wage increase programme started in 2021. Based on this, by 2023, an initial resident's previous basic salary of HUF 255 thousand will rise to HUF 687 thousand, while a specialist with 40 years of professional experience will increase to HUF 525,000 for a basic salary of HUF 2 million,380,000. The salaries of those working in kindergarten, primary and secondary schools and higher education are also rising. For this purpose, some HUF 1045 billion will be available next year. The government will spend more than HUF 1041 billion on the wages of law enforcement and defence workers in 2022. Of course, this amount is much higher than it was in 2010. Dear House, In the use of EU funds, the aim is also to use them in a targeted and effective way for EU budgetary cycles 2014-2020 and 2021-2027. The programmes will be implemented accordingly, and Hungary will perform above the EU average in drawing funds. We want to continue this practice. In the case of grants from the EU budget for 2021-2027, a number of applications will be launched this year, and next year we have planned HUF 1100 billion for the payment of traditional cohesion funds, HUF 450 billion for the Restoration and Resistance Instrument programmes. For the latter programme, we are looking only at EU funding, not using credit. I must stress to my fellow Members that these negotiations have not yet been concluded, and are not over, so both the EU support programme for RRF and the seven-year development cycle are being negotiated. The Hungarian budget will lend and prefinance these subsidies, which we can reasonably count on, but we hope will be available after the negotiations are concluded. And we don't want to take credit. The Hungarian government, reevaluated and considered the development opportunities, decided to provide them primarily from domestic sources and, if necessary, from its own sovereign bond issuance. I must mention in particular rural development within EU funds i programme, the co-financing of which is increased to 80 per cent. This uniquely ensures the highest level of support that can be given to the development of rural economies, the greening of the Hungarian countryside and the achievement of climate targets. [[8.40]] The two EU cycles, i.e. the previous development period and the start-up period in 2021, plan to pay HUF 3000 billion overall and the government expects more than HUF 2300 billion of EU revenue to arrive in 2022. Dear House, Let me also say a few words about the funding of municipalities. The system of tasks and funding of local authorities has demonstrated its effectiveness in recent years: we have freed local governments from their debt and prevented their re-indebtedness. Central budgetary resources adapted to the tasks of local authorities will continue to be fully available next year. In support of the operation of municipalities, next year's budget bill includes some HUF 873 billion. This amount is more than the initial appropriations for 2021. As the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase in 2021 also affect municipalities, the government provides budgetary support for the payment of increased wages. In the context of the economic re-launch action plan, a number of investments and job creation developments will be launched in 2021. As the economy grows, local governments will also increase their business tax revenues, which will significantly increase the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities. We support the government's launch of specific programmes to support local investment next year and the implementation of specific programmes next year, which will also be covered. It should be recalled that the programme "Modern Cities" will continue to run, the coverage of the program "Hungarian Village" will also be available, but there will also be significant resources available to the settlements from the opening of EU programmes. The total value of these amounts is nearly HUF 600 billion. According to the bill submitted, the amount of the local government solidarity contribution will remain unchanged compared to 2021. In view of this fact and the expected rate of economic growth, municipalities could make a solidarity contribution of HUF 130 billion in 2022. This amount, based on last year's economic data, is HUF 25 billion lower than 2021, which further increases the local government's room for manoeuvre. All in all, municipalities can manage HUF 3220 billion the following year. Dear House, To sum up, the 2022 budget can be rightly referred to as the re-launch budget. Support for families and businesses, investment in job creation and the development of health and higher education all contribute to boosting the economy. The aim is to make Hungary one of the most successful countries in the European Union by 2030. The crisis will continue to be dealt with not by austerity, but by increasing subsidies and tax cuts, and the budget deficit and public debt will once again be put on a downward path. In view of this, I would ask you to discuss and adopt the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2022. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-4	I thank you, Minister, for your speech. Dear Parliament, The opinion of the State Audit Office will be presented by Mr President and Vice-President in a total timeframe of 30 minutes. I give the floor to Mrs Holman Magdolna, Vice-President of the State Audit Office. Madam Vice President, please.
u2021-05-19-5	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Minister and Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly, as the main representative of Hungary, accepts the central budget and approves its implementation. The State Audit Office, as the main financial and economic audit body of the Parliament, gives its opinion on the draft law on the central budget to the legislature. We have fulfilled this obligation of law with our opinion delivered to Parliament last Friday, which can be found before you and is also available on the Internet. It is important to stress that in its opinion, the Court of Auditors declares a specific state of budgetary planning, to which it assessed the regularity of the drafting of the bill, the soundness of the planning, the soundness and support of the appropriations, the eligibility of revenue appropriations and the adequacy of expenditure appropriations and the application of the sovereign debt rule. The aim of the opinion is to enable the State Audit Office to adopt a budget law meeting the requirements of the legislation in a few weeks' time. It is also important to state that the State Audit Office has assessed the soundness of revenue and expenditure appropriations on the basis of their consistency with the macroeconomic projections. The SAO did not assess the reliability of the macroeconomic projections that form part of the bill. Following the adoption of the macroeconomic projections underlying the bill, we prepared our opinion on the budget for 2022. Consequently, the achievement of revenue appropriations was assessed under the assumption that the actual evolution of economic developments did not differ significantly from the forecast in the projections. Dear Parliament, The draft law on Hungary's central budget in 2022 sets the total expenditure of the central government subsystem at HUF 28 505.2 billion, with a total revenue of HUF 25 352.5 billion and a deficit of HUF 3152.7 billion, consisting of a deficit of HUF 2514.8 billion in the domestic stockpiling budget and a deficit of HUF 637.9 billion in the European Union's development budget. The operating budget balance, as in previous years, is also zero in the 2022 budget. The justification of the bill shows numerically that the deficit of the government sector, calculated according to the European Union methodology, is HUF 3325.3 billion, which is 5.9 percent of the nominal GDP planned for 2022. The absence of a government sector, calculated according to the EU methodology, exceeding 3 per cent of GDP, is expected to be possible under EU rules for 2022. For the appropriations included in the draft central budget bill, the opinion covered 91.2 percent of the total revenue and 87.9 percent of the total expenditure. In the course of the opinion, the State Audit Office took into account the convergence programme submitted to the European Commission by the Government for the years 2021-2025. In our opinion, the legislative proposals and amendments submitted by 10 May 2021 and other data were taken into account. Dear Parliament, In our assessment, we have established that the Ministry of Finance and the planning organisations have complied with the legal requirements in the preparation of the draft law on the central budget for 2022, and that the structure of the bill is in line with the legislative requirements, thus meeting the requirement of transparent budget planning as required by the Fundamental Law. The State Audit Office found that the bill on Hungary's budget for 2022 was well founded. The planned revenue appropriations may be carried out and the expenditure appropriations shall be sufficient to carry out the public tasks. [[8.50]] 98.3 percent of the key revenue appropriations of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2022 are well-founded; 1.7 percent are partially well-founded. The fulfilment of 0.4 per cent of the principal revenue appropriations is risky. In the course of the audit, the revenue appropriations classified as partly well-founded amount to HUF 401.3 billion, the risk being HUF 98 billion, which can be linked to corporate tax. The direct revenue appropriations are justified and can be made available, with the exception of corporate tax, Union revenue for expenditure incurred in the years preceding the year and appropriations for other programmes 2021-2027, which are partly justified. 98,9 per cent of the key expenditure appropriations are sound, 1.1 per cent is partly well-founded, but they do not pose a risk to the performance of the public task. The partly established expenditure appropriations amount to HUF 279.5 billion, without risky appropriations. As regards expenditure, there is a risk that, in relation to the overall amount of expenditure appropriations for 2022, the rate of 45.5 per cent of the appropriations which may depart from the appropriations without change. Of this, partly well-founded appropriations amount to HUF 113.8 billion, representing 0.4 percent of the total expenditure. In line with the legislative provisions of the 2022 Central Budget Bill, the size of the government debt ratio planned for the last day of the fiscal year was determined, which is the same as the sovereign debt ratio according to the methodology established by the European Union. The reduction in the government debt ratio by 0.6 percentage points compared to the end of 2021 corresponds to the government debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law and to the requirements of the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary. Dear Parliament, The long-term sustainability of the budget is supported by a high level of investment, thus ensuring the renewal of capital and the development of the economy. To support this, the State Audit Office assessed the focus on the smaller area of certain public investments planned to be financed from the Economic Restart Fund, whether they could be rescheduled after individual weighing, on the basis of the actual run-off of investments and on the risks of key points in the process. Some investments can be delayed depending on their level of preparedness, in view of the commitments undertaken, so that expenditure can be reduced, thereby having a positive impact on the development of the budget deficit. The planning of the expenditure appropriations of the Economic Re-launch Fund, with the exception of two appropriations, is well-founded. Turning to central reserves, the amount of central reserve appropriations in the bill was HUF 233 billion, which increased by more than 10% compared to the previous year's appropriations. Additional reserves were planned for captive use within the Ministry of Finance chapter, as well as an additional reserve of HUF 559 billion within the Economic Restart Fund and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Investment Pre-Preparation Fund and the Investment Fund, as well as the Brexit Implementation Reserve Appropriations. The Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund shall include in one fund the resources and expenditure necessary for the control of the epidemic and the operation of the health care system. The expenditure of the Pension Insurance Fund shall include, inter alia, the 13th month pension to be progressively recovered from 2021. The revenue and expenditure appropriations of both Funds are well-founded. Dear Parliament, Now allow me to give the floor to President László Domokos, who summarises our conclusions and economic context in the opinion of the bill on the central budget for 2022. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-19-6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office. Mr. President, please.
u2021-05-19-7	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for presenting the most important findings of our opinion. Our aim was to separate these from our economic assessment of our opinion, which is why we chose to stand before the Parliament by sharing the budget exposition. The recent period has also brought serious changes from an economic policy point of view with the emergence of a coronal virus epidemic. In the year 2019, we were able to report positive developments in terms of consumption and production in terms of economic changes, but the year 2020 and the emergence of the virus caused macroeconomic shocks that led to a decline in the pace of economic growth. However, it is also necessary to see that positive processes have been launched again in a number of areas by 2021, supported by data provided by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. In 2020 and 2021, households' overall savings were significantly increased, i.e. they have sufficient purchasing power to make up for their delayed consumption. Of course, there is a question of whether household consumption has increased sharply or whether a cautious rise will occur. Continued real wage growth and certain public welfare measures can provide a clear incentive for the population to consume more. The year 2020 was a breakthrough in the domestic take-up of distance and home work, as this form of work has become one of the necessary means of combating the Covid-19 epidemic in order to reduce the number of contactees. Both employers and workers have experienced the advantages and disadvantages of this. This period can therefore be seen as a rehearsal for remote and home work, which undoubtedly required the covid-19 pandemic. The trend of labour flow from the lower income to the higher income sectors should also be highlighted; the flow of labour from the public sector to the business sector may continue, and the trend of more people returning from abroad to the domestic labour market than the number of people leaving the country will continue. What is particularly important is that employment will also be a central part of the further processes of the 21-22 years, as this was the economic factor that has been able to make a turn in the macroeconomic processes in Hungary. Allow me to quote here Jonathan Schattke, an American computer technician, "It is true that coercion is the mother of innovation, but creativity is his father, and knowledge is his midwife." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In other words, in order for an innovation to succeed in remote and home work to come into the world in this case, there is a need for creativity and knowledge, in addition to the compulsive situation. With the expansion of home work, digital knowledge is appreciated; and with the epidemic, digitalisation of public services and the administration of official affairs is given a new impetus, which not only simplifies administration, but also constitutes an important tool for preventing corruption and whitening the economy. On this basis, it is clear that work culture is undergoing a number of transformations. It can be described here, I think, in the government decision of 22 and in the confirmation of the Parliament that the exemption of people under the age of 25, the imposition of charges on products harmful to health or even the introduction of the polluter-pays principle in the State Rehabilitation System will help ensure the well-being of society, in addition to contributing to social and environmental sustainability. I think it is important to emphasise that investment plays a key role in the dynamics of economic growth, and it should also be stressed that investment is expected to grow further. [[9.00]] At the same time, if private sector investment recovers, government investment may result in overheating of the investment market. It has to be considered that domestic supply can only gradually run up, so a sudden increase in demand can lead to price increases and demand for imports can also increase. At the same time, this could facilitate the emergence of the masses of new innovative enterprises. Digitalisation and sustainability have become key factors in our lives. On the one hand, work in digital space, digital education, digital public services or a wide range of services are becoming an unavoidable factor in our everyday life, and society is increasingly adapting to the conditions of online space. On the other hand, sustainability has been given extensive meaning, not only for the environment, but also for social and economic sustainability. At the same time as the two factors mentioned above, it can be said that due to macroeconomic uncertainties, the resilience of the budget, i.e. its flexibility, is an essential aspect and appears not only this year but also last year. The aim of the flexible budget is, on the one hand, to ensure the well-being and security of its citizens and, on the other hand, to further strengthen the country's competitiveness by ensuring that it is prepared for unforeseen situations. Dear Parliament, As already pointed out by Vice-President, the State Audit Office of Hungary has carried out its legislative tasks under fundamentally changed circumstances due to the Covid-19 pandemic, in accordance with the Fundamental Law, and has prepared its opinion on the draft central budget law of 2022, which clearly focuses on the relaunch of the economy. It does not focus on crisis management, but on re-launching, i.e. there is a kind of modernisation behind the number of budgets. As is well-known to you, from 2013, after successful consolidation, the Hungarian economy took a balanced growth path. I could say that the country's economic independence has been restored, thus increasing the scope of its sovereignty. Thanks to several factors, economic growth has proved to be much faster than government forecasts every year. However, as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, this growth trend has been broken, and the relevant question at present is when the Hungarian economy will be able to return to the growth path. The key factor for budget planning in 2022 is the corona virus epidemic, the consequences of which could affect the prospects of the global and Hungarian economies next year. However, as I stressed in last year's expozem, Hungary had a healthy economy and public finances at the time of the outbreak, so the domestic macroeconomic environment could become more favourable quickly again, while remaining areas where restrictive measures need to be maintained permanently in order to deal with the epidemic. The possibility of further waves of the coronal virus epidemic could have an impact on the enforceability of our country's central budget for 2022, which, by the way, is being set aside in budgetary figures and provides financial room for manoeuvre and financial opportunities. In good times, this can be seen as a reserve and, in less bad cases, as a safety factor. As a result, in addition to ensuring the cost of control of the epidemic, measures are also needed to ensure the recovery and re-launch of the economy, which also have an impact on the sustainability of the fiscal balance. At the same time, the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule and the improvement of the fiscal balance represent a significant competitive advantage for Hungary in the short term. Let us recall that the global financial crisis that started in 2008 has already highlighted the fact that many countries are not sufficiently prepared to deal with economic shocks and that, as a result, the sudden economic downturn has led to a breakdown in the balance of their budgets and a drastic increase in their public debt and the poverty of the population. All of this has highlighted and still highlights the strengthening of budget responsiveness and, in other words, the strengthening of budget resilience. The basis for the interpretation of the budgetary residence is Article 37 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which states that the government is obliged to implement the central budget legally and effectively, with the effective management of public funds and with the provision of transparency. In the light of this requirement of the Fundamental Law, it is also necessary to ensure transparency of budgetary processes in addition to the flexibility of response. This means that, in the interest of resilience, it should be possible, on the one hand, to allow the bodies responsible for the implementation of the budget to deviate from the plans and appropriations set out in the Budget Act to the extent justified and permitted by law. On the other hand, these derogations and their reasons must be made transparent not only for Parliament but also for taxpayers. The SAO will analyse the events that have taken place in recent years and will soon publish how this has been achieved in the past; I think it is equally important for the future to meet these requirements. There are basically two factors that require flexibility in terms of budget implementation. On the one hand, revenue of less than or more than the appropriations may be achieved during the budgetary year. On the other hand, during the implementation of the budget, the execution of expenditure appropriations may be modified compared to the initial allocation; for example, an investment is moving more slowly or more persons will be eligible for one grant. The completion of revenue and expenditure appropriations may differ from the initial appropriations for a number of reasons. On this basis, the derogation may be over or underachievement during the year or at the end of the budget year. The reasons for the derogation include, inter alia, changes in the content and extent of the public service mission, changes in the customer base, the emergence of a new public service mission, changes in economic circumstances, for example, the realisation of higher than expected tax revenues resulting from higher than expected economic growth, or the occurrence of any other unexpected event. Dear Parliament, So, to sum it all up, why is the resilience of the budget important? From a budgetary point of view alone, I believe that there are two significant consequences to the Resiliency. One is that despite environmental changes, the main objectives of the budget are met. The second is that the budgetary bodies are able to carry out public tasks in a slightly changed environment, and the interim withdrawal or blocking of their appropriations for this purpose will take place only in the final case and can maintain the stability of the tax system, so that the government can contribute to the survival of stability for economic operators in a predictable economic policy environment. At the same time, the resilience of the budget increases predictability, thus giving more certainty to the rest of the economy. Compliance with the sovereign debt rule is also a factor that increases stability for businesses, the business sector, as the State does not generate additional demand for money, i.e. it does not push businesses and the public out of the financial markets. Consequently, the resilience of the budget is not a technical issue of a fiscal nature, but of serious economic policy importance. On this basis, we say that the 2022 budget gives flexibility to Hungary, its inhabitants and its entrepreneurs. The draft budget law builds on last year's economic protection measures and, in the context of the relaunching of the economy, priority will be given to areas that support the development of the economy and the long-term recovery from the crisis. The aim is to maintain protection against the epidemic, to protect jobs and create new ones, to support sectors of priority for families with children and for the Hungarian economy, but perhaps we can say that for all social groups, the budget of 22 offers an expanding financial opportunity. [[9.10]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. I close my budget expo by stressing that, during the period of economic downturn due to the epidemic, it is particularly important that the economy and the budget are resilient, i.e. flexiblely adapted to the development of macroeconomic conditions. It is therefore a priority that the implementation of the 2022 budget should be accompanied by continuous monitoring, i.e. managed management. Strong and active governance is now more than ever needed to successfully address ongoing uncertainties. And allow me to thank you here for the work of thousands of colleagues involved in planning, since all institutions, all municipalities, economic designers and professional leaders of all central organisations have participated in this work, and also allow me to express my thanks to colleagues at the Court of Auditors. And for the next few days, we wish you a meaningful professional debate, and we hope that the opinion of the State Audit Office will contribute to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the governing parties and the DK benches.]]
u2021-05-19-8	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, in a 30-minute timeframe. Mr. President, please.
u2021-05-19-9	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Minister, I thank you for the opportunity to summarise and justify the opinion of the Budgetary Council orally for ten years now on the draft budget law for 2022. The Council established and published its opinion on the draft bill to the Government at its meeting on 27 April 2021. The Government has provided a meaningful response to this, which I will address later. The Board, on the basis of its mandate in the Fundamental Law, examined the merits of the draft budget from the point of view and unity of its function; it analysed its macroeconomic background, revenues and expenditure in terms of sustainability of short- and longer-term equilibrium requirements and the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule. Dear Parliament, For the second year now, the Council had to take account of the exceptional circumstances caused by the coronal virus epidemic and the risks posed by the emergency in its opinion on the draft budget law. The Council reviewed the actual macroeconomic and general government developments in 2020 and 2021 as the basis for the evaluation of next year's budget. Please allow me, because I can't avoid reminding you very briefly of our findings on these matters as well as the history of the 2022 budget. It is a well-known fact that the global coronal virus epidemic has derailed the Hungarian economy from a balanced and strong growth path, which, unfortunately, has also seriously affected public finances. In 2020, the overall social product, GDP, decreased by 5 percent more than forecasting expectations, but compared to the previous excellent year. In particular, economic performance fell in the second quarter of 2020. The decline of more than 10 percent was largely dampened by the strong fundamentals, resilience of the economy and, no less, by the government's economic protection measures, as well as by the Hungarian National Bank's programmes to support market stability and economic growth. The large increase in last year's expenditure is clearly due to health and economic protection expenditure due to the management of the coronal virus epidemic. They could not be fully financed by additional revenues or internal transfers, so the Hungarian deficit in 2020 was considered to be average, although in regional and international comparison it was more than 8 percent. The deficit was outstanding in the fourth quarter, but it should also be added that part of the end-of-year expenditure was also a step forward, which could relieve the burden of financing the following years. In view of the epidemic, the Maastricht deficit criterion was temporarily exceeded by the discharge clauses which entered into force both in the EU and in the domestic fiscal framework, and as a result of the fall in gross domestic product in 2020, the basic law's exemption rule did not exclude an increase in the sovereign debt indicator. Dear House, The Council, as a direct base of the 2022 budget, analysed the expected macroeconomic and general government developments in 2021, including the impact of the coronal virus. The significant international organisations suggest an expansion of the Hungarian economy of around 4 percent, which is essentially the same as the government's prognosis, but there is a chance that this year, thanks to the successful start-up of the economy, we will see a better overall social performance. Hungary's ability to attract capital remains strong, the conditions are favourable, which help to renew and expand production capacities. The expansion of investment in the competitive sphere continues to be dynamic, with several large international, foreign-funded industrial projects continuing, and a number of capacity developments are expected to emerge gradually. The government's measures to support economic development, the use of EU funds and the incentive programmes of the Hungarian National Bank continue to support the investment activity of small and medium-sized enterprises. By amending this year's budget law, the deficit target calculated according to the so-called ESA methodology is increased from 2.9 per cent of GDP to 7.5 per cent. The Council agreed to increase the deficit target, as the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic calls for greater budget support for health and the economy than previously planned. The Council took note of the fact that the bill creates greater room for manoeuvre for government's health and economic recovery measures, but considered it necessary, if macroeconomic developments permit, to achieve a more marked deficit reduction than planned, creating more favourable conditions for a substantial improvement in fiscal balance in 2022, in order to achieve a sustainable reduction of the sovereign debt indicator. This year's and I add that next year's budget is conditional on the European Union's activation of the general exemption provision for the Stability and Growth Pact, which, in view of the exceptional situation, allows for a deficit exceeding the Maastricht criterion. The Government created this flexibility in a regulation and initiated the necessary amendment to the Stability Act. In line with the expected growth of the Hungarian economy, the debt-to-GDP ratio can again decrease from 80,4 percent in 2020 to 79,9 percent in 2021, as required by the Fundamental Law. [[9.20]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the budget for 2022 in detail, I would like to point out, first of all, that there is no substantive difference between the draft presented by the Council and the legislative proposal submitted, neither the cash flow nor the profit margin deficit has changed, and thus the nominal amount of projected public debt and the ratio of GDP remain unchanged. Thus, the opinion of the Council also applies to the bill submitted to Parliament. The Fiscal Council examined the elements of the macroeconomic path when assessing the merits of the 2022 budget. In addition to the evaluation of the State Audit Office and the National Bank of Hungary, the projections prepared by the European Commission, the OECD and the IMF were taken into account, as well as expert analyses carried out by the secretariat of the Council. In the focus of the draft budget law for 2022, as has been said several times today, there is a re-launch of the economy, the development of sectors of future importance, the protection of jobs, families, pensioners, the strengthening of support for home creation, and the improvement of people's quality of life. The aim is to create a rapidly adaptable and sustainable economic structure that supports development in the longer term. The Council noted that the budget is based on high economic growth of 5.2 percent. The expansion of the economy is supported by an increase in household consumption volume of 4.8 per cent and gross fixed capital formation of 7.2 per cent. Following developments already started and continued from EU and domestic sources, the investment rate has been very high in recent years, including 2020 and 2021, and may rise to 28.5 percent in 2022. Measures to support employment, which also rely on government and EU funds, can lead to an increase in employment of 1.1 percent, including 1.3 percent in the competitive sector, while the public sector remains unchanged. On the basis of the macroeconomic path outlined for 2022, dynamic wage growth can continue, with gross and net average earnings rising by 7.7 percent. The improvement in labour productivity may remain in momentum after 2021, with a planned rate of 4.1 per cent. Evaluating financial institutions expect a strong expansion of world trade in their projections, which can also give impetus to Hungarian exports. In addition to the existing uncertainties, it is hoped that the investments for export development started in the previous period will be sufficient, so that exports can be slightly better than imports this time, with the previous 10.5 percent and the last 10 percent. Assuming the tensions in the world are eased, the Council considered the expected economic expansion to be feasible. At the same time, it was important to point out that although mass vaccinations can provide the basis for opening up, there are still uncertainties surrounding the recovery from the crisis. Today, it is still unclear when the return to the former, normal economic and life - style will be complete. The re-launch should therefore also be supported by economic stimulus measures in 2022. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Council, the revenue and expenditure appropriations for the 2022 budget are consistent with the macroeconomic and general government processes expected for 2021 and planned for 2022. Allow me to stop here for a moment. In assessing the merits of the revenue and expenditure appropriations for 2022, the Council missed at expert level that the draft budget did not include the expected completion of the 2021 base year. I note that these figures have been made available to the Fiscal Council and that this information is presented to us on the main items already in the legislative proposal before you, thereby improving transparency. Continued with revenue, among the most significant groups, the payments made by business organisations, such as corporate tax, specific tax on small-scale taxpayers, small-scale tax; taxes on consumption, including general sales tax, excise duty, financial transaction tax, and public income tax, levies and social contribution tax and contributions to social funds, are normally higher than the expected performance of 2021, which will have the impact of the crisis on itself. At the same time, the Council considered it necessary to indicate that if macroeconomic expectations are not met or partly met, the effects of this will be reflected in the achievement of revenue. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to stressing once again that it still does not classify the distribution policy in the budget, the Budget Council felt the following in terms of expenditure. In 2022, the budget will continue to focus on the control of the epidemic, for which the necessary resources, together with the operation of the health care system, will be provided by the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund. Expenditure also highlights the objectives of family protection and home-building, renovation and the improvement of the income situation of pensioners. One of the first priorities, however, is the re-launching of the economy. In addition to tax reliefs, the new economic re-launch action plan aimed at achieving the objective has activated domestic budgetary resources, the economic re-launch fund, including the Economic Re-launch Employment Fund, and the available EU funds. The re-launch measures provide for structural change in several areas with improvements that support the growth of the economy in the long term. In addition to the appreciation of these instruments, the Council considered that, in the event of a dynamic increase in household consumption and private investment activity, incentive measures could result in overheating of the economy, increasing inflationary pressures and endangering the external economic balance. The Council considered that, during the period of the economic downturn caused by the epidemic, the expansion of government spending clearly improved the economic resilience. In 2022, however, as we have heard, the resilience of fiscal policy already requires flexible adjustment to the development of macroeconomic conditions, which could mean both increasing or reducing budget expenditure. The need for pro-cyclical fiscal policy will be removed, i.e. expenditure will not have to be reduced in the event of adverse GDP developments, but may be increased, while in the event of a rapid rise in the private economy, budget expenditure will be reduced and, consequently, overheating can be reduced by improving the balance. On this basis, the Council would consider it appropriate to make the use of certain expenditure appropriations conditional and to spend it only if it is absolutely necessary to dynamicise the economy. [[9.30]] In this way, under favourable economic conditions, part of the planned expenditure could be saved or postponed, taking a greater step towards restoring the fiscal balance, reducing public debt or covering unforeseen expenditure without increasing the deficit. The Council supported the reduction of the increasing deficit in GDP by 2022 compared to the 7.5 per cent plan in 2021, but, in line with the above and the proposed amendment to the budget law of 2021, it did not consider it sufficient to reduce its deficit to 5.9 per cent both in terms of profit and cash flow, recognising the scarcity of room for manoeuvre. The Council concluded that, in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the downward trend in the sovereign debt ratio will remain stable after the transition growth in 2020 and will decrease from 79,9 per cent in 2021 to 79,3 per cent in 2022. Although the Council noted that the reduction of 0.6 percentage points was in line with the sovereign debt rule and the provision of the Stability Act, it considered its level to be limited in line with those indicated in the deficit. Economic recovery, which began in 2021 and we hope, will allow for a greater reduction in the debt ratio. This is also necessary because mitigation under the basic law can be achieved even if a less favourable scenario occurs. At the same time, the Council agreed that public debt management would continue to maintain in 2022 a favourable structure achieved in recent years, a low share of foreign exchange debt, an increase in public participation in the financing of public debt and an increase in the duration of public debt. The Council noted that the central sub-scheme of public finances remained a major part of its expenditure divided into three large groups, almost 80 per cent of which still serve operational purposes in 2022, while domestic funds are planned to be used for stockpiling tasks as well as for EU-funded developments at a rate of less than 10 per cent. It continued to consider that the balance of the current operational part is zero in the fifth year, and a cash flow deficit can only arise in the stockpiling and the EU budget. At the same time, the Council considered it risky that the level of reserves for the security of budgetary management was only 0.4 per cent of GDP, which is lower than the low level planned for 2021, including 0.5 per cent of GDP. Dear Parliament, The government's response to the Council's opinion is included in the annex to the bill, and I will therefore only comment on it very briefly. In response to the Council's proposal to reduce the deficit-to-GDP ratio and the sovereign debt ratio to a greater extent, the government replied that, even in 2022, they wanted to do their best to restart the economy by means of fiscal policy. In his view, the achievement of an optimistic but realistic growth path is a condition for the implementation of the fiscal policy he has planned. They also want to provide the necessary resources to support families. At the same time, the government considers fiscal stability to be a key asset and believes that, in the medium term, the decline in deficit below 3 per cent and the faster reduction in the sovereign debt ratio should be re-introduced and increasingly marked after the successful relaunch of the economy. The government also responded to the Council's call for a low level of security. It considers the planned reserves of over 300 billion to be sufficient, given that they should be accompanied by an increase in their amount, either by an increase in the planned deficit or by a reduction in expenditure in other areas. According to him, the amount of reserves planned for 2022 will provide sufficient collateral for the reduction of the debt ratio in the event of an expected increase of up to 1 percentage point. The Council, as you may have seen, has always in its opinion developed and developed its opinion as a priority in the interests of maintaining financial stability and minimising the risk of financing. It also did so in the case of multi-faceted, other-plane, possibly justified steps related to the management of the central budget deficit and government debt, the provision of reserves, the proportion of resources invested in investment. On this basis, the Fiscal Council notes that the Government intends to implement important social policy and economic incentives for the future in the planning of the objectives and appropriations of the 2022 budget, which are guided by them. At the same time, the Council considers its recommendations aimed at a more marked reduction in deficit and debt rates to be justified in order to restore the balance more rapidly, avoid overheating of the economy, and recommends that Parliament be given consideration. Dear Parliament, At the end of my comment, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and his colleagues for their far-reaching support for the Council's work. I would like to thank the staff of the State Audit Office, the Hungarian National Bank, the secretariat of the Council, the asked analysts and experts of certain economic institutions for supporting the broad technical basis of the Council's opinion through independent, alternative macroeconomic and public finance model calculations and sensitivity studies. Dear Parliament, Thanking you for your attention, I wish you good work in discussing the proposal of the 2022 Budget Act and the related amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-10	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. During the discussion of the bill on Hungary's central budget in 2022, the Vice-Presidents of Parliament are expected to participate in the debate. Members of the Vice-Presidents shall, in the event of their opposition, be allowed to hold the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, and it agrees to allow us to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my proposal. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[9.40]]
u2021-05-19-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, A pessimist sees the difficulty in every possibility; an optimist sees the possibility in every difficulty. This Churchill quote could be the motto of the budget submitted by the government on the table of this House in 2022, which is the budget for restarting Hungary. The economic challenges of the coronal virus epidemic were successfully addressed by our country when we launched one of the most extensive economic protection programmes of all time, the main aim of which was to protect jobs. The challenges posed by the coronal virus epidemic give Hungary a chance to become one of the winning countries of the new world economic era after the outbreak, as the Prime Minister has said, we have to get ahead of it in a turn. In this way, we will launch the economic re-launch action plan, the largest economic development programme in the history of modern Hungary, which is also about starting life again, in addition to restarting the economy. We want to make sure that all our Hungarian compatriots are winners of Hungary's development. The economic re-launch action plan allows everyone who has been put in a difficult situation to recover. We want everyone who has lost their job to be able to get it back or get a new job. Our goal is that any entrepreneur who had to close his business can restart it and even develop it as far as possible. In 2022, as Minister for Finance Mihály Varga said, in the framework of the economic re-launch action plan, a total of HUF 7308 billion will be spent, which is 13 percent of GDP in next year, i.e. gross domestic product. This amount, ladies and gentlemen, in the European Union apart from us, only the Czech Republic and Germany will spend the next year on re-launching the economy. The action plan will not only create jobs for the Hungarian people, but it will help Hungary to make an outstanding European comparison again. Hungary will be able to count on more than EUR 51.3 billion in the EU financial cycle starting from 2021. Thus, EU funds will have more than HUF 3000 billion available specifically for development purposes in 2022. Of this, the EU's recovery fund is a significant item, of which HUF 450 billion will arrive in Hungary next year. Dear House, Families and children are the future of a nation, so in addition to the so far family protection measures, we will continue to expand the support of families with children and children. New elements are also coming in the framework of the home creation programme, so we will expand it with new elements as well as the old ones. Since 2010, the government has increased the support of families by two and a half times the highest share of gross domestic product in Europe. I think we can all be proud of that. The budget will be available next year for HUF 2780 billion to support Hungarian families. In this context, young people under the age of 25 are exempted from payment of personal income tax after 1 January 2022. With this, they will be the second class of society in Hungary, which will be paid tax-free, and my fellow Members will remember, for the first time from this year, mothers who have four or more children received this benefit, which, I think, is also unique throughout Europe. Businesses and people working can count on the support of the civilian government in 2022. Instead of tax increases and restrictions, which are common practice in left-wing governments, labour taxes and the continuation of investment programmes will be reduced in Hungary. From 1 July 2022, under the 2016 agreement with employers and employees, we will reduce the level of taxes and levies on wages by another 2 percentage points, leaving more than HUF 250 billion to Hungarian families and businesses, helping to get out of the crisis. Based on data from the period before the Crown Virus crisis, Hungary was one of the most dynamically developing economies throughout Europe. Thanks to government measures and the economic recovery after the coronal virus epidemic, the performance of the Hungarian economy can be increased by 4.3 percent in 2021 and 5.2 percent in 2022, and it is very important to note, ladies and gentlemen, that, as the Minister said today, these are not optimistic but rather conservative calculations, we can expect that the growth of the Hungarian economy will go beyond these expectations in the future. By mitigating the epidemiological restrictions, achieving adequate grafting, the re-opening of service sectors, labour market and consumption can also lead to rapid recovery. Employment could increase by 1.1 percent in 2022 and net income is expected to increase by 7.7 percent. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that in the last five years Hungary has performed outstandingly in wage increases, even during the crisis, wages in Hungary have increased by nearly 10 percent over the last year. This means, therefore, that more and more resources are coming down every year with the Hungarian population, thanks to God, that they can live in better and better conditions. Overall, as the figures show, it is expected that household consumption will continue to grow, and we expect an increase of 4.8 percent, which will further support economic growth. Since 2010, the government has done everything in its power to express its appreciation for the elderly not only at the level of legislation, but also through concrete measures in their interest, not only in words. The second phase of the 13th month pension taken by left-wing governments in 2022, and, as the Minister mentioned, thanks to the performance of the economy, the pension premium may also be paid in 2022, which will amount to HUF 230 billion, which will be paid to pensioners. The opposition's continuing concern for pensioners is very surprising given the fact that left-wing governance has decided on a number of measures that have been a major blow to the elderly. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, in 2009, the 13th month pension was taken from 2.2 million pensioners, and the real value of pensions was significantly reduced: during the Gyurcsány government, the real value of pensions decreased by 8 percent and under Gordon Bajnai by 6.4 percent. Dear Parliament, With regard to sectoral resources, the budget of 2022 will have HUF 2884 billion available for the operation of health care. This is 1700 billion forints higher than the last budget submitted by left-wing governments in 2010, which will be an outstanding HUF 770 billion more than the budget spent this year on health care. Compared to 2010 levels, therefore, more than two and a half times as much money is spent on health as left-wing governments have done before. I should mention here that left-wing representatives, who also fear for health care, completely bled out this sector during their administration, practically bankrupted Hungarian hospitals with a debt of HUF 130 billion. Instead of helping to control the epidemic, they created chamomuvides, campaigned against vaccines as anti-vaccinations, and prevented protection by continuing to produce false news. Left-wing governments, honourable Members, have taken 650 billion forints from health care, one in eight active beds have been eliminated and six thousand six thousand! A medical worker has been dismissed. This is simply scandalous, fellow Members. As the Minister of Finance pointed out, in terms of wages, the Hungarian budget will be outstanding next year. In 2010, the then left-wing budget spent HUF 2612 billion on public sector workers' wages, compared with more than HUF 4800 billion in the bill before you next year. This, ladies and gentlemen, represents an 85 percent nominal increase compared to 2010, and next year the public sector workers will expect some HUF 325 billion more to pay. [[9.50]] In terms of wages, the highest rate of growth may not have been a coincidence in health care. Compared to 2010, expenditure on health wages increased nearly fourfold. Next year, my fellow Members, there will be HUF 745 billion more resources, or more than a thousand billion forints for healthcare workers than it was in 2010. Based on the medical wage increase programme started in 2021, by 2023, as Minister pointed out, a resident will earn HUF 687 thousand instead of HUF 255 thousand, and a specialist with 40 years of professional experience will earn HUF 2 million,380,000 instead of HUF 525,000. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the sector deserves priority support. I would also like to thank all health workers for the incredible achievement they have done in recent years to save the lives of our fellow citizens in hospitals. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our most important task after the coronal virus epidemic is to restart the Hungarian economy. The support of Hungarian families and businesses, the creation of job-creating investments, the extensive development of health and higher education infrastructure all contribute to giving the Hungarian economy a boost that will bring Hungary to the top five countries of the European Union by 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the Government has set ambitious targets, which we, the representatives of Fidesz, support to the farthest. Remember that when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in 2010 that Hungary will create one million jobs, the Hungarian government will create one million jobs in Hungary. Then our left-wing fellow Members laughed at that. Ladies and gentlemen, Time has confirmed us. The goals that we set for the Hungarian economy to grow year after year by year with a double of the EU average, and our goal is that every Hungarian person who wants to get a job and work can work, we have completed last year, and the pandemic has not been able to throw us back in this, because the economic re-launch programme, as Prime Minister said, will achieve as many jobs as the crisis caused by the epidemic has taken away, we will create so many jobs in Hungary, and everyone will have the opportunity to work again. The figures I have told you, ladies and gentlemen, prove that the left has tried to prevent us from dealing effectively with the crisis, and that the Hungarian government has also performed the best in crisis management in the EU Member States. As you can see, we are not only leading in Europe through grafting, but we are the first to take the best possible measures in the area of re-opening, so that not only the Hungarian economy can start over as quickly as possible, but also the life and quality of life of our countrymen, Hungarian citizens, can also improve significantly. What I see, ladies and gentlemen, is that next year's budget will add to all areas, just as the budgets of the last few years have done, and, in line with its performance, support for priority areas remains the most important, namely the strengthening of Hungarian families, Hungarian pensioners and Hungarian businesses. As a summary, I can also tell you what recent years have proved: success has a price, not a secret. I am very confident that the government's ambitious plans will continue to be successful next year, because it is in our interest. Of course, Fidesz will support the budget submitted to Parliament. Thank you very much, Minister, for the draft budget and thank your colleagues for the sacrifice they have done in this area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-19-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, another lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-19-13	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary of State! Dear fellow Members,
u2021-05-19-14	Please take care of the sound. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-15	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, If we wanted to talk about the 2022 budget in three words, the re-launch budget, then we would think of the three words that could be planned, consistent and respected. The budget proposal before us, in line with the government's seventh-year tradition, has been submitted again this spring, which I believe to be in the spirit of predictability, which is why it is important that the actors who are waiting for the budget also value this submission in a more difficult period of time, since they feel that they can help their work in a predictable way. It can also be predictable that yesterday's Parliament has discussed the tax package, and today we are continuing to work with the fiscal law, making our work more predictable for all of us next year's work. Hungary's economic and fiscal results before a coronal virus epidemic provide a sure basis for mitigating the negative effects of the epidemic, but the negative consequences are still significant. As of March 2020, the recession that has developed as a result of the corona virus pandemic has brought about an increase in unemployment worldwide. Like we always said, when there's work, there's everything. Therefore, from the start of the epidemic, we have stressed that we do not want to give aid, but we want to preserve jobs, and we also want to subject the aid policy to this. I believe that the elements of the economic re-launch action plan will help the Hungarian economy to cope successfully with the challenges and to return to a dynamic growth path in as short a time as possible. Maintaining a high level of employment and stabilising the labour market has played a major role in the protection of jobs introduced to address the effects of the epidemic. However, once it has recovered, employment growth and labour demand in the economy are once again highlighted. Although we are discussing the budget for 2022, we cannot simply go past yesterday's recent national product data published by the HCSO, which gives us reason to be confident about our prospects, as this data has greatly exceeded the expectations of all experts. The fact is that in the first quarter of 2021 the performance of the Hungarian economy was 1.9 percent higher than the previous quarter, adjusted seasonally and calendarly. The most optimistic individual forecast was only a 1 percent increase, and the 1.9 percent increase is also a particularly good one. We hope that the real recovery will come after that. At the same time, I would like to point out to the budget next year that the government is committed to relaunching the economy, and therefore the tax and contribution measures started will continue. We believe that work should be encouraged rather than punished. We are well aware of this tax system, which is appropriate, but we also know the opposite of that when it encouraged tax avoidance and encouraged entrepreneurs to do black work, because the key thing to their survival was to do business when it was the standard business model that companies had to establish their registered office on paper in Slovakia for tax optimization. I can't be that theatrical, but I hope you'll remember the sentence when one of the famous words of the then Prime Minister said: "You can get out of here." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Fortunately, the Hungarian people did not ask for any of this, so the civil government has always believed in reducing taxes and contributions on the work, and has also submitted a draft budget for next year. [[10.00]] I would like to mention some of your details, including those that serve this purpose. The employer's tax burden on wages will be further reduced by 2 percentage points from 1 July 2022, resulting in a reduction of the administrative burden and a reduction of 0.5 per cent in the social contribution tax. The benefit of returnees to the labour market automatically helps workers who lose their jobs as a result of a coronal virus epidemic. The employee shall be exempt from the payment of the social contribution tax and the vocational training contribution up to the minimum wage during the first two years of employment and in the third year the social contribution tax shall be reduced by 50% to the minimum wage. In order to encourage investment, the limits on the amount of the development reserve in corporate tax have been abolished in a multi-stage process over the past period. In 2020, the 50 per cent profit margin of the development reserve was also removed, thus allowing the use of development reserves up to the total amount of pre-tax profits, taking into account the HUF 10 billion ceiling. In order to encourage investment by smaller companies, the ceiling for the development tax reduction will be reduced gradually from HUF 500 million in three steps starting in 2020 and the third step will be completed on 1 January 2022. After this date, small businesses can already benefit from a development tax reduction of at least HUF 50 million in present value and at least HUF 100 million in present value for medium-sized enterprises. I left it for the last time, but perhaps the most important thing is that from 1 January 2022, young people under the age of 25 will receive a personal income tax exemption for their employment. We are convinced that this will also seriously encourage employment and help young people to start their own lives. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the 2022 budget, I would like to highlight several times, but it cannot be repeated enough that pensioners will now receive the two-week share of the 13th month's pension, i.e. half of what the Bajnai-Gyurcsány government took away from them in 2009 under crisis management. The financial appreciation of public service workers will also continue, i.e. the funding of the initial career plans will be available, so the multi-stage medical wage development programme launched in 2021 will not stop. Dear fellow Members, The 2022 budget, which has been said several times, has once again been set back to zero, which means that the amounts of revenue and expenditure are in proportion to each other, and we can only talk about a deficit in terms of development and in view of EU money. I think this can be a serious security for everyone, because it shows that the person who has already prepared a family budget knows precisely that if revenue and expenditure are not proportionate, then it doesn't matter what kind of credit they take, the loan is only worth developing. Overall, we can conclude that the proposal before us will help the Hungarian economy as a whole and the financial situation of families and Hungary to restart as soon as possible. I, too, thank the Ministry of Finance for not only the budget for 2022, but also the crisis caused by the pandemic, and we have accepted the amendment of the budget for 2021 last day. I would also like to note here that this was an amendment that actually meant only a plus for the Hungarian economy and people, because it included measures in the 2021 Act which the government had taken under its own authority during the emergency, so that by means of this legislative amendment they could be added to the budget. I would particularly like to thank the Budget Council for its opinion on how it has managed to break down a long-standing opposition mantra, namely that it has facts on the 2022 budget that can be compared. I thank Árpád Kovács for mentioning this, and also for the fact that the Ministry of Finance provided these data in the submitted material. As a result, I think that in the next few days, Members will have the opportunity to hold a serious debate on the budget law tabled. At the end of this debate, I would like to ask my fellow Members to launch the 2022 budget and to propose its adoption on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group also indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Anita Potocskanyány Kőrösi. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-19-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Last spring, I stood in the same position, and when I negotiated this year's budget, I said to the budget for 2021 that this is a budget for revenge. This seems to be confirmed by the government's measures over the last five months, because what else could we call this budget, when the measures are announced to make the last bastions of democracy, the local governments impossible; only because most Hungarians have decided to choose opposition settlements for themselves. You are terrified that your system, built in the last 11 years, will fail next year, which is why theft has been enacted and institutionalized, and that is why you will save the nation's thousands of billion forints. And today, given the numbers of the 2022 budget, this is nothing more than an election campaign budget. I drew attention last year to the fact that the effects of the economic crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic will ring down to the Hungarian people, and this has happened: the runaway property prices, the runaway food prices, inflation and the loss of jobs have put hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families in a hopeless situation. And while you paint the picture of the country in your alternate reality through government propaganda that everything is all right, believe me, the Hungarian people feel the Hungarian reality on their own. Of course, I am not talking about the families who, because of their close relations with the government, received public money billion dollars in aid to save their businesses, but those who had been locked up in their business. You can talk about 5.2 percent economic growth next year or 5.9 percent budget deficit or even a reasonable 3 percent inflation, we know that paper can handle everything. Then it can be amended, as has been done with this year's budget, as macro numbers have gone so far that the transfer between the budget lines has not been bridged. [[10.10]] Despite all this, the budget has been presented again this year with the closure figures for 2020 not yet available, so we do not have the possibility to properly compare these appropriations. So in the 2022 budget, we're just groping in the dark, and knowing the government's economic policy and budgetary morale, we already know that this time the central budget was just for the showcase. You can also call the Economic Restart Fund the 550 billion forints that could really help small and medium-sized enterprises, but unfortunately we can see that this exists only with you and only at the level of words. The winners of the Public Procurement Act and the tender system are those close to the government who have bought hundreds of billions of public money from the joint in the last eleven years, even though every company should be given the opportunity to emerge from the economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic on equal terms, and thus provide a livelihood for hundreds of thousands of Hungarians in Hungary. Of course, I am not talking about multinational companies, with which strategic cooperation agreements should have been reviewed a long time ago. But what can we expect from the government that has made our country a country of assembly plants in recent years, over the past decade? Minister Mihály Varga called the budget for the re-launch in the ministerial expozee 2022. With this, you will admit that since the end of last year, we are rebooting the economy and the slogan is very long, and we can talk about more than two years. It is clear from the 2022 campaign budget that propaganda is planned for 18 billion forints next year on blue billboards and pseudo-national consultations to mislead the Hungarian people. Not to mention that more than a hundred billion forints are dedicated to the operation of public media, which has been for years only to strengthen their own alternative reality. They will continue to bleed out the municipalities. They collect nearly 130 billion forints from them in the form of solidarity contributions, HUF 90 billion in their own income that they could collect as a motor vehicle tax earlier, and we find that we do not even know what their fate will be next year. The government's objectives are clear: they want to establish an additional dependency relationship between the mayors and the Fidesz Members of Parliament. You punish the opposition-led settlements and continue to advocate political discrimination for years. In opposition-led settlements, every means is used to create obstacles to investment and development, but unfortunately, in several places fundamental operation has already been compromised. The allocation of resources for the new EU budget cycle, the programme "Modern Cities" and the framework of the "Hungarian Village" programme are suitable for policy-based discrimination between municipalities. There's definitely no brakes in the system. The 2022 central budget lacks professionalism, legitimacy and fully serves Fidesz party policy objectives. We now see that during the 2022 election year, you will release the budget even more than you did at the end of last year, when we have faced the highest public debt and the greatest deficit in the last decade. The Ministry of Finance may submit any budget to Parliament if it can no longer control its enforcement. By dismembering the tasks of the Ministry of Finance and transferring powers to other wallets, they set off on a government road that will be untenable in the future. Hungarians are the great losers of the financial policy of the past few years. The government did not provide sufficient reserves during the period of economic activity prior to the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic and spent available resources in its own interests. As you can see, the government does not want to change its economic policy in the coming period, they insist on supporting government-related economic operators with billions of public funds. Instead of unbridled spending, luxurious and pretend investment, reasonable, prudent and responsible economic measures must be taken for future generations. Instead of building stadiums, hospitals and schools need to be renovated. Tax policy instruments should support economic organisations in line with the principle of common burden-sharing. Instead of multinationals, the SME sector needs to be prioritised. National property, whether state or municipal, belongs to all Hungarians, and must be protected by all means. The 2022 campaign budget is unacceptable. As in recent years, the Jobbik Group has tabled hundreds of amendments to this budget this year. We put amendments on the table, which are indeed proposed by the Hungarian people to the Parliament, in the interests of the Hungarian people. One of the first tasks of the new National Unity Government, which was established after the 2022 elections, will be to change the budget, in which the focus will be on Hungarian families, Hungarian workers and Hungarian economic operators instead of the oligarchs. Prosperity and freedom for all Hungarians! Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-19-18	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, another lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-19-19	Mr President, Dear House, Unfortunately, for years, the battle of separate opinion bubbles has been a budgetary debate. As the government, in my view, tries to send a production report to its own 2 to 2.5 million opinion bubble, the opposition is obviously trying to demonstrate the reality they know. In this spirit, I say that we are dealing with the cruelest budget in Europe, because the patriot, the national-looking glaze or syrup that they are trying to pour down on this whole thing, by the way, sounds good, and we often hear words that warm my heart in this circle. However, if we look at the nugget and get a little deeper than the apple peel, we can see that none of these statements are as beautiful as they seem, or that none of these statements are true in the way they were described. In the beginning, we are sitting here in terms of a budget planning with a bad tradition, because the budget is the government's financial plan, yet according to some perverted logic, it is trying to plan Hungary's future in a very, very early period without any facts or accounts. The government itself, poor Secretary of State, who is a professionally well-prepared man, was in a position to defend the indefensible a few weeks ago, since the previous budget had to be modified as if the basic numbers had to be rewritten due to premature and faulty planning. In fact, they wanted to ask the opposition for a blank cheque of over a thousand billion dollars in the course of the amendment, which you will decide what it is spent on and in what form. In Europe, I think it was an unprecedented procedure, and we do not know much about another European country, where such a budgetary attitude and such a government attitude would be seen. I mention the absence of the n-2 rule, which has been mentioned for years and which I have often quoted from Professor Nyikos, because it is mandatory to mention it, but unfortunately, the fact that only the year 2022 is in the air during the planning process is getting less and less visible in the government's action plan, as professionalism is becoming less and less obvious. Let's see what the Secretary of State and the government are asking us to do, what we should approve, and obviously this will show that we are not planning to approve what lies ahead. Non-profit civil society organisations and public bodies support the Prime Minister's Office wants to spend 17 billion. Who? For what purpose? To accomplish what? They don't write it down, they don't detail it. Support for cultural development, heritage and other tasks, HUF 12 billion. Who will be the beneficiary? Who are you going to give this to? What do you want to spend it on? It's not in your budget plan. They're throwing in the ten billion without proper support. We do not even rule out that the priority allocation of the other operating expenditure of the HM heading of 111 billion or the other operating expenditure of the Hungarian Defence Office of 169 billion serves meaningful purposes. Maybe it's for meaningful purposes, so let's not discuss it. But your budget plan is inadequate for a Member of Parliament to determine that. [[10.20]] So your professionalism can't be measured in this area, because, once again, you want to have blank checks signed in bulk. Government infocommunication services request HUF 70 billion from taxpayers next year. Who? For what? Who will be your beneficiary? Who would you like to put in a position by these sums? Ministry of Finance, 93 billion-dollar provisioning. For what? Transport sectoral programmes The government is asking Parliament for HUF 144 billion. To carry out what? We are beginning to understand the support of non-state higher education institutions. There are 172 billion people here, and there is obviously a special support to some of the outsourced institutions. In order to compare, I note that last year's total expenditure of the municipality of Pécs did not reach half of this, for example, it amounted to HUF 78 billion. So you can see how the government prioritizes, but we do not often see the support of institutions that are very dear to us. The rural development programme accounts for 115 billion, in fact without any description or support whatsoever, without informing Parliament about how much money the rural people can expect and why they do. The Prime Minister's Cabinet Office would like to build major social relations for HUF 18 billion. Who? For what purpose? What projects? And who will benefit from this? Let's face it, Mr. Secretary, I can give you similar examples by morning. This is not budget planning, and what lies before us is unworthy of professionals. Let us note, for example, that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank paid Hungary a dividend of 250 billion, after its profits last year. Where can all this be found in your budget planning, and where can your use be found, the plan on which this expenditure may be spent? And we also see that too early planning involves a mass of professional errors. Let's look at inflation figures: in the year 2020 Hungary met with the not-so-excellent situation that in some segments of the EU we were able to catch the second largest inflation in Hungary. It seems to me that you have an unusual interpretation of prevention in the turn, because in terms of this data, we may actually be able to get ahead of it this year, and the products are the most expensive in the whole of Europe. There is a debate about this, in a public discourse, where more cautious estimates, let us say, are talking about inflation starting by 4 percent, the braver, or perhaps more negative than 5 percent. However, the increase in pensions is only 3 percent in this draft. So again, the government's plan doesn't meet with reality. What we see is that, while one of the most important indicators of living standards is to anticipate an increase of 7-8 percent in net average earnings, you know very well that some 1.5 million Hungarian workers are missing from your statistics, the worst earners are still the worst, there is a lack of employees of companies with five employees, self-employed people, self-employed individuals, and, unfortunately, our fellow countrymen with lower levels of earning less, who could draw this statistics closer to reality. But they still claim that you believe that net income will increase by 7-8 percent. We also see that, according to KSH, there is an average salary of HUF 400,000 in Hungary, which is a joke, so in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg it would not be possible to say this in a residential forum. In terms of household consumption, however, the government is more cautious, and it is closer to reality, as it is planning only a value of more than 4 per cent. So he probably knows that there will not be as much wage growth in the Hungarian economy as distorted statistics project. And I have to say, when I call the package before us the cruelest budget in Europe, I think that total social groups are left out of planning. In addition to the fact that this government has assisted the eviction of 18,000 of our countrymen, and has temporarily announced the eviction moratorium under enormous opposition pressure, the government is creating a social disaster against which Jobbik, as a Christian-social, right-minded people's party, is proposing amendments to the concept of a triple shield. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: The walls are breaking!]] Fortunately, the first element of this has been achieved, Mr Secretary of State, you have listened to reason, and after 18,000 evictions, the transitional package which, I stress, provides a temporary exemption has finally been announced. At the same time, we want them to listen to sound words about the credit moratorium. On the third day of the crisis, Jobbik came up with the idea of a credit moratorium, and then you thought for weeks about how to do it. Something has been accomplished, and that's good, but our plan didn't include small prints, hidden mines, and bombs like the ones that got into the final package. Jobbik's plan did not include that if someone uses the moratorium for 11 months, his credit could be extended by 24 months, and, say, an increase of 1.4 million forints. We see, therefore, that, although there is no interest rate, banks are looking for you at the credit moratorium by playing with interest rates and maturity alone, and with a lower rating of debtors. Jobbik didn't submit the idea of a credit moratorium to look for banks, but to free people. I therefore call on you to stop serving the banking system unconditionally, not to look for anyone on a protective package, but to serve the safety of the Hungarian people. So take the fine prints out of the credit moratorium and extend them for as long as the epidemiological emergency lasts. Thirdly, Mr Secretary, your budget planning talks a lot about families, and otherwise it is right, because the direction would be good, but it allows hundreds of billions from the other pockets of families to be highlighted on items that could be managed by this budget. I'll give you an example: in terms of the enforcement procedure, the government has not submitted a law prohibiting the imposition of 33 percent and 50 percent bans on minimum pensions and lowest salaries. In the middle of the whole epidemiological situation, when the masses of Hungarians lost their income or part of it, you allowed the most difficult people in the ranks to face the bans of executives. Once again, even in the case of the smallest pensions, 50 percent may be taken away by these teams, based on questionable or real claims, this is a subject of debate many times. As the third point of our triple shield, therefore, we do not want to see executive bans up to minimum pension and minimum wage levels, but rather the guaranteed minimum wage level, up to the level of meeting basic needs in our world this is unacceptable. Minister of State, I am also a big supporter of the system of family tax incentives, but I cannot assist and I will not give a few tens of thousands of forints to the families on one side, if possible a few tens of thousands of forints plus one, two or three children, and the other pocket allows the Government of Hungary to leak one and a half to two times this amount. Let us look at what items; and let us not think specifically about the social sphere, but in a way that concerns all Hungarian citizens. 27 percent VAT, my fellow Members, on the vast majority of basic foods and on the totality of child rearing articles! So it is said that family tax breaks are given in one pocket, but on the other hand, diapers, baby food and articles that are essential for raising children are the most taxed throughout Europe. So what we see is that in itself a measurable amount is taken out of the pockets of families, unduly, and for 11 years. Do not be called family-friendly by the government that has the most brutal criminal tax on child-rearing articles throughout Europe. And it wasn't the governments before 2010 that introduced 27 percent of these VAT, but you, after you lied about reducing 25 percent VAT and raising it to 27 percent. Shame and shame, I don't know how they can look into the mirror after all. I would also like to say that there is a painful lack of a single - parenting programme and the benefit of our fellow countrymen who are raising a child in difficult circumstances. The government is beginning to sense something, because yesterday there was a three or four year delay in the debate about how to get behind-the-counters a little easier to get to the families. But here, too, only the government could apply a liquefying solution. Jobbik's proposal is that, in the case of unpaid maintenance fees, Hungary will give the entire amount to the family that has raised the child concerned, and then collect it on the person who has failed to pay. But even here, you couldn't come up with a logical, simple and transparent solution. We also see that the conscious weakening of the forint, which has existed since 2010, is obviously not specifically and strictly the subject of budget planning, but the government's assistance in this area is undisputed. And what we see is that the Hungarian families pay a very large part of this price, as the brutal weakening of the forint increases every imported product. Under your administration, this means a 100-forint weakening. And even if we buy domestic-produced goods, which I am a big fan of, it can also be said that, in the case of a domestic apple or agricultural product, the foreign and cultivation machine, certain types of sprayers not available in Hungary and other imported products that are required to be purchased, the domestic product is also increased due to weak forints. [[10.30]] I understand that you wish to favour multi-company companies and therefore tolerate this weak forint, but this does not create the appearance of a patriot government, but is one of the methods of living in the future. And we also see that while Hungary is being transferred into a thousand billion-dollar Russian loan into megaloans, in connection with the Chinese university, a 450-billion-dollar investment in Budapest-Belgrád is not to mention insane investment, they are much more than possible for multi-business companies, while Hungarian SMEs only get a reduced loan if the intermediary bank decides to do so. For example, a billion-dollar amount is granted to the Audi who has exported thousands of this amount in the form of dividends from Hungary. He probably doesn't need all this. At the same time, we also see that they do not open to the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises segment. They allow much more money to be taken out of the pockets of Hungarian families than they do with the benefits of family support. Not only did they contribute to the deterioration of the social safety net, but they accelerated it. Total social groups are left out of budget planning, and the artificial trench-making policy they have been doing for 11 years to dig trenches between Budapest-rurals, young-olds, Hungarian-Hungarians and Hungarians will continue to serve only two and a half million people in the opinion bubble. So all this is the budget for eating up the future for the various benefits of the present, but we also see that everything will be fasted and that in a year's time the voters will probably also give an opinion on what lies ahead. Instead of multinationals, we would like to favour Hungarian SMEs. We would like to give all Hungarian families a discount and finally create a united nation instead of your exclusive, if any, pension benefits for your minions. Hungary is pointing this way next year, which is the only way it can point. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-19-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-19-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Lords of the President! Mr. Secretary. As a pro-government speaker, I have the opportunity to hear several speeches. Minister Mihály Varga has given me what I've been accustomed to for many years: an economist has calmly assessed the figures as politicians, he said that it is difficult to talk about the budget without numbers, but he has clearly explained the social policy visions behind the government's numbers, to which he subordinates the budget "22." Then I had the opportunity to listen to the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Fiscal Council. This is where we are most placed: there is never another law before Parliament, where, in addition to our internal debates... we mean our internal debates that the debate of the government, the government side and opposition representatives is the birth of that law. There is one exception: the law relating to the budget, when non-governmental people, representatives of two institutions, state their position on the budget and put us in a position to do so. I'd like to respond to two statements. President Árpád Kovács was quite critical, but I am grateful for the sentences he said: he spoke about overheating of the economy in order to restore balance more quickly, so that such a situation could once arise in Hungary. With regard to the negotiation of a budget, we hear that if there is too much money at the same time in the economy, there are dangers and I share this, and I would like to mention this, but still music to my ears, that I can live to see such moments, knowing that during the socialist period, let us say, what budgets we could negotiate. And, of course, I also have the opportunity to respond to opposition representatives. The leaders of Jobbik have made their point. I am not going to respond substantially to that because they clearly made their point as two budget slogans. At first we heard that this is the budget for revenge, after it is Europe's most cruel budget, said the second speaker. These are allegations that have no basis for reality. It's not worth arguing with, so let's just leave these allegations in the air. Mr Z. Kárpát, on the other hand, I would like to respond positively to the sentences of Mr Dániel when he criticizes the implementation procedures for the second time. That's what he did to change budget 21. There, too, I basically agreed with your position, and I still share in part these criticisms that you are expressing. Implementation procedures do produce life situations that could be prevented by a more stringent regulation. I'm hoping a lot from the office we're going to set up, which will also have jurisdiction over enforcement procedures. In order to remember the possibility of a response, I would like to hold on to the sentence of President Domokos that there is a need for strong and active governance in a crisis situation; monitoring the budgetary processes in 2022 and, if there is strong governance, he is obviously able to respond to this. This is especially true in a crisis situation. If a government can't do this in a crisis, then there's a big problem. But I also say that strong and active governance is always needed. We have been living in such governance since 2010, and therefore this crisis, this unprecedented crisis, this health crisis, which is destroying the economy worldwide, because we had strong governance before it, affects the Hungarian economy in a very different situation, triggers very different reactions from the government and the Hungarian economy than the 2008 financial crisis. We now know that it was a simpler crisis than the one we have now, and yet there, in the absence of strong and active governance, because there was only one drifting socialist government in front of it, only the compulsions also worked in the context of crisis management. At the time, we were living in a period that was typical of the global economic crisis when the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian economy were in the worst possible state, so this crisis swept us away. Greece was clearly swept away, and we were saved from total drift by receiving 20 billion from the IMF, the World Bank and EU assistance. At the last moment, the country was saved from bankruptcy, but there were also conditions for this, because the Hungarian budget was actually dictated by international institutions, and their position was that this crisis had to be dealt with with with with austerity. How different this situation is now when, after a strong and active budget, we are faced with a health crisis, an epidemic that will bring the economy down, and yet we are not forced to move like the weak socialist government that was forced to live in that crisis situation. Here is the point of the matter, and here I refer to a sentence of Michael Varga: he made a comparison. He said that between 2014-19, the Hungarian economy increased by 4.1 percent on average, as long as the European Union only increased by 2.1 percent. This tells us it's a catch-up period. If we can make this permanent, Hungary will be able to catch up with more developed worlds in Europe. Let's face it self-critically that since the change of regime, the country has been able to produce few of these periods, and it has not been able to produce at all, but the budgetary and economic period that has been experienced since 2010, and obviously we, who have experienced this, have at last achieved that Hungary is growing dynamically as the average of the European Union. That's what we want to protect. The real question for us is when we put together the numbers of the economy and plan the budget at the same time, so that this happy state, which we desperately achieved, can be relive as soon as possible. That's what everything's been about since 2020. I have to reach back by 2020 because in the spring of 2020 the epidemic reached us, it was an incredible setback, we had no idea how long this would last. Think of our 2020 thoughts. We've been thinking that this is a one-time shock, and we're gonna get through this quickly. Today we know that this is not the case. Today, we do not carry the Philosopher's Stone in our pockets in connection with an epidemic. We're afraid of a fourth wave. Everything has its potential, despite all the inoculations, so the President of the Court of Auditors is right when he says that we need to monitor the processes and react quickly to them. [[10.40]] We were able to do this in 2020 because, after a very large fall in the first quarter of 2020, the budget was practically corrected in the third quarter. This was measurable at the time in the number of unemployed, and by the end of the year we were able to employ about the same number of people as we were employed at the beginning of the year. The central issue of the whole crisis management was still: preserving jobs and creating new jobs despite all crisis situations. Today, in 2021, we see an increase of 4.3 percent. Obviously, much depends on Hungary's ability to restart the economy in relatively time for the first time in Europe due to good vaccination figures, several weeks before they may do so in other European countries. The success of this is obviously a key issue in realising growth. Building on these growth figures, the 2022 budget is projected to increase by 5.2 percent. I'll bring you another number for 2021, this is the investment rate. It was never possible to say such figures in relation to the Hungarian budget, which was already found in 2021: an investment rate of 27.9 percent. If we can keep these high figures, and therefore we encourage investment in every way, this suggests that in the future these investments, when they work, will permanently stabilise the Hungarian economy in a situation of relatively large economic growth. In order to list the main framework figures on which this budget is building, I have already mentioned that we are calculating a 5.2 percent increase in GDP in this budget for the,, 22. We expect inflation to be 3 per cent; the deficit is projected to be 5.9 per cent, and in 21 it is still, right, 7.5 per cent. This is where I can go back to the sentences of Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Budget Council, and the Fiscal Council says that perhaps the planned deficit could be reduced better. Obviously, opposition representatives will say that we are not doing this because it is an election year, and if they say that, I will partially give them the truth. So, on the one hand, I think it is rational to put more money into the economy now, that is what Europe does. That is why they have suspended the never-questionable state of affairs, and I am thinking of previous states, that there is a 3 percent greater deficit in planning a budget, is this sacrilege that the European Union has now given us the encouragement to do so. Of course, it is a matter of discretion how quickly we return to 3 percent, because we obviously want to return. We do not want to calculate for a long time either by 7.5 percent or by 5.9 percent, because this would obviously mean long-term debt. But I think that we now need these extra money, these public manifestations of the budget, and I, as a pro-government Member, say that if you consider this to be an aspect that we are facing elections, then I say that yes, we are facing elections. This motivates me to think; then, at the end of my speeches, I will give you some joyful songs about my own constituency. If the government didn't think that way, I might not be able to tell you the numbers that only concern my constituency. The budget for re-launching the economy, we say, is the budget for 2022, unlike the budget for revenge, and the most cruel budget for Europe. In support of figures, it is an incredibly beautifully sounding large number: 7300.962 billion, so more than 7,000 billion, 7300 billion forints just to restart the economy. And if I look at the numbers within this, I can conclude that 423 billion of them will be realised in the Hungarian economy by the government not taking this in because it has reduced burdens. With regard to home creation, I can refer here to the VAT and tax exemption, which means 170 billion savings for economic operators; the exemption of people under 25 leaves 140 billion for families and stakeholders; and it is also possible to reduce labour taxes despite the crisis: in 2022 it means 113 billion savings, which the budget does not take away from economic operators. If I look at how much domestic resources and EU funds are mobilised within the economic re-launch action plan, I see the joyful figure that we use more national resources than EU funds. I still remember the budgets where only EU funds were available for development at your time, because the domestic economy was in such a state that it could not produce almost anything for development, we were always dependent on EU funds. Now the domestic source, the national resource, is greater than the EU resource; it is 3833 billion to show just the order of magnitude. Some of these items include: investment fund 550 billion, employment grants, training 434 billion, the second stage of 13 months' pensions and pension premium 228 billion. Let's stop at the pension premium for a moment, though it's worth talking about both. With regard to socialist crisis management, when international institutions dictated to the Hungarian government because there was never a strong and predictable government before, among other things, the socialist government was forced to take away the 13th month pension previously granted from the Hungarians. This is now being rebuilt by the government: in 2022, pensioners can count with two weeks' extra resources. And the pension premium is not self-evident either, Hungarian legislation knew the institution of the pension premium, and it was said earlier that if there is more than 3.5 percent growth, pension premium is due to pensioners. Only those who were entrusted to the country at the time, before us, socialist governments never performed figures that should have paid this pension premium. Our government has now been paying a pension premium for years because this is the legal procedure, because it is the right one, but basically because the Hungarian economy has produced more than 3.5 percent in terms of growth for many years. That's how we calculate again in 2022, and we're going to pay the pensioners a pension premium. Of course, the program of modern cities, the program of Hungarian villages, continues. We are going to spend 462 billion on infrastructure development in all aspects of the country, despite the spectacular developments in recent years, and I could add to it: sport, culture, agriculture, and so on and so on. And, of course, there are 3000 billion EU funds. In line with the current order, these funds will obviously be used through programmes launched by different ministries in a tendering system. There will be spectacularly more money for rural development. Congressman Z. Karpat says that in Szabolcs-Szatmár it is perhaps impossible to say that Hungarian average earnings are 400 million. You can say that they doubt that in Szabolcs-Szatmár, they doubt that, even in Baranya, if I say such a number, but it tells me that this 400 million comes out of it, that in Szabolcs-Szatmár and Baranya there are very little or much less in the wallet, but there are more dynamic parts of the country, let us say, Budapest, where there are much bigger numbers, because this is how the average comes out. That is why in the coming period we will have the ambition to provide more resources for agriculture and the countryside in general, so that in Szabolcs-Szatmár and Baranya we will be able to... [[Csaba Hende: 400,000!]] 400 thousand, yes, my fellow Member whispered, I am talking about 400 thousand in terms of average salaries, so that they can sense these relatively nicely-sounding average salaries in the Hungarian countryside and realize them in their wallets. If I look at some areas, what are the main and key areas of this budget, then obviously, as we have already represented the creation of jobs, I will stop here again for a moment. [[10.50]] It is now well felt in the context of crisis management, so I could say that since the pandemic has come upon us, how different you think about the government side crisis management and how different the left-wing ones are. For the left-wingers, what I have left may be my fault that there is nothing else left basically to think that the crisis must be dealt with in such a way as to spread resources to many. The classic example of dispersal would have been what one opposition party has been pushing strongly until recently has now changed a little bit, this minimum income, so if we had to, we should have provided some income for everyone without work. Then such words are to give income to virtually everyone by giving them 100,000 forints because they are inoculated. I think they wouldn't produce results. On the other hand, the essence of our crisis management is that we want to tackle the crisis by giving it to many, targeted groups, but it is in the focus of everything, even these, that it is there to create jobs, because it is the only thing that promises lasting growth. When it comes to family support, as in a very priority area of the budget, it is obviously possible to mention and mention this in Europe for years, perhaps one of the most favourable ones is the personal income tax number, 15 percent, and we add that, in addition, children's families are encouraged separately through the tax system. There are few places to say that mothers who have four children are free of personal income tax. What we are about to do is that young people under the age of 25 are also free of personal income tax until they are 25 years old. Orphanage, patient care, increased support for sick children are all good figures. Here I mention a item, I feel pressure from countless places as a representative, that in the coming period there is likely to be an increase in the care of those who are not raising a sick child, but care for a sick relative. I know it's harder to take this question, but the pressure is incredible on us as individual representatives. I therefore believe that this too should be reconsidered in the coming period. But in the system of family support, of course, we include matters around home creation, which put the family in a position, and when I say that family support and home creation, it is already obvious that we want to give support to important, privileged groups such as Hungarian families, that we also want to create jobs, because when we tell Hungarian families that you can get 3 million forints in credit to renovate your house, we can actually talk about that in fact, that you are starting such an adventure, creating jobs or keeping jobs alive, and that is the focus of our thinking. Mr Secretary, this is one of the most successful measures, by the way. In every settlement in my constituency, it is immediately apparent that a roof is being repaired, that energy investments are being made by families in the villages, that there are several constructions on the same street at the same time, and this is all the result of the measure. And I could tell you more about the measures that belong to the home creation circle, but all Members understand that perfectly. Supporting priority sectors in the 2022 budget; I will not repeat the figures that Minister Varga has said in relation to health care and specifically in relation to education. In all comparisons, these amounts increase spectacularly compared to the previous ones, and of course, we can always make a comparison that three years ago, or don't give, God, how much the then government spent on these items in 2010. It may be said by opposition representatives that such comparisons do not have any reality or justification. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Van...]] I'm saying there is, I'm not going to repeat it, I'm just suggesting that we provide spectacularly more resources in these areas. And then, when a budget is matured, the individual representative is obviously working in it, and here comes again the questions that the President of the Fiscal Council said: if too much money appears at the same time in the Hungarian economy, we overheat the economy, then this too has risks, and he says that the deficit could be reduced more quickly. And I say that we are now living in the years when there is room for this money in the economy, but how much the government does not think very differently than what President Árpád Kovács said is showing me how we are reaching out or not touching the EU's borrowing potential. We too feel that there are now resources for the Hungarian economy. The opposition would expect us to take out those loans immediately, without necks. [[Constant intervention from the opposition benches.]] And we're thinking long-term, and we don't want to be indebted at all costs, and if we don't touch those loans now, we haven't given up on it for a lifetime, because we're going to be able to do that for some items later. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And Mihály Varga had another thought that I would like to attach to. At a time when, in the context of the correction of budget 21, I did not know how much I wanted to say here, which Minister for Finance Mihály Varga has now brought up, I just could not say, I do not consider it sacrilege that, when considering the issue of borrowing, one of the alternatives is to use or not make use of the borrowing facility provided by the European Union to all of us. But there is also another alternative, and this is again linked to the fact that we have managed normally so far, and therefore the financial markets recognise Hungarian performance. Well, we can get loans without the European Union today on more favourable terms, and in such a case, in the case of the government, I will also consider taking on the EU loan how much the European Union dictates in this regard. I'm surprised at how much you dictate. The European Union has introduced a legal institution that has never been an unprecedented practice before. Now I see that the economic policies of the countries are being defined from the centre in Brussels. This is not just a joint loan, it is Brussels who decides what we can do with these amounts. And I therefore say that a normal alternative is to consider taking loans on good terms from the financial markets, and keeping the question of what makes sense and what doesn't make sense in the Hungarian government's consideration. Although the performance of the Brussels non-existent economic centre would tell me that Brussels is always worth following in this respect, because it always shows me the right path, Brussels' crisis management performance does not justify this to me. Therefore, I say that deciding these issues in the competence of a national government is a completely possible alternative, not giving up the opportunity to use this borrowing opportunity later on. Well, what would President Árpád Kovács say if we just realized these loans without a neck and poured them on the Hungarian budget and on the Hungarian economy? We are talking about so much money that, in the short term, can't be used rationally, so the caution that the government represents, I approve. And then in the final round of thought: how does it affect my constituency if there is an abundance of money, and things can happen in a constituency that is marked by a motorway construction in Baranya, East Baranya, in the electoral district of Mo-Hács, of HUF 90 billion. This is the biggest development of the last decade involving Baranya. The development of the Mohács port starts from 8 billion forints. Days ago, the Minister of Agriculture visited my constituency, and only in East Baranya he distributed 30 billion dollars of aid to farmers in a tendering system, which means the renovation of livestock farms. It is a very visible amount of HUF 30 billion in a district. The Hungarian village is located in 103 settlements in my district. [[11.00]] There is no settlement that has not been able to implement at least one program, most have accomplished much more. Referring to the budget for revenge: our country mayor in Homoroud... [[To intervene:]] very close to the thinking of the speakers [[Mrs. Potocska, pointing to Anita Kőrösi, who is leaving the meeting.]] ; Anita Kőrösi is leaving the meeting room right now, so our country mayor in Homoroud was able to carry out five projects. Now, that's how much the opposition-led municipalities are punished. I could also talk about the use of TOP sources in my own constituency, but the implementation of the Bélyi Sports Hall and Swimming Pool is already under preparation, Villány's connection to the motorway, the Danube Bridge investment in Mohács is under preparation, it will be an investment of a magnitude even greater than the motorway investment, and everything we call the Mohács 500, is under preparation. Now, this abundance of resources that we have now and in the coming period has its effect on all settlements, and it is an unprecedented opportunity for East Baranya to create large infrastructure, and for a great memory political event, which gives us the opportunity to spend billions and spend rational tourism, what we call the Mohács 500, is also being planned. Thank you, Mr President, for having the patience to listen to both you and others. Thank you for your attention. Of course, KDNP supports the adoption of the budget. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-22	Thank you very much, Congressman János Harghitai. I salute my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position in the 30-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, who is going up to the pulpit. [[It's happening.]] You have the floor, Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2021-05-19-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Studying the budget ahead of us, you can say that I have some good news, and I have some bad news. I'll start with the good, there's money. We have heard from our fellow Member of Harghita that there is money in this budget, that there would be a guarantee that the Hungarian people will finally live better. There would be a guarantee that the minimum wage would be exempt, not only those under the age of 25 would be exempt, but everyone who earns under the median wage below HUF 321 thousand will have an increase in income and the minimum wage will be exempt. That would improve the lives of nearly 2 million 300,000 people. Minimum wage earners would get 25,000 forints more a month. The budget for this is approximately HUF 250-300 billion, if you look at the expenditure side of the budget, that is 1-1.5% of it. Providing this amount would not be a problem for a budget of 25 000 billion. It would also be possible to ensure that the unemployed receive a net benefit of at least HUF 100,000 per month for nine months. And there's money for public workers to get minimum wage. But we also have the money to catch up on the low pensions, because we, socialists and social democrats, are convinced that a safe living is also due to older people. If you've worked a life, you can't spare a life when you're old. We want the poverty of old age to stop and the low pensions to catch up. We believe that it is not normal for about half a million elderly people to suffer under the minimum of living, but two thirds of pensioners to receive less money than average pensions, this is not acceptable either. Nor is it acceptable that the Fidesz-KDNP government has put pensioners on a poverty path after 2010. For the elderly, the pension system has been changed extremely negatively and unjustly. They eliminated the mixed indexation, saying that inflation is the only thing that matters now, that the increase in salaries is not taken into account, even though pensioners pay the same prices in the store as those who live on the salary, but do not benefit from the results of economic growth. On the other hand, we want the pension increase to be taken into account, in addition to inflation, the rise in earnings, and the share of the pension increase calculated on the basis of wage increases will be given to all pensioners in equal amounts. We want every pensioner to receive the 13th month allowance for the same amount, because it would be fair. You have to raise your minimum pension, because you can't even make a living from 28 500 forints, according to Marcell Zsiga. There's money in the budget for that, too. But there is also the money to ensure the livelihood of families, to eliminate the disadvantage of women. Because we Socialists and Social Democrats believe that a stable society is the basis for a secure livelihood for families, which requires increasing family support and ensuring that they are of value. That is why we want the amount of the family allowance that has remained unchanged for 13 years to rise to double. We also want low-income families entitled to tax relief to receive additional family allowances. We want the amount of child and child to rise radically, and the value of all family support benefits to be guaranteed by law. We want the state to encourage the issuing of mandatory father months of children to help women return to work after childbirth. We want the tax relief for children, the benefit of mothers with four or more children, the benefit of those under 25 years of age and the first married person to remain. Because we want a just country, we want every woman to get the same salary as men for the same job. We want women to continue to retire after 40 years of employment and to be entitled to a widow's pension. There is money for this, too, and I have the funds, my fellow Members. But we also have the money to get the health care system that Fidesz destroyed from the top of his head to his feet. There's the money in the budget that could pay off hospitals' debts, make sure there's a general practitioner in every area, increase the salaries of nurses, health professionals, and start reducing mile-long waiting lists, whether it's screening or medical intervention. We also have the money to start rebuilding the education system that Fidesz has broken down, so that we can significantly increase the pay of teachers, so that we can get back up to 18 years of education and give back the educational freedom of teachers. It is also possible for municipalities to decide on their own revenue for the benefit of the people who live there. 'Cause let's just say we're done eviscerating local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, That's the good news: there's enough money in the budget that we all pay for, by the way. But the bad news is that this huge amount of money in the budget is not what Fidesz wants to use for these purposes. It is not important for Fidesz to reduce the huge inequalities within society, it is not important to eliminate injustices. For him, it is not important for the state to give everyone a chance to live, even though a budget should serve this very purpose. Fidesz says it's a budget for starting the economy, but as I look at the specific distribution of money, it seems like a letter has been left out. This is not a budget for the start-up of the economy, but a budget for the start-up of fidesz wealth. But if we study it better, perhaps it is best to say that this budget is a budget for revenge or a budget of indefinite indebtedness. Fidesz doesn't spend our tax dollars on what it's supposed to do. While the whole country is struggling with the crisis caused by the epidemic, you will take on a loan of HUF 15,000 billion with almost nothing for people but debt repayment. The Hungarian people are forced into debt slavery in Russia and China, and the money taken is either stolen or spent on their whims. That's the meanest budget I've ever seen. But let's look at what the budget for fidesz revenge looks like. Let us begin by saying that you want to save on education, even though you know Albert Szent-Györgyi's warning: the future will be like today's school. On this basis, you are going to have a rather miserable future for this country. [[11.10]] After all, he wants to spend much less on future education in the Fidesz rates in 2022 than in previous years. It is clear that education will be the big loser of next year's budget. Education costs are falling as a percentage of total expenditure. Dissemination of education is a burning of the country's future. Even after 11 years of government, civil servants are still promised a raise. Meanwhile, the leaders of Fidesz are pouring hundreds of billions into Paks II or Budapest-Belgrád railway line for their own enrichment. I often get the feeling that they're only doing this so they don't have to spend money on people. You are not building, but punishing this country; just as you are punishing local governments because they cannot forgive you for losing the municipal elections. According to the budget of next year's Fidesz revenge, they want to collect from the settlements a so-called solidarity tax of HUF 130 billion next year. This was only HUF 43 billion in 2020. The more than a hundred billion-dollar disease control fund could be renamed as the penalty box for the opposition settlements. It is a rather discredited explanation that everyone has to contribute to the control of the epidemic, since this fund has no income other than the tax on motor vehicles taken from municipalities and the special tax on the retail sector. The reduction of trade tax by half is also evidence of a fidesz vendetta against municipalities. This is about 150 billion forints of damage to local governments and people through them. And these are only withdrawals, but the funds shown in the budget also show the revenge of Fidesz who is about to fail. In the case of aid to municipalities, there is a significant share of the same or even smaller amounts as last year. Since you are expecting 3 percent inflation next year and the forint is also brutally weakening, even the amount of aid that is unchanged is actually a reduction. For example, support for the children's meals of municipal authorities. For years, the total amount of holiday meals per dose has been 570 forints for the worst-off settlements, while food prices have been brutally increasing. This means that next year there will be a reduced amount of food for children. Do they really want revenge on the kids, too? The amount spent on the programme "Modern Cities" is also decreasing. In 2020, there was still 135 billion HUF support for this purpose, and next year only HUF 50 billion will be spent. Meanwhile, companies of the Orbán family, which are fattened at Lőrinc Mészáros, will receive a multiple of these. Social expenditure is also less than it has been before. Compared to total expenditure, they give less for family allowances and children's benefits, only 2.9 percent more than the 3.1 percent so far. And in your ratio, they want to give less for pensions. Last year, 17.8 percent of the total expenditure was spent on this, but next year only 16.3 percent were planned to be paid for pensions. This is a clear message for pensioners to expect from Fidesz next year. There are also fewer allowances, maternity or temporary invalidity benefits. In fact, there is also a reduction in the allocation for maternity support, which means that you are counting on fewer children to be born. So even you admit that your government is a failure, and you can't say that the government is committed to encouraging childbearing, because your own numbers tell you exactly that it's a lie. Under Fidesz, Hungarians do not grow, but lose weight. The budget for fidesz revenge has not increased the amount of public health services for 16 years, nor will there be more for children in need. As a result of inflation, the value of the family allowance, children, children, maternity allowance, baby bond and pension minimum is further reduced. Fidesz does not increase or even continue to tax the minimum wage, which is already one of the least in Europe and indeed the least in euro. And the health department's on the fritz. Because of the Fidesz, there are long waiting lists. The Fidesz government has chased away almost 5,000 doctors and nurses in the middle of a raging epidemic. Even the purchase of life-saving products and devices is of their own benefit, even though people's health cannot profit or save. Ladies and gentlemen, This can't go on! Hungary must be built, not looted. People need to be helped, not avenged, as Fidesz is now doing. The MSZP has a concrete plan to rebuild this country. We have exactly what we need to spend more on and what we don't. Believe me, the Hungarian people work well and much, the evidence is here in this budget. If people's taxes were not wasted on stadiums, hunting exhibitions, space exploration, football academies and thousands of other useless things, 99 percent of Hungary would have the money to live better and not just the privileged 1 percent to get richer. Tax-free minimum wage, double-up family allowance, higher salaries and pensions, high-value family allowances, better and more predictable life for everyone is covered here, in this budget. However, in order for this to happen, there is only one way, Fidesz must fail, because this budget is not Hungary's budget, it is the budget of the fidesz looting. Fidesz represents Russian and Chinese interests because they believe that they can save their power with the money of dictators. And now they feel that failure is coming, they're burning the future. We are struggling so that the future of Hungary can be decided by the Hungarian people. We need to get rid of the Fidesz government, whose members are just filling their own pockets and running a vendetta against the citizens of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP will do everything in its amending debates to at least reduce the damage caused by Fidesz and protect people from the vengeance of power. The more people stand by us and the more people support us, the more certain we can be that this budget is the last one that Fidesz has put on the table in the country. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-24	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Attila Mesterházy MSZP, who also presents the position of the group of the MSZP, and that is what he does about his place, as I see it. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-19-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fraction Manager gave a comprehensive picture of the problem with the budget according to the MSZP fraction, and also gave an answer to what we would do to change this budget if it were in our power. Therefore, I have the opportunity to put my opinion in a little context with what has been said so far by the authors. What I'm very sorry about is that Minister left the room right after he gave his speech, he left Mr. Secretary of State as a hostage. [[Defiance.]] And as I look at it, the other speakers, after they've spoken, left the room, so there's probably not going to be much debate about the keynote speech. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There are no better men in there, for example!]] However, some things should be put in context, as they have been said. The first is that it is very important for us to say that you have always been very good at labelling and in various PR actions, because you have a huge media machine for this, to tell you what you think is real or in your political interests. That doesn't mean I want to tell you that the truth isn't. We have heard here that Hungary has never actually had such a good budget, and even one government has never been able to make a budget as good as what you are doing, in fact, whatever you are doing is perfect. It's more perfect than anyone else in the world. Therefore, the whole world will actually follow Hungary, because their economic policy, their social policy, their fiscal policy are so fantastic, and they do not understand why Hungary is no longer the world's leading power in this respect, as the Fidesz government also gives us the opportunity to do so. The other thing is that there is an election budget for this, too, my fellow Member from KDNP has spoken for a long time, because everything that can be said is being released in this budget, the government debt, the budget deficit, so what they need to be able to start a major spending is the budget in question. I do not necessarily say this as a criticism, and every government has a tendency to handle these numbers more freely before the election, and I simply say as a finding that you are not in any way different from previous governments. [[11.20]] But what is certainly different, and the faction leader has already referred to this in much more detail, is that there is indeed a significant difference in values between what we say and what you represent, or what we represent and what you represent, this is a major difference in social policy. I would say that your social policy is a perverted social policy, perverted by giving it to those who already have it, who do not need it or need it at all. What we say, however, is that we need to start support from the bottom up, we need to give the most to those who have the least, who have the least interest in reducing social differences, so that we can give everyone an equal opportunity to unfold their potential. And perhaps it is worth mentioning how your former minister, your representative, feels about this, because then we are not just saying that we are saying this, but I am quoting your words: John Lázár said that whoever has nothing and who has not done anything in life is worth so much. This is your social policy. It does not occur to you that a person could be in a situation without his own fault that he could not fulfil his potential to provide his son with a Swiss bank account because he was not in a position to receive education because he was not born in a settlement, he was not born in a lucky settlement such as the majority of the settlements in the district of my fellow Member of KDNP. So, yes, there is a significant difference, and I think that my KDNP fellow Member, Mr Hargitai, had a comment in Freud, and he defined the average wage in 400 million forints, which was a slip of the word, but he still expresses that you are probably thinking in this dimension. Well, according to press reports, Lőrinc Mészáros has just had a 500-pound vault installed in his house, so there's a lot of stuff that can be packed in the average Hungarian families, so there's no $800-pound vault that can be packed, and I understand that in this dimension you are mixing 400 million forints with 400 thousand forints, which is certainly a significant difference for the average Hungarians. So I say that the budget is always a value choice. Many people see the budget as a set of numbers, which is very difficult to understand; from my perspective, I have always considered the budget as a clear choice of value, which was spoken of by Bertalan Tóth faction leader. Based on our value choice, we should give more money to those who have less money, to ordinary people, to the poor, to the fallen. Public services should be developed from these sources that give all people quality and good education, which creates opportunities to provide high-quality healthcare, so that as many people in Hungary can live a long life in health, and that a social network should be provided that does not allow people to live overnight in Hungary, and they do not have to choose between buying food or medicine or paying bills in many Hungarian families. There's another way to label it. They talked a lot about family support. I have always added this to my speeches with an emphatic structure: you are not a family-friendly government, but a family-friendly government, because you seem to be very generous with your friends, friends, family members, so in this respect you can see that you really support families, only your own families and your own oligarchs, and that this is certainly going to happen from this budget. Then I was a little surprised to hear that the 13th month allowance is a developmental resource. Well, on that basis, I think that the previous budgets could have been grouped in such a way that the Hungarian own contribution to development resources would have been much higher. Just don't get to the point that we don't even need EU funds anymore that it would be very good if this were so, but I think that for a few years it won't be real in Hungary, so that Hungary doesn't need EU funds, because, as I listened to Congressman Hargitai, we could actually withdraw these funds, because there is a great deal of Hungarian resources and Hungarian tax revenues that I don't really understand why we're touching these funds, because Brussels is also telling us what these funds can be spent on in the main lines, even if the Hungarian government has to give a development plan, but the main directions are indeed defined by the European Union. It was probably just a misunderstanding about why we didn't give the pensioner the pensioner. Because it was the year we actually lost the election, so even if we really wanted to, we couldn't have. So this huge criticism may not be brought to our attention, but it has been decided by the voters and you have been happy about it. With regard to the investment rate, you spoke about the fact that this figure is very high, and my colleague Erik Bánki said in his speech that success does not have a secret but a price. Well, I totally agree with that. This policy doesn't have a secret, it has a price. Yes, there is indeed a high figure on the investment rate, and indeed jobs will be created from these investments, but another significant difference between our approach and your approach is that it does not entirely matter what type of job will be created. We say that it is good for jobs to be created, it is important for the Hungarian economy, but it is also important to see how high-level workers are vulnerable to these multinational companies. One government hasn't given multinational companies as much money as the Fidesz government. You keep telling me how much money you gave to small and medium-sized enterprises. You're lying! Most of the money was given to foreign multinational companies, and one job is true: they gave a job with the amount of money that no Hungarian government has ever given to any multinational company. Therefore, we say that it doesn't matter what jobs they create, it doesn't matter what quality work, what protection Hungarian workers can work with. We do not want to create service plants, we do not want to force people to join the assembly line, but we want Hungarian families and Hungarian people to work under fair pay conditions. It doesn't matter to you, we acknowledge that, and that is the significant difference. That is why, for example, we criticized the change in the labour code, because we believe that it serves nothing more than the service of this multinational capital, so that, under the worst possible circumstances, Hungarian workers can be worked in the most vulnerable situation and thus be eviscerated. That is why we say that the effort you represent is not sufficient. The other is that we should also mention the fact that, while Fidesz MEPs and KDNPs are celebrating here, how well Hungary is doing, how well it depends on the context in which we put this. Because if we put it in a regional context, we will soon find out that Hungary is in the back, that the regional competitors did better. Of course, you can always choose a base number, compared to which the year seems to be better, but if you put it in a fair context with the same marginal conditions that Hungary had at a given time, then it can be said that many countries, which have similar competitiveness indicators, have preceded Hungary, and in this respect it may suddenly be more realistic to see the performance of the Hungarian government in this regard. Mr Harghitai has repeatedly spoken about loans, and I am always amazed at it, because it is a prepared Member, how he dares say so firmly that you do not want to take credit, that you are acting so carefully on the part of the Hungarian government here, that the Hungarian government does not slip into a debt trap, so that the European Union will not take these loans now, because this is a unique approach. It is not unicical, because a total of six or seven EU countries are taking credit, by the way, and the majority are not taking advantage of this opportunity, but that is not why I am saying what I am saying. Well, please, how much better is the credit from the Chinese Communist Party? How much better is the credit from Putin? How much less does it limit Hungarian sovereignty if it has to be accounted for? Don't they want to tell us what's going to happen to that source? The reason why we do not take out the loan from the European Union is because it is too anxious to talk about how we spend it and what conditions we get it back. [[11.30]] Well, please, that's even more specific than Chinese credit. In the case of Chinese credit contracts, even non-compatible Chinese investments are linked! So if someone wanted to climb out of one of their credit obligations and say it back, they would take with them, in many countries, the Chinese investments in other areas. Well, no one wants anything more to do with the internal affairs of a country. For geopolitical purposes, the allocation of financial capital in China is intended. It's in their best interest. But from the point of view of Hungary's national sovereignty, from the point of view of our position in the Euroatlantic region, as the Hungarian people have decided in the referendum on our membership of NATO and the European Union, this type of Eastern engagement, friendship with dictators and financial dependence is a much greater risk in this respect, as if we can take credit from the market, I accept that this is an opportunity, as if we have a source from the community where we have the right to vote, where we can influence the conditions and processes. One last thing, in closing: I would like to tell Mr Harghitai that he probably does not know this, but then perhaps I would like to draw his attention to this from now on and help us lobby, so that, indeed, Congressman, imagine that not all districts, not all of them are as lucky as yours. I can see that there is so much money in Mohács now that it is almost difficult to spend it, because the source is pouring into the Mohács district, to every settlement, which is good news, I am glad of that, because I was born in Pécs, and Bertalan Tóth is a Baranya county representative in Pécs. He could tell you, but I'd like to add now that I'm asking you, for example, that's not the case in Pécs. So if you go a few miles away, you'll see that that's not what's happening in the Pécs municipality because you're the mayor of opposition. But let me give you an example from yesterday, not with the mayor of Dunaújváros, but with the resources being taken away. All statistics show, please, that five hundred times more money is paid to municipalities that are fidesz than those who are oppositional. So I would ask Congressman Harghitai to lobby for the city of Pécs and lobby for Dunaújváros, because that is not what the opposition-led cities are experiencing, which you are talking about, but that, for revenge, as many of you have said here, they will be taken away from these politicians, but not from them, to be exact, but from the people who are, of course, not all left-wing, not all opposition, but also a number of Fidesz, so they are also being damaged. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2021-05-19-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group, who will give the DK Group's opinion on the budget about the pulpit. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-19-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said, and I would like to explain, for a longer time, our opinion on the draft budget law for 2022. Let's start with the general perception that we set the course for what our opinion looks like. Before I do that, I'd like to ask you one question first. Are you really serious about what you've been saying in the last few months, and more people have been saying that you want to beat me around the bend? Are you really serious about this? I mean, if you think about it, it's against the law, by the way. People who travel in many ways don't like it, and they think it's extremely risky to pass in a corner. That's why I'm just reminding you that when these death trucks are running down the road, and they're passing through a corner, I'd say that's criminal and not to be supported. Therefore, whether the President of the Hungarian National Bank or the Minister of Finance says it or the Chairman of the Economic Committee says it, this is still a stupid thing, as is the case, honourable Members. I would like to make three statements about this in the beginning. The first is perhaps something that can be put together and said in a little summary: it is clearly an election budget. But to put a little more into this, I would also like to define this in terms of the fact that, in my terms, this is a purely political, power and public relations budget, as opposed to what would be necessary for it to be about an economic, social, fact-based budget. You can easily include what you have heard from my fellow Members, that this is a budget for revenge, a cruel budget which, by the way, ignores social groups, all of this can be understood. My second statement is that you're chasing irrational desires because of your previous economic policy and crisis management mistakes, which makes you think that what you've messed up can be resolved and resolved in minutes, that is to say, dreaming about a budget, but of course it won't work. By the way, the numbers prove that, because that's why you're here, but you can't really reduce the budget deficit. That's gonna be a next part of the story when I tell you that, and I'm gonna prove to you that since you know that, it's a lying budget, because you're cheating people, you're lying to them, and you're telling them something that doesn't exist anyway. Thirdly, I say to you and you should argue with him that if you know that this is a hasty budget, which is a bit linked to the previous years, that you are trying to do something in a panic situation, and this action for Hungary, but primarily for the next period, for years, is due to the panic situation that has been proven several times over the past period. On this basis, it is safe to say that the main problem of the 2022 budget is that the general government deficit is falling slightly, that it remains high in European comparison, and that the ongoing reduction in public debt is uncertain. This is not a result of the crisis, but of the government's economic policy focusing on electoral aspects and the interests of loyal groups. The level of spending has now triggered the sharp criticism of the Fiscal Council, which you are trying to dampen, but this does not change the point. It is possible that the government's proposal is now being submitted to a stricter budgetary policy. By the way, you're capable of doing this, but, as I said, you want to maintain the lying image we've been hearing from pro-government politicians in the last few hours. The government again presented the budget in the spring in an economically irrational manner. As a matter of fact, this was done in relation to the 2020-21 or previous practice, but the fact is that the appropriations for 2020-21 were not in a more anachronistic way than ever before. The budget for 2022 is also slightly improving the transparency of the budget in an interesting way, but, as I said, I indicated, this is mainly due to the fact that the Budget Council was unable to do anything else to raise awareness, and therefore, in essence, the balance sheet, the revenue and expenditure table of the public finances were included in the budget, while this was not the case before. The explanatory statement of the budget makes the current and longer-term economic policy extremely successful, but contrary to the facts and comparison with other countries in the region. [[11.40]] For example, the degree of dependence on EU transfers, the extent of the economic downturn last year, inflation, the exchange rate, the general government deficit all contradict what you claim, Mr Secretary of State. The main figures of the 2021 projections on which budgetary planning is based are realistic, and I acknowledge that they are close to it, and so I say. Here, the Hungarian National Bank's inflation prognosis is more likely than the government's, but the growth forecast of 5.2 percent in 2022 is uncertain. This is when I say that when you are building on desires, while the Council of Budgets has assessed that the growth expected by the government is high; it is linked to the upper value of the band of known domestic and international forecasts, so they are conducting election budget planning, as I have just said. Overall, there is no substantial deviation from the appropriations among public finances' tax revenues, according to our calculations, but the European Commission still needs to adopt Hungary's recovery and resilience plan to draw on RRF resources that can be used primarily to finance structural reforms and investments linked to country-specific recommendations, but this carries serious risks. As Mr Secretary of State has already said, as Minister for Finance has said, despite all this, they are preparing to pre-finance all the improvements that embody their desire, which is a huge risk, if not possible, because you are submitting a bad plan, and at the moment this is preceded by a huge debate. By the way, I think you know that you want to use this for the wrong reasons, so it is important not only to draw attention but also to call on you not to use pre-financing again. In the future, I will also show you that you still have HUF 1500 billion to finance the projects of EU funds before 2020. In 2022, as in this year's case, we can safely say, inflated visual bases, in line with the electoral considerations, the sound of the Economic Protection Fund set up in advance for this year, and the Health Insurance Fund and the Anti-CDC Protection Fund, which were created by the collection of expenditure obligations from substantially different previous sources, in Hungarian: there is nothing new in this regard. The table showing the elements of the Economic Restart Action Plan with an increased envelope in the bill amending the budget for 2021 contains 12 percent of GDP and 13 percent of GDP by 2022, and this amount, which is otherwise incomprehensible in the economic sense, is intended solely for PR purposes. The pseudonym of the entire action plan is illustrated by the fact that the 13th month pension is included here as an economic re-launch action plan. Secretary of State, you don't really believe that support for churches or sports, which is in the same place, can be linked to this year's economic defense, the re-launch of next year? So, accordingly, this is the manyth element, which makes all this unacceptable. In fact, the budget for 2022 is mostly reflected in the government's view that any treatment of the epidemic and the health and economic crisis caused by it should also be subject to the 2022 elections. The budget continues to show political, power, electoral PR, not socio-economic subordination. Some spectacular, important electoral groups are addressed, and you believe that they can be won as supporters in this way, whether it be young people's sija-freeness or house renovation, which is the story of the mid-generations. I think that the opposition has presented its ambition in a bill, by the way, and if, at the time of the economic crisis, they really wanted to create a meaningful resource and not just push together different tables, they would have considered our bill on immediate measures to deal with the economic crisis and, by the way, the list of 21 elements of investment, and at least a significant part of it could have been withdrawn. At this time, you may not think, fellow Members, that it is not only Mr. Secretary of State who is here in this story that it is a countercyclical economic policy to draw out the magic bunny and build a railroad from Budapest to Belgrade for hundreds of billions of forints? Perhaps you could find more sensible, rational solutions, and I have just highlighted one of the 21 that we have listed here in our initiative. One thing must be acknowledged, and frankly, I am very pleased that you are spending a lot of resources on rural development. Very well, do it, and I think it's time for some sort of resolution on the conscience crisis of Fidesz. I'm telling you this for two reasons. First of all, because the right in the early 1990s basically destroyed and depopulated the villages, he took the land away from them when it provided them with a livelihood, it is perfectly right to feel guilty about Fidesz. After that, however, for the past ten years, he has done nothing for the countryside, and now suddenly they think that next year there is an election, and now something has to be done. Dear fellow Members, I think it is not a matter of a ministerial visit that 30 billion forints are being scattered here or carried there, and they do so in such a discriminatory way. Then, I think that is why, you have a responsibility in the fact that the countryside is ruined, and this situation will not be dealt with by you now, because you have lost your right to have the opportunity to do so, there will be no way to do so. However, the high general government deficit caused by expenditure surpluses is mainly due to the extension of the state's economic engagement. Here they are increasing both in terms of protection, sports and interest expenditure, but I do see that there is no plan to increase the family allowance, but to tackle the unemployment situation. It would have been appropriate, for example, to put small pensioners first, but you did not. Following the revised budget for 2021, the draft budget law of 2022 is now not in line with the Stability Act. Mr. Secretary of State here the other day promised that the law would be restored. I think that this law should have been put in place a long time ago, because, in addition to the 5.2 percent increase, they contain a deficit of 5.9 percent or well above 3 percent, so this time, when the Stability Act was amended, they do not adapt political will to the law, but they do so to politics. [[11.50]] A high level of expenditure may result in overheating of the economy, increasing inflationary pressures and endangering the external economic balance, therefore some of the expenditure envisaged should be cancelled or postponed. As I mentioned, this is expressed in the 21-part proposal that you covered. Earlier, the opposition made a proposal to talk about a rational fiscal policy. The Hungarian investment rate is very high, and the Hungarian government is committed to increasing investment, despite the budgetary commitment. Forced development in the construction sector, the construction industry leads to shortages, price increases, transfers slipping, efficiency deteriorates, not to mention the never-reimbursing nature of some of the investments. Should I mention the Budapest-Belgrade railway line again? Should I mention to you that one of the consequences of countercyclical policy is spending money on the World Hunting Exhibition? Do you really think that's true? Reducing the deficit is an obvious way of reducing these investments and spending. The government debt-to-GDP ratio increased from 66,6 percent per annum in 2019 to 80.4 per cent in 2020, compared with 79.9 per cent by the government... now I will not speak again about the trick we did here the other day, how it was brought down below 80 per cent. In other words, overall, if I look at 22 in this respect, Mr Secretary of State, it is, in essence, barely falling. Another fact is that you are planning with an election budget, and you are not thinking about talking about 2022 here in the period before the summer, so that 2020 is not accounted for, 2021 is being amended and such a PR budget is being brought before Parliament, which is about 2022. Although this year's decline is supported by pre-financing in 2020 and very weak forints at the end of 2020, these are risks and very significant risks due to the high deficit. By 2022, these aids will not be available, Mr. Secretary, they will not be able to operate with this. However, can it be assumed that if the debt-to-GDP ratio was not reduced, the government would amend the debt rule in the Fundamental Law? Or what are they up to? They either want to do it or they don't. Does the government tend to limit budget expenditure to some extent if international expectations are expected to tighten? So, here are some questions that need to be asked over and over again. Let us consider some more detailed findings. I trust I have some time left for this. The government is once again presenting this law in the spring in an economically irrational way, and the appropriations are, as I said, not related to reality. During the period of the Fidesz government, the budgetary processes became almost completely opaque, and the Parliament's control role could not prevail. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Here, in this place, the Deputy President of the State Audit Office said that Parliament is the main audit body, and you do not provide the conditions for that. From this point of view, with this pre-summer planning, you would, let alone increase predictability, the exact opposite is true, the unpredictability increases with this. On the one hand, the necessary data are still lacking for the professionally sound development and adoption of the budget and, on the other hand, the extension of the prognosis period, as I said, increases uncertainty. The budget for 2021 last spring gave a more distorted picture than ever before, as the course of the epidemic, the length and depth of the economic crisis, and the evolution of the 2020 budget were completely uncertain. And what did they do? You pushed for this to happen in the summer of 2020. At the same time, by allowing the government, without a parliamentary decision, simply by a regulation, to decide on new commitments against specific expenditure appropriations, it can in practice decide virtually anything in its own power, in line with government processes, constraints and considerations that have been out of sight and uncontrollable for years from the outside. It's the night rule. Then, by the way, when opposition representatives ask for details and do not answer them. I can list letters which, not answered, are kept secret and Parliament's right of control is substantially reduced. The announcement of an emergency was crucial for the budgetary processes of 2020-21, which essentially created this regulation's governance. But let me tell you that this is independent of the lack of control that you, by the way, are doing this government. The senselessness of the spring budget negotiations is well demonstrated by the fact that the budget deficit for 2020 was around 15 times the projected deficit, including 40 percent of the deficit in the last month of the year, in December. Dear Secretary of State, What state spending processes justified the spending of over a thousand billion forints in December? That's what we're talking about! By the way, the end-of-the-year distribution has already been done before, mostly by entrepreneurs and companies with loyal ownership groups, or they were the beneficiaries of such extraordinary money as a result of an end-of-year distribution of money. If we look at the fact that, instead of the 2020 deficit according to the European methodology and the 1 percent originally foreseen in spring 2019, it became 8.1 percent of GDP, it is very clear that your design method is completely meaningless and creates the unpredictableity that I referred to, which is shown in this way to the economy, society, and therefore unacceptable. However, if not to this extent, the projected deficit has not been passed through the official public budget for 2020. Although, due to the crisis, the government adopted a law amending the 2020 budget in the summer of 2020, establishing a protection and economic protection fund for the epidemic and authorising themselves and the government to exceed a number of appropriations, the law also stated that the amendment submitted did not affect the numerical annex, so it does not affect the main amounts of the law, it contains changes in the standard text. I quoted you, Mr. Secretary. In the most extreme way, government secrecy felt its negative impact when the initial budget for 2021 was adopted, as the reality of the public finances revenue and expenditure envisaged was completely indisputable. The tables of the bill contained only the appropriations for 2020, i.e. neither the preliminary fact for 2019 nor the actual expected revenue for 2020. The lack of preliminary data for the previous year and expected data for the current year has been a major problem at the spring adoption of the budgets, but keeping the new appropriations for the 2020 budget, which has been revised in an unknown way due to the epidemic, has made the assessment of the reality of the planned processes completely ridiculous. This year's budget is planned in the same way, Mr. Secretary of State. This year's budget assessment was not supported by the 2021 amendment proposal that came before the Parliament in May. This included only the items on which the Parliament was to change, changes by the government in its own powers, and the impact of changes due to demographic and other developments. [[12.00]] The situation has changed only to the extent that a new table has been set out in the bill, i.e. the expected cash flow deficit at the time of the amendment of the budget law 2021 was HUF 3990 billion. However, the amendment proposal itself continues to record a deficit of HUF 2280 billion. Thus, there is still no more than 40 percent of the deficit, which the government is actually looking forward to. This is once again a concrete proof that this is an election budget, which is managed by a flood after me, and something will happen: in any case, it is set up now, and otherwise, something happens after the elections. Since they are doing this on purpose, they know exactly what is happening, so it is true that I say that this is a lying law by which people are deceived. It is also the responsibility of the pro-government representatives to add their names to this and to contribute to this. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the debate between the Minister of Finance and the President of the National Bank of Hungary, which has emerged in recent months or even earlier, is now reflected in an uncertainty which is already highlighted by the State Audit Office of the NER system and which operates within it in its previous accounts. I can quote the President's words in which he draws attention to the risks arising from pre-financing. On the other hand, the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which has now been published, and which has also been added to this budget, clearly calls for you to hear, not the neutral sentences that you have tried politically, but the message that this is an obvious election budget, which is unacceptable and thus contains solutions that will revive the future, so that you know it precisely, because this is not acceptable to the budget you have brought here. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition will certainly not support this bill, but rather in a more rational way, preparing for the elections, the Fidesz must be replaced so that we can finally go forward with normal planning. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2021-05-19-28	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. I now give the floor here on the bench to Mr Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-19-29	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, In fact, the budget planned for 2022 is not a reboot, but a budget for concreteisation and concreteisation. Obviously, what's paved is relatively difficult to start anywhere. Instead of the human development of education, the social sphere and the protection of the living environment that is our basis for life, concrete flows everywhere, everywhere, to multi-scale factories, stadiums, Chinese universities, Chinese railways, Russian nuclear power plants, even to a large part of the development resources for higher education, which is again nothing more than concrete. From state support, they concrete the smaller and larger kissing entrepreneurs, and they continue to concrete this around Lake Balaton, around Lake Fertő, around Lake Tata and everywhere where they see water. Even basically necessary water developments will be concrete instead of working to keep water in the landscape and soil, which is about our only option to avoid drought and desertation. The LMP wants the country's budget not to be about concrete, but about people and life. Although the government does not take the climate crisis and the ecological crisis seriously, their negative impact is already measured in hundreds of billions. Although the government doesn't take it seriously, half the country is poor or in decline. Unfortunately, you have to admit that no one likes it, but they do. The damage to society can be measured in thousands of billions. We therefore need a green and social turnaround and a real reconstruction programme. Obviously, we cannot expect this from the Fidesz government, we have no illusions anymore; we will, of course, submit it in our amendments, this time with a little more hope than in previous years. It is not because Fidesz accepts anything from them, but because we will make a substantial contribution in the new government that will stand up for the future, so that they can be implemented when this budget is rewritten. In terms of budget size, we see the same problems as in recent years: the planned inflation, GDP, government debt and budget deficits are all surrounded by uncertainty. Inflation in 2022 is also deliberately under-planned, as it has been every year, and 3% inflation is highly unlikely in the light of known economic developments. Where the economy is overheated with a 5.9 percent budget deficit and growth is also planned for a high 5.2 percent at the Hungarian level, inflation does not stop at 3 percent, and you know it. We are well aware of the causes of under-planning: it expands the scope of the government, creates additional resources so that they can make huge spending before the elections. The rise in inflation causes a great loss to many social groups. Already this year, inflation is expected to be around 4 per cent rather than high 3 per cent at previously planned and EU levels, and in many product groups, including in the area of basic food, this is significantly above inflation. And even if we beg, we demand that the government do something about it, the means at its disposal, for example, by reducing the VAT on basic foods, do nothing to reduce the price of these foods. The Fidesz-KDNP government has reduced VAT if any of your buddies ask you to. The level of public debt is planned to be 79,3% by the end of 2022. It is noticeable that this is only slightly less than the 79,9 percent planned by the end of 2021, i.e. they do not actually reduce the debt. The smaller number will obviously be able to do at the end of the year, the debt will stabilize at a high level, at the pre-crisis level, which is quite amazing. The high level of debt also raises the cost of debt service to HUF 1413 billion. That's 360. billion HUF more than the HUF 1068 billion originally planned for 2021. It's an amazing number, basically ten years' decline disappears in just one moment. The 365 (sic!) billions more than they want to spend on full higher education in 2022. The high level of government debt is clearly due to the high level of deficit. The 5.9 percent deficit has no economic policy reasons, only political. 2022 will no longer be a recession year, and the recovery of the economy would not require such an increase in demand. The only aim of this is to increase the billions spent in preparation for elections by around HUF 1500 billion compared to the 3 per cent limit. So basically an election budget has been made, as many of my fellow lead speakers have already said to me; and I do not think that there is anything else to be highlighted here from the budget, because everyone must see that they are now indebted to the country in order to pass on visual investments during the elections and cut through ribbons with scissors caught by many, many people. [[12.10]] The objectives of the election budget are also served by the Fidesz government's continuing increase in the lack of transparency of the budget and by reducing the importance of what is written in it. In the beginning, the spring presentation of the budget is already a resolution on how important it is to have anything to do with reality. The closure of the previous year is not yet known when the budget is submitted. And the economic and social processes of the previous year are only known in a vague way. It is still six months before the start of the budget year, so the projected macroeconomic developments can be taken into account practically by the reliability of the pawnshop. However, absurdly, it is said that the budget based on unknown historical figures and unknown future processes increases stability. At the latest in 2020, you should have made sure that this was a completely false picture, since both the budget for 2020 and the budget for 2021 that had already been created during the epidemic could be thrown out at the same time. They threw it away, they didn't create a new one, but they spent the money using the opportunities offered by the extraordinary legal order and two gigantic foundations opened from above, as they remembered. It is recalled that a year ago, when the 2020 budget was redesigned, they simply did not say what items would be added from the normal allocation to the so-called economic development fund. They just didn't work it out. They didn't think it was necessary, because the two-thirds voted for it anyway. Then they did, and then they spent the two funds about 5,000 billion forints more than they even put in it. The process of giving less and less information about the budget, the lines are losing weight, and the analytics behind the lines is completely unknown. These chapters are becoming less detailed, consolidated items cover quite different expenditures, huge, imaginatively collated funds are created, preferably from above - addresses such as the investment fund with a framework of 550 billion, which in principle does not reveal what I would like to spend in the end. More precisely, it turns out that even you don't know what I'd like to spend it on. We can be sure it's gonna be a lot of concrete, no matter what. This process is a good indication of what the government thinks about the role of Parliament and the exercise of power. For you, Parliament is just a formality, a mandatory circle, with which the less things you say, the better. The Fidesz faction is gonna vote for what's needed, so why bother? Last year, the epidemic and the crisis came in handy for you. They were so in love with the emergency that they wouldn't let go. You were very pleased with the arbitrary exercise of power without counterweight, which, for example, gave you a more free hand on budgetary matters than ever before. This is the only reason why it is of prime and national interest that the change of government should take place in 22 years. On the basis of the budget presented, debt is not only increasing compared to previous levels, debt is piling up in other areas. During the crisis, they left their jobs on the side of the road, those suffering from the closure of their business, those forced to stay home because of the infection, those forced to work triple shifts at home because of online education, and those who were fired during the crisis, for example. The damage to human life is also debt, Mr. Secretary of State. They lied that everyone would have a job within three months, if they lost it, that it was not true, that the shameful three months of job search had not been extended by reference to this. They spent less on wage subsidies than any other European country, promising that everyone would have a job, but they forgot to add that they would become an actor, musician, and a well-functioning entrepreneur for years. This is your social picture, and unfortunately, next year's budget is also showing this social picture. We spent HUF 50 billion in Austria, mentioned as the sample, to help workers in this form in one year. It's 1:50! 1:50 is the ratio, so the Austrian government is fifty times more important to those working in Austria than the Hungarian government's employees! On the side of the road, they left the break-down areas, the drop-outs from online education, and many social groups. In addition, there was a huge hole in the public services. Although they are trying to lie, unfortunately, health care collapsed during the third wave of the epidemic. Normal care stopped for several months, and because of the epidemic, our countrymen had no clear treatment. And yes, these debts will also have to be eliminated by the next government, not just financial debt. How can these debts be repaid? How can the damage caused over the decades be compensated? According to the budget submitted, the budget is aimed at rebuilding, but, as I said, unfortunately, this means cementing, cataphoring of buddies. Instead of concrete, you need trees, instead of money, you have to be the center of attention. Debt repayment, redemption and green reconstruction, according to the LMP, contain the following elements, on which the budget will be converted. After decades of debt, withdrawal of funds and mass exodus from health care, the government finally saw what we said ten years ago, that significant extra resources should be spent on health care. Thanks to this, there is now a HUF 459 billion budget to support the health wage increase. Unfortunately, this was taken late. The health system has suffered critically, the benefits have stopped, and the third wave has overwhelmed the system weakened by the government. Restoration should therefore not stop in part, i.e. in the increase in medical wages, the wages of the workers and the wages of non-medical graduates should also be increased. General practitioners' benefits also need to be increased, plus the recruitment of assistants, which would require at least HUF 40 billion in extra resources. A separate epidemiological system should be re-established. At least 50 billion forints should be spent on this. And, Mr. Secretary, the plague has not ended. Its effects will stay with us for a long time, so we need to build a post-Covid national screening and therapy program. In the case of our countrymen who have undergone the coronal virus, more and more serious complications occur after the course of the disease. The infection can affect both the central and peripheral nervous systems, and often the level of lung capacity of the cured patients does not return to normal, it also increases the frequency of heart muscle damage and the occurrence of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. There is an increased incidence of multi-organ inflammatory syndrome in children. They should also be managed by the budget. More than 40 percent of cases have complicated symptoms, the virus can attack almost all organ systems, and the epidemic also has serious mental and mental aftereffects. Therefore, mental rehabilitation centres should also be set up, not only at the capital, but also at the national level. The population, the unemployed, the bankrupt entrepreneurs and the sectors must also be taken into account. They should be assisted, the length of the payment of the unemployment allowance should be increased to nine months and the maximum amount should be increased. Personal income tax should be reduced in a band so that income from earners below the average can increase by tens of thousands. And I know that the Secretary of State or my fellow members of the Government say that this is a tax increase. Of course you do. And I do! But a well-developed multi-key tax increases the wages of employees by tens of thousands of forints up to the average salary. It is no coincidence that a multi-key tax on personal income tax is also calculated in Germany, which may not be economically unsuccessful. Family allowances and other income support must also be increased, as many have lost the existential legs they have relied on so far. VAT on basic foods needs to be reduced, because inflation is already threatening the bread of many. Let's just think that they count 3 percent in terms of inflation: the price of basic food has already increased significantly more than 10 percent in recent years, and this process is not expected to stop next year, and I think we owe it to the Hungarian society to keep the price of basic food at an affordable level. [[12.20]] And I think we need to give some thought to the green light. Due to the climate crisis and the ecological crisis, major green programmes cannot wait any longer. The investment fund and the sources of harmful investments should be transferred to green investments and programmes. Environmental expenditure has not been growing within the budget for a long time, and HUF 335 billion is planned for 2022, while HUF 373 billion was foreseen in 2019. It would be urgent to start an annual energy efficiency building renovation programme with a HUF 300 billion framework, which finances deep renovation in private homes and apartments. There is a need to support the use of solar energy at the retail level, and I think that there should also be significant development resources for the development of brownfield areas. For the sake of a circular economy, the failed centralised garbage holding should be eliminated and the normal waste-free economy organised and encouraged. The water that is the basis of our economy and our lives must be kept, not simply flooded, but stored in the landscape and soil, so that in ten years' time something can grow if we live. A healthy social and economic system is an essential part of a capable, prepared local government sphere. The current government wants to destroy the local governments, force them into total financial dependence and servitude. In contrast, LMP would return the necessary current and development resources. In fact, in addition to reducing the amount of subsidies for municipalities, this budget did not return the remaining part of the car tax, thereby seriously damaging the municipalities and seriously damaging the ability of the local authorities to decide on the development and development of their own municipalities. I think that I will not say anything new by saying, in summary, that such a budget, which goes against the interests of society, is a budget that subordinates everything to the upcoming elections and subjects everything to the payment of economic operators linked to the government, the LMP cannot, does not want to support, not just now, but also in the future. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-05-19-30	Thank you very much, Assistant Group Leader Antal Csárdi. I now give the floor to the representatives of the Group of Dialogue, who have indicated that two speakers have presented the group's position. First, on the pulpit, Congresswoman Timea Szabó will present the group's position.
u2021-05-19-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You'd think, since it's election year next year, the government's gonna start a big division. However, the proposal before us is not a budget for distribution, but a budget for looting. The government of Viktor Orbán will not give the common money to the people after the devastating pandemic in the world, and so in Hungary, but again and again to Viktor Orbán himself: Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz, Rachel Orbán and the other family members. Once again, 1 percent gets the 99 percent instead of the 99 percent. It's nothing new. That's what we've been seeing for 11 years. The richest Orbán circles are enriched during and after the crisis, and most people suffer. Lőrinc Mészáros is now building a luxury villa for 3 billion forints, and the rural entrepreneur can close the catering place, because the government has not given him a penny of support. According to a survey conducted by Závecz Research in March, 40 percent of respondents said that they have been living worse since the outbreak. 49 percent of the 30 - to 40 - year - olds admitted that they felt the economic downturn on their own, i.e. half of these age groups were talking about poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, This means that almost half the Hungarian people have been living worse since the crisis. What does Viktor Orbán and Mihály Varga do with next year's budget? They're stealing it. From the point of view of the government, Erik Bánki Fidesz said perfectly at the beginning of the debate, when he quoted Churchill as an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty. Well, that's what they do, indeed: Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz-KDNP saw the opportunity for themselves in the present crisis, even in difficulty. Two weeks ago, hundreds of billions of forints were stolen from our money and public funds were transferred to private foundations created by themselves and for themselves. They stole the Balaton ports, studs, hundreds of billion-dollar stock packages, children's camps and other valuable properties, and they said it's not yours anymore, people, it's ours, fidesz people's. That's what it means to reorganize into a private foundation. But before that, the entire epidemic was practically the same thing that the government did. Out of the HUF 3500 billion available throughout the epidemic, the government spent HUF 2600 billion on its own. Out of the HUF 3500 billion, a total of HUF 900 billion was spent on people. This is in the Hungarian Gazette in black and white. That means that 75 percent of the people's money was stolen by the government, 25 percent of it actually went to people according to the most optimistic calculations. This is what the government of Viktor Orbán calls an epidemic. Let's just take a look at one or two items of what they spent during the plague. HUF 323 billion spent on the acquisition of military vehicles, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The theft? The tanks, the theft?]] 192 billion forints were earmarked for the construction of an athletic hall, 18 billion forints received from Lőrinc Mészáros' hotel, 21 billion for the World Exhibition in Dubai, and so on, this year. And in the next year's budget, they were so creative that now, technically, the theft was renamed construction. More than HUF 100 billion out of 463 billion of infrastructure developments and nearly HUF 50 billion out of 217 billion will be transported directly into Fidesz pockets. But, of course, there is another 101 billion forints a year to build the public media, the lying public media, six stadiums, 106 billion forints, 80 billion forints for Semjén's hunting exhibition, 60 billion forints for motorcycle races, 162 billion forints for the construction of the secret Budapest-Belgrád Chinese railway line, and so on we can't see what people are doing. But these are not even the greatest sins of the Fidesz-KDNP government and Viktor Orbán. Besides stealing, they sell and deliver the country to the biggest communist dictatorships, and they're indebted not only to our children, but also to our grandchildren. The life-threatening Russian Paks II. Another HUF 270 billion will be invested in next year's budget. The government has already spent hundreds of billions of forints without a hoof cut being made in that place. With this money, it would be possible to finance a 50% wage increase for healthcare workers for more than two years. But worse than that is the treason that the Chinese Communist Party ordered Viktor Orbán to do: they put 600 billion forints of Chinese credit into the neck of Hungarian youth in order to bring here a Chinese secret agent training university, built with Chinese workers, from Chinese materials. They're gonna take half the city downtown. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Downtown?]] from Hungarian university students to the University of the Chinese Communist Party, where if Hungarian students want to go for something, then they can do that in exchange for, say, two million forints a year. It's, uh, respected government parties, treason! You are committing the most serious treason when you made a deal with the Chinese Communist Party. That's why you won't be sorry. [[12.30]] And they have the nerve to talk about a family-friendly and winning budget. It's not easy to move on from here with such treason, but let's keep looking at their budget plan. If there is work, there is everything, he also said here in the debate recently, the Fidesz Vice President of the Committee on Budgets, Lajos Szűcs, who has become most known for the disappearance of HUF 3.5 billion during the operation of the Hungarian Tennis Association, which he led earlier. Looks like he's got a job and everything else, but let's see if he's got a job. According to the HCSO report in March, there were 194 thousand unemployed, 25 thousand more than in the same period of the previous year, no less than a year earlier. About two thirds of this does not receive any benefits at all. A city the size of Nyíregyháza does not receive about 110,000 unemployment benefits. In addition, it turns out that when you talk about getting jobs back in three months, which, apparently, didn't work out, you're talking about community service. But if we look into next year's draft budget, then we can see clearly that even the amount of public work has not been increased: the net HUF 54,000 will remain next year for those who lost their jobs because of the epidemic, because of the crisis, and the state or the market cannot provide them with anything but community service. These people have 54,000 forints of government poke out their eyes every month. Well, I'd like you to live with that kind of money, my fellow members of the government. But let's keep going. They are also very proud of how much family support will be given next year. Compared to this, the family allowance will not rise again in 2022, of course, with a penny. For example, for 12 years, you have refused to help single mothers who work, but your salary is not enough to support their child. You have a cruel, heartless government. And this is a sin only because it turned out that 13 percent of single mothers lost their jobs during the epidemic, thanks to the epidemic. After that, you talk about job creation, and when there's work, there's everything, there's a family-friendly government. Tens of thousands of single mothers are struggling to put dinner on the table at the end of the month. Raising orphanage also seems like a cruel joke for you, by the way, as we know that 800 children remain orphaned because of the epidemic, unfortunately. And you, in a cynical way, will only increase the amount of orphanage from next January, plus a total of 50,000 forints a month. Again, what's 50,000 forints a month enough for? And why only next year? This year, among all the thefts, wouldn't there have been money to raise this orphanage from now on, March, April? Why do you have to wait until next January? We're talking about the lives of a few hundred children, their survival. Shame on you, pro-government representatives. Then they refer to the CSOK, which helps the wealthy again. We see how useful it was, for example, for Minister Judit Varga, who, as is well known, hired HUF 10 million illegally on her holiday home in Balaton, even though we know that only the person who lives there can wear the CSOK. But we can see that the NER circles' access to housing was relatively easy compared to other people, and the top one percent support is working very well again. Judit Varga also managed to obtain an apartment of HUF 200 million, of which HUF 192 million was secured from bank loans. Well, I don't know how you are with this, I don't know many people in Hungary who can take on a 95 percent bank loan in Hungary and 200 million forints. Well, that's how you help the simple people get a place, and that's how you help the top one percent, Judit Varga and your buddies get an apartment! But let's look at inflation. There is one interesting thing here that has not been seen in ten years: Mihály Varga outlines a picture that even Viktor Orbán's own buddy, the National Bank led by György Matolcsy, disagrees with. They are talking about inflation of 3 percent, while inflation was already at its 9 year peak in April this year. The price of food oil increased by 23 percent, rice by 8 percent, flour by 7.5 percent, pasta by 7 percent. And Barnabás Virág, vice-president of the Central Bank, recently said that the re-opening of the economy would lead to high inflation. Then I ask you, did Mihály Varga talk to each other, György Matolcsy, or do you not even agree on this? Compared to this, they lie about 3 percent inflation in the government, and, of course, we know that pensions will only be raised by 3 percent. Viktor Orbán and his government are once again abandoning the elderly who have worked their whole lives and cheating them by giving them an extra week a year instead of raising pensions fairly. This is a depraved scam, my honourable pro-government colleagues, for the most vulnerable elderly people who will be forced to face the food prices that are going to run wild next year. But let's look at health care. You are proud of the extra support, while most of it only covers the increase in medical wages, but again, for example, you leave the other health workers alone. By the way, I've got the government's payroll, and I'm always taking it with me now. This includes the fact that in 2022, i.e. from next January, a non-graduating nurse will bring home a net of 170 thousand forints per month, and a graduate starter can pocket 230 thousand forints. It's been 30 years. the uneducated nurse who works on the field brings home 189,000 forints next year. A 30-year-old nurse can bring home less than 200,000 forints; this is 293,000 forints for the same graduate. That's what you call an honor in health care and an unprecedented wage increase. Shame on you! I'm not making this up. Look, it's on your payroll. Unfortunately, it is not surprising that most people in the EU still die from cancer, heart attack or stroke. You're pouring money into the concrete, into your own pockets, not into people. They're stealing instead of helping Orbán destroy health care. Do you really think that after such humiliating treatment, the 5500 doctors and nurses who quit this February will come back? Because the doctors are getting a raise, but in the meantime, let's say that Viktor Orbán thanked them for their work by valorizing the starters, or they're planning on listening to them now, so that they don't put anything else in their pockets. That's enough, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The Dialogue rejects the humiliation, the evisceration of the people to the furthest extent, the looting budget of 2022. Enough of having the one percent richest NER buddy rule here in Hungary. We support 99 percent. Next year, after the change of government, we're gonna do justice, we're gonna make up for the misdeeds of the Orbán government. As Gergely Christmas said, we will turn the people of power into the power of the people. The welfare of society as a whole is needed rather than the rule of one percent, so we will eliminate the housing crisis and give a fair wage increase in health care, social and caring sectors. We will compensate unconstitutionally displaced pensioners and increase pensions beyond inflation. We're making the minimum wage tax-free. We are creating a fair tax system where the oligarchs of NER will pay a luxury tax. Instead of Lőrincek Mészáros, we will support Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Brick by brick, we're tearing down the deep state built by government parties, and we're taking back the stolen property. Even if they steal panicfully now before the change of government, because they feel the winds of the change of government, we're going to get these money back. Instead of the government's alms-rural policy, we will implement comprehensive rural development, and small kingdoms will be replaced by viable family farms. Instead of creating a repressive education system, we create a system of chance-making schools, where children and teachers are not subjects, but helpers of each other, where the teacher does not work for food wages, but they will have one of the most prized careers. [[12.40]] Paks II. instead of creating a green Hungary, where we protect people from the harmful effects of climate change. After a change of government, a budget debate, honourable Members, will not be about how much the new government has stolen, how it has destroyed people again, but about how much people have received. Luckily, there's not much time left until the government changes. Instead of suppressing 1 percent of the Orbán pals, 99 percent power, clean public life, appreciation and a safe future will soon come. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Timea Szabó. 12 minutes and 40 seconds left in the timeframe to be presented to Member Tamás Mellár, who presented the position of the Dialogue Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-19-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I'm taking part in the fourth budget hearing, and there are some general things that can be learned from it. One of the most important things, perhaps, is that this trial always takes place too early. We usually talk about this, and the government side always defends itself to do this so early in order to be able to better inform entrepreneurs, but that is clearly not the case. Nor is it because budgets are always presented that are incomprehensible, unaccountable and are not specific, so it can be said that this is so that it cannot be reviewed and accounted for, because we do not yet have the relevant data to support this entire budget. It is now clear that this budget has left a great deal of room for manoeuvre for the government, so it will be able to lurch freely between the various budget lines, and of course it is true that the opposition's views, the views of opposition experts and the amendments made by the opposition are not taken into account. Officially, this budget runs with a reboot budget. Well, I have a problem with the title because it's a very bad title and the content behind it, I think it's also very bad. In fact, in a post-crisis period, it would not be necessary for the government to continue in the same place where it had left off, much more strongly, but rather to use this period of crisis to change, change, so that a major restructuring, a restructuring can be carried out and the achievements of the fourth industrial revolution can finally be introduced. Obviously, however, the Orbán government will not be able to do so, as it is a prisoner of the power system that he has built, so he must continue to focus on the sectors in which his people are, the construction, tourism and hospitality, so it cannot be said from this aspect that there really is a major change of structure here. Of course, verbally there is certainly such a framework, but this framework, as before, is not used for what it should be. Then it can also be seen that debt is very high, there is a large general government deficit and debt is also very high. All of this could be forgiven if there was indeed a radical restructuring in the economy, but that is not what it is, but that it is that NER entrepreneurs are still in position, they are now being filled with extra money, so this big sacrifice is actually happening for nothing. I would like to say a few words about the macro-track. The 4,3 percent increase in GDP in 2021 is this much in the plan after, in 22 this draft budget provides 5.2 percent, which can be realistic, and it can also be achieved, but it must be stressed here that this is an extensive, still an extensive economic growth; because if you look at the numbers behind it, you can see that this is expected to be achieved with a significant, very high investment rate and also with additional work. In recent years, even in the last ten years, this high economic growth has actually been an extensive economic growth, without significant productivity gains. If you look at it, productivity has barely increased by 10 percent between 2010 and 19 and now you can read in this plan that productivity increases by 4.2 percent this year and 4.1 percent next year. I wonder what they're basing this on. What will be the real driving force behind this economy if it continues to support the same sectors that can only make an extensive development? In terms of inflation, I've been told here by several people, this 3-percent is a very heroic assumption, and it's obviously not going to be met. If maybe the Fidesz will help out with the Central Statistical Office, and you can see signs of that now, because during the course of the year, the core inflation has been changed, the core inflation calculation. That's not something that statists change during the year. Obviously, they're trying to prepare for this, but it's an old trick on the government side that they're planning low inflation, and then inflation's going up and they're going to be able to realize an inflation tax. Obviously, the higher inflation in the economy also follows from the fact that there is a 5.2 percent economic growth in the plan. It is no coincidence that the Fiscal Council has drawn attention strongly and repeatedly, that there is a great risk that an overheated economy will be here, and that it will already begin and will be in the coming year. In an overheated economy, however, it is clear that inflation is getting higher and higher, even if they try to reduce it by some tricks or try to prevent it in some way. If, in fact, the Hungarian economy is entering a sustainable growth path next year, as the budget plan promises, and as Minister for Finance has said, it is difficult to understand why they are planning a 5.9 percent deficit. So if the economy is really on a balancing path and after the current 4.3 percent GDP increase it will be 5.2, then what is the reason why we do not respect it, even if it is mandatory or not, we do not yet know exactly the 3 percent Maastricht criterion? Obviously, one of the reasons why they want to make more spending is that there is obviously an election budget when extra money is distributed and they are preparing for the possibility that they will not be able to continue after. 22 and, consequently, to create a situation that makes the opposition's action more limited and more difficult and restricts its room for manoeuvre. With regard to the debt-to-GDP ratio, the plan will be 79,3 percent, and the author says that everything that has to be achieved will be achieved, as debt/GDP is thus on a declining path, since it will fall from 80.4 to 79,9 percent this year and to 79,3 percent next year. If a person is even a little familiar with macro numbers, he knows precisely that these values are well within the margin of error. [[12.50]] So there's such a small reduction in this whole thing, which I don't think can be taken seriously that the country really is on a massively declining debt path, and it's not at all on such a path, and that's very disturbing. It is no coincidence that the Committee on Budgets and the Council on Budgets also stressed this very strongly, and that I can do nothing but try to confirm it. The euro/forint exchange rate will be 361 HUF from 360.9 HUF this year, at least that is what the presentation expects. If someone is even a little familiar with the Hungarian economy, then he knows that an important element of the Orbán economy, one of the instruments of balancing is the euro/forint exchange rate, i.e. the permanent weakening and depreciation of the forint, as he is trying to compensate for the lack of competitiveness and try to prevent the foreign trade deficit from rising. Obviously, they only entered this HUF 361 because it came out that the debt-to-GDP ratio will not increase then, because obviously the external debt will then be accounted for at a more favourable rate. Overall, it can therefore be said that the government will continue the extensive economic growth it has already started. I mean, to live with a picture, the country's car is going to a dead end, because it doesn't have an exit, it doesn't lead to a truly long-term sustainable and catching up economy, and now they're giving gas, and they're happy about how well the car is going, but we're getting further and further away from the goal that we really need to achieve. So I think that this budget cannot be supported with a good heart, and we hope that the next budget will no longer be presented by you, and that there will be qualitative elements in it, a truly catching up economic policy will come to light. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-19-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Mellar. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now, the speaker invited by the committee representing Hungarian minorities will present the Committee's position within a total time frame of 20 minutes. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a national minority representative, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian; he talks about the pulpit. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2021-05-19-35	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs Nr. T/16118. uber den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen erörtere. Wie es schon gewöhnt ist, wenn es gesagt werden kann, fange ich meinen Diskussionsbeitrag mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe an. Er hat gesagt:., Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muss zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the central budget for 2022, T/16118. Bill No. 1 concerning the parts of the legislation concerning the needs of the nationalities. My comment to the draft budget law, if you can say so, has now traditionally started with the quote by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, which reads in Hungarian: "The tolerance can only mark a temporary state, which should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. So acceptance is not enough; only acceptance is an insult in itself. We want more, we expect more: recognition. Our ancestors' lives have provided a sufficient basis for recognition, and we are still working for it. It's a condition of recognition, and it's based on knowledge. Let me therefore start with a brief reflection on the draft central budget law of 2022: at the beginning of the last cycle, in 2014, what position were the nationalities living in Hungary; in the previous seven years what and how have we been able to move forward; where are we today, what goals do we have, what tasks to solve to achieve them? Without due review and knowledge of all of this, it is not possible to give a realistic assessment of the past years or of the national needs relating to the 2022 central budget, to address them and to make appropriate government and parliamentary decisions. Nearly seven years ago, at the closure of the 2013 central budget, I started by saying that this first minority Parliamentary contribution should have taken place here in the Hungarian Parliament more than 20 years earlier, so we have to eliminate decades of failure in every respect as soon as possible. Then, for minutes, it was possible and had to be marked as to the conditions under which nationalities living in Hungary have been forced to live and operate for decades. As an example and as a reminder, first of all, the so-called NMZ frameworks available to support national minority civil society organisations, to support national cultural programmes have not changed for 12 years from 2002 to 2014 and only covered a fraction of the incoming needs of 10-15 percent. Secondly, the annual budget of HUF 30 million at the time for native school camps was so low compared to the needs that there was virtually no point in applying. On the basis of a minority child, the then framework was sufficient for two dumplings of ice cream a day. Thirdly, the annual operating support of municipal self-governments was on average HUF 222 thousand gross, corresponding to HUF 14 500 per month net. Fourthly, the national minority authorities have constantly increased economic, financial and administrative costs without increasing subsidies, with changes in public finance legislation and the various legal requirements. In summary, it should be said that until 2013, the support of nationalities living in Hungary was in a deplorable state, and this is still a very fine expression of the actual situation at the time. However, from 2013 onwards, there have been very positive changes that have been encouraging. On the one hand, it was undoubtedly the most important and positive change in the year 2013 from a nationality point of view that the support for the national minority public education institutions maintained by the national authorities increased significantly and became normative. On the other hand, legal opportunities for the development of national cultural and educational autonomy have been opened by ensuring the capacity of local self-governments to take over and establish institutions. With the 2014 parliamentary elections, Parliament's representation was granted to 13 Hungarian nationalities, which opened up new opportunities and a new period for us. The first serious result of Parliament's representation was that we were able to achieve a breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act by increasing the previously less than HUF 4 billion and, for many years, the unchanged funding framework by more than 50 percent. [[13.00]] In the last six years, no substantial improvement in the following areas has been achieved as a combined effect of an increase in aid in 2021. 1. The operating and cultural support funding framework of national minority NGOs has been increased from HUF 110-110 million to HUF 500 and HUF 700 million, i.e. about five and a half times. 2. We have been able to raise the 30 million forints of 2014 to 400 million forints (13 times) for the national minority native language student camps. I would add that we have always, everywhere and in every situation, treated the mother tongue student camps as a top priority, and even this 13-folded framework is still covering only one part of objective, realistic needs only for about 30-40 percent. 3. We have doubled the overall operating support of local minority self-governments by fourfold, the so-called task-based differentiated support framework. 4. In 2015, 2017 and 2019 we were able to raise the support of national minority authorities and national minority media, as well as the institutions maintained by national national minority authorities, so that the most pressing funding problems could be addressed. 5. We have been able to provide a number of specific, ethnic complementary support frameworks in important areas, such as support for national theatres, complementary support for local minority self-governments receiving the maintenance of national minority institutions and receiving national minority public education institutions, as well as the opening of a framework for investment, renewal and participation of national minority public education and cultural institutions in the maintenance of national minority self-governments and associations. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Finally, but what I think is very important for our national future: the results of the minority educator programme. I am pleased to report that, as the first point of the national minority educator programme developed in autumn 2016, in order to better appreciate national minority educators, we have increased the minority teacher bonus from 10 to 15 per cent on 1 January 2018, from 15 to 30 per cent on 1 January 2019 and, finally, from 30 to 40 per cent on 1 January 2020. Thus, in two years, we have quadrupled the nationality allowance for ethnic teachers who teach and raise ethnic languages for at least 50 percent of their committed time. At the same time, on 1 January 2020, we introduced two lower levels, a lower 25 per cent and a 10% bonus category for those who had not received a nationality allowance before, so all ethnic teachers are now receiving a nationality allowance, even more differentiatedly, in proportion to their work with education and education in the language of nationality. I think it is important to emphasise that all ethnic teachers of all nationalities, regardless of the maintenance of the national minority allowance, have received it, and that the wage coverage of the national minority bonus increase was not to be managed under another framework, so to speak, but received it as a budgetary surplus each year, and will continue to be received in the future. Thus, the increase in national minority allowances will provide and continue to provide an additional income of nearly HUF 3.5 billion each year for around four thousand ethnic teachers in 2021. As the second very important point of the minority educator's programme, we launched the national education student scholarship. From 1 September 2018, we signed with 87 students from the first year of the first year of the national minority educators, and from 1 September 2019 we signed with 317 young students from all three years of the national minority educators and from the first year of the first year of the teaching, teaching and teaching students. From 1 September 2020, we have been able to extend the scholarship to all six years of the students of national minority education, teachers and teachers, so we have concluded scholarships with 417 students of national minority education. In addition, for the seven nationalities concerned, the full implementation and settlement of the scholarships are carried out by the German Educational and Methodology Centre of Hungary, so we do not burden the state apparatus. At the same time, we have made a major effort towards training universities and colleges in order not only to increase the number of minority students, but also to increase the quality of the education of nationality educators, in particular the significant development of ethnic language competences. However, the bulk of this work is still ahead of us, and I would like to discuss it in a little more detail on Friday. Even during the general debate of the 2017 Central Budget Act and every year since then, at this point, I have continued my contribution by saying that, after all these extremely joyful, long-awaited positive changes, we think that this is a moment when we must, and do so now, all of the problems, tasks and tensions that remain unreserved. On behalf of the 13 indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, I would like to thank, of course, the government, but the entire Hungarian Parliament, each former and present-day Member of Parliament, for their ethnic support over the last seven years. I would also like to thank you for the fact that the affairs of indigenous nationalities in Hungary have been removed from the daily political battles as a sort of unwritten rule, and in the last seven years, all ethnic proposals have essentially been adopted unanimously by Parliament. Thank you very much, God keep this good habit in the future. At the same time, these results and increases in support must be dealt with and evaluated in place with a full overview of the situation of nationalities in Hungary, in addition to the specific figures. On the one hand, who looks at the very positive changes in nationality in recent years, merely at numbers and percentages, and only knows them, you see, it is right to say that the nationalities living in Hungary have received a significant increase in support compared to the general increase in the budget in recent years, and in this respect they are undoubtedly right. On the other hand, who sees it comprehensively, knows in its historical depth the situation of indigenous nationalities living in Hungary; the whole process; the content behind the numbers; how deep we started; the magnitude of our duties in terms of our mother tongue, identity, preservation of our traditions, transfer to and from our children; the extent to which we are in the last hour; the gross assimilation that has been going on for six to seven decades; the fact that the last seven years have been enough to hold on, to receive faith again, and, with a new impetus, to start the long-term programmes that we hope will ensure the survival of indigenous nationalities living in Hungary and the survival of our nationality. The consultation and understanding of these two viewpoints, opinions and the establishment of an appropriate consensus have also been a feature of the process of reconciliation of national needs in relation to the 2019, 2020 and the current draft central fiscal law in 2022. [[13.10]] In order to interpret and compare national minority subsidies in time, it is important to mention that Roma subsidies have been transferred to the 14th edition of the 2020 Central Budget Act. The Ministry of Home Affairs, and the other 12 nationalities, since then, are listed in Chapter XI. It is mentioned in the Prime Minister's Office chapter, and therefore, of course, all 13 nationalities remain members of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, but they still need to be discussed separately, and their data can be found elsewhere in the budget. This was already covered by T/10710. The bill for Hungary's central budget for 2021, which included a surplus of HUF 802.5 million for Roma ethnicity subsidies compared to 2020. This was considered appropriate at the time, so no further increase or amendment was made. However, in the case of the remaining 12 Hungarian nationalities, T/10710. The proposed budget law of 2021 included a real reduction in subsidies of HUF 422 million. The budget requirements of the Hungarian nationalities in the last year of 2021 have therefore been drawn up on the basis of very detailed and thorough surveys and analyses, but unfortunately, the total funding requirement of HUF 1.1 billion has not been included in the budget law of 2021. The need for a fiscal change of 12 nationalities in 2021 has mainly emerged in a focus area, which was the operation of national minority self-governments and the support of institutions maintained by the media and national minority self-governments, which has thus shifted to 2022. Finally, it should be noted that the last three years ago, in the 2019 Central Budget Act, there was an increase in subsidies for national minority self-governments, but since then there have been a series of legislative and economic changes that objectively justify the increase in aid; however, I will discuss them in more detail in my speech tomorrow. In the meantime, thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2021-05-19-36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-19-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, in line with previous years' practice, to respond once again to the most serious and most serious keynote speech. If I may, I would like to start by saying that there have been some findings, both from the pro-government and the opposition benches, which I can fully agree with. Such was the finding that the budget at hand reflects a set of values, and this is the finding that it is worth putting certain items of the budget proposal into context. Allow me to mention this first of all about the value choice and the context mentioned several times by left-wing Members. We have often said that the focus of economic policy is on respect for work and support for families. That is why it was strange that there were comments on the left that the budget for the elimination was what the Parliament was discussing, which did not ensure that wages would be caught up. As a proposal, the minimum wage tax should be changed. It is therefore strange for me that, if we look at the facts, we see that real wages have increased steadily since the growth turn in 2013. Last year, yes, because of the crisis, more people lost their jobs, but I think it is a huge weapon that we were able to maintain the employment level by 800 thousand more than in 2010. And it is a huge weapon that those who have managed to keep their wages have typically increased their wage levels above 9 percent. There was also an increase in the minimum wage this year. And it is quite strange for me that, in addition to the changes made at the minimum wage for the left, it is not taken into account that between 2002 and 2010, those who had no children were able to increase their real income by a little more than 5%. Between 2010 and 2021, this was more than 40 percent. And for those who raised children and had to deal with three children, to provide the source for their livelihoods, their real income fell directly between 2002 and 2010, while the real income of those with three children working on minimum wage, which takes into account taxes and inflation, has now more than doubled. That is why I think it is important to put the economic policy that is about catching up and respecting work in a context, and to compare it with the measures that we saw before 2010 in a completely different economic policy of value. As for the support of families, this is also a long debate between us. Once again, on the left, it was said that the family allowance should be increased. Instead, I would like to point out that, in view of the total amount of family allowances before 2010, we have seen a decrease in the measures taken by the previous economic crisis of 2008-9, reducing family allowances, and now we see that family support is increasing despite the crisis. The other thing is, of course, that, in the case of family support, we put tax incentives first, too, according to the value choice, because those who work and raise children can enforce the benefits and put economic growth first. For this reason, the investment costs of home renovating families are significantly supported by the government, whether it is the purchase of new real estate or the renovation of existing real estate. As far as the deficit level for next year's budget is concerned, I still find it a little strange that I am hearing expressions from the left, as putting them in the context they also requested shows that, before 2010, there was a Europe-recording deficit level in Hungary in the election years. There were six consecutive years when the lack of Hungarian public finances was either the largest or the second largest of the Member States of the European Union. This is the context in which we need to interpret the deficit level of the budget law proposal 2022. What we see is that Hungary's deficit levels are not outstanding in European comparison, and we see that this deficit level can result in a reduction in debt ratios both this year and next year, compared with the fact that the average debt ratio of the European Union is expected to increase this year. The relationship between deficit and growth has been found many times, and President Árpád Kovács has also referred to this and others, including Member Tamás Meltár and Member László Varju, President of the Committee on Budgets. In addition to the fact that, in our view, this deficit level ensures budget financeability and real economic growth at the same time, it contributes substantially to the level of growth. I can also say that it is also due to this deficit level that next year we are calculating an increase of more than 5%. Of course, I agree that if we achieve an increase of more than 5.2 percent, then it is worth considering whether or not to reduce the level of public debt compared to what we have just seen. But again, not only is growth affecting deficit and public debt, but also the deficit level for growth. We see that the potential output of the Hungarian economy in 2022 may still be under actual emissions, as we feel the waves of the crisis. This is when the anti-cyclical economic policy should be pursued, which was also referred to by President László Varju and by Mr Tamás Mellar. This is the case in the economic professional books, which is broadly consensual that when potential emissions are even greater than actual emissions, the government should help. [[13.20]] That is why we have targeted this deficit level of 5.9 percent, but with economic growth starting, this deficit level may decrease in the coming years, to 3 percent in 2024 and 2 percent in 2025, as included in the detailed documents submitted to the Parliament. So from this context, I think that we cannot talk about an election budget, as opposed to, for example, the 2002 or 2006 budgets. President Varju used the word "trick" in debt. Allow me to say that this government is not a trick; if I wanted to be a little picnic, I would say that this government is not a trick with numbers. The fact that the debt ratio may decrease has a substantial role to play in the growth that has been mentioned. Several people have said that we may be too optimistic with a 5.2 percent growth rate. I would like to recall what Minister Mihály Varga said in the Expo. If we look at the European Commission's 5.5 percent increase or if we look at the IMF's public 5.9 percent increase, then we have a good chance of seeing the current government growth rate as a pessimism, and we have a good chance that if we achieve an increase of 5.2 percent, it will be even easier to reduce the debt ratio. I'm not talking about the cost of financing the debt. It has been said many times that, yes, we are financing this rising government debt in 2020 at a much cheaper rate than in the previous crisis, but I also have to say, in the financing channels, that foreign currency debt is in euro, yuan or any other foreign currency, so we are also reducing the foreign currency debt rate from 50% to below 20 percent; this 20 percent should include all kinds of foreign financing. I must reject the statement made by Congresswoman Timea Szabó that Chinese funding can be considered treason. I would like to draw your attention to two things, Congresswoman. On the one hand, China is the second largest source of US debt. Japan is the first, China is the second largest. And let me say one more thing: if the congresswoman looks at, say, the French sovereign debt management website, then it is also available in Chinese. So when you mention treason, I would suggest that President Joe Biden also seek the administration of President Emmanuel Macron, and I would also respectfully ask you to take into account that the diversification of public debt strengthens stability. When we see a cheap financing opportunity, it is worth living with, of course, taking into account the price in addition to the duration and who we pay interest to. Therefore, let us say, the proportion of public funding is by far multiple of any kind of Eastern financing, and we are paying the higher interest rates, yes, to Hungarian citizens. I have already mentioned economic growth, but let me also say that the productivity mentioned by Mr Meltár Tamás is, in our view, contributing precisely to this growth. He asked why productivity would be higher, why productivity would increase: well, mainly due to the high investment rate. Yes, there are infrastructure investments that require concreteisation. But please, let's also see how much private investment is being made. After all, Mr Tamás Mellár, as former President of the Statistical Office, must be a man of numbers, I draw attention to the fact that public investment is highest at European level, represented 6.4 percent in proportion to GDP last year, and I draw attention to the fact that, in addition to this, the investment rate was well above 27 percent, so that most of the investments are carried out by the private sector. Private investment is typically investments that help productivity, and, of course, it is also supported by the government. It is possible to attack the high level of investment, it is possible to attack that we place the emphasis on this, which is what we consider to be the policy of cutting corners, but the statistics, the experience of the past, show that only the country where the investment rate is kept high can be permanently successful in terms of catching up. The figures so far show that this high investment rate marked Hungary, coupled with a substantial catch-up, and that is why we believe that this policy should be pursued. For this reason, last year we not only provided job-saving subsidies, but also financed investments. As far as catching up is concerned, the Member also said that there is no lasting catch-up. Let me mention facts. Since 2010, the cumulative growth of the European Union has been 10.3%, and Hungary has 30.3%. It's a cumulative data. So it can be said that we have been lucky in one year, but in view of this sustained trend, and adding a persistent deficit level of less than 3 per cent between 2012-19 and a declining debt ratio, we can say that there has been a substantial economic catch-up for the core countries of the European Union, and, yes, this has been achieved financially in a sustainable way, as we have already been able to reduce the debt ratio in parallel. This is the economic policy that we intend to continue in 2022. As regards inflation, inflation is an indicator of the central bank's attention and the central bank's task is to keep inflation in check. Of course, budgetary policy has a substantial impact on inflation and, of course, there is strategic cooperation with the central bank, where we see that these economic results are also due to the measures taken by the central bank. Returning to inflation, we are indeed expecting inflation in excess of 3 percent this year. That could be between 3.5 and 4 percent. If we look at next year's inflation rate, then the central bank is also calculating inflation of around 3 percent. Of course, as Vice-President Barnabas Virág said, measures may also need to be taken to keep inflation in check, but I repeat, there is consensus with the central bank that the inflation rate of 3 percent next year can be realistic. Congressman Antal Csárdi said that due to high inflation the VAT on basic foods should be reduced. I'd like to remember two things here. If I remember correctly, the tax reduction for basic foods presented by the government and supported by Fidesz-KDNP was not voted for by LMP, whether it be milk, eggs, VAT reduction for different meat products. My second point is that the Member has also pointed out that, in the longer term, the price of these products is determined by supply and demand. Yes, a VAT reduction may have a one-off effect if the sellers immediately validate it in the prices. But we also know that this is not always validated, and in the long term, demand-to-demand will determine the processes. Therefore, we focus on increasing the income of families and buying products with higher incomes. We can see that this was a success. Overall, incomes have also increased, savings have also increased, consumption has also increased and investments have also increased. Then allow me to turn to a few criticisms of budget expenditure items. Local governments. Several serious statements were made: elimination, bleeding out of municipalities, political discrimination. Allow me to tell you the facts. Indeed, last year, protection against the epidemic and the protection of jobs required sacrifices from everyone. The amount of the car tax was spent on defence in the central budget instead of the municipalities. This amounted to HUF 34.4 billion. Let me mention that we spent over a thousand billion forints last year on the control of the epidemic alone, so the redirected HUF 34.4 billion should be interpreted in this context. What has been the result of this economic downturn, the inevitable economic downturn, which was smaller in Hungary than the EU average, and the other measures aimed at protecting the economy for municipalities? At the end of 2019, the total amount of government debt and commercial bank funds was HUF 1080.5 billion and HUF 1048.1 billion at the end of 2020. That's less than a 3 percent drop. [[13.30]] I repeat: 1048.1 billion HUF at the end of 2020. Is that what we call bleeding out? So I accept that many municipalities have had a serious task of partially financing the control of the epidemic, because many municipalities have been involved in this, and the financing of the tasks has been a serious task, but overall, we cannot talk about a financial collapse or bleeding out. As far as the 2022 budget is concerned, the financial margin of the central budget will be increased when the budget proposal is adopted, due to two factors: on the one hand, the local government solidarity contribution will be reduced by HUF 25.2 billion, and on the other hand, the support of municipalities will increase by HUF 8.6 billion. This represents nearly HUF 34 billion, and I think it is more important that the economic growth of more than 5 per cent is expected by the municipalities to expect a new increase in business tax revenues. I would like to recall that, between 2014 and 2019, business tax revenues, which represent the main revenue of municipalities, increased by 50 percent, and therefore the municipalities also aim to succeed in terms of economic growth. As regards political discrimination, I would like to ask Members of the Council to consult on their budget related to the 2021 central budget, on the solidarity contribution and on grants, such as the leaders of Pécs, Szeged or Hódmezővásárhely, and they will say that their financial position has improved from 2020 to 2021, as regards direct budgetary relations, because in many cases budget subsidies have increased more than the said solidarity contribution. Education, health-care hits. Once again, let me recall the numbers, putting them in context with previous data. Health: on the basis of OECD data, over a multi-annual period, health expenditure per capita decreased in Hungary and has since increased; total resources for health in the 2010 budget amounted to HUF 1197.7 billion, HUF 2883 billion in 2022 and HUF 1686 billion in the increase. Education.............................................................................................................................................................................................. [[László Varju: in proportion to GDP?]] Congressman, I hear your comment. Thank God that GDP has increased by 30 percent. Congressman! What would have happened if Hungary, let's say, had taken the Greek route and kept education or health expenses only at a level? He would have seen a deep flight we shouldn't have experienced. So my claim is that health and education expenditures have also increased nominally and in real terms, corrected by inflation. The Member is right to say that there have been years when the expansion of the Hungarian economy, to be thankful to God, has exceeded this growth, but let us not deviate from the facts. Education, if I mentioned the area, in the language of numbers: HUF 1445 billion in 2010, HUF 2180.7 billion in 2022, and HUF 735.7 billion in growth. Again, serious allegations were made on the left-wing side of pensions. On the part of the MSZP, Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group, said that it is considered important as a left-wing party that poverty in old age be eradicated in Hungary. In addition to remembering a period of economic crisis in which a month's pension had to be given up for those concerned, the draft budget law for next year still includes two weeks' pensions as part of the recovery of the 13th month's pension; it states that, thanks to economic growth, we hope it will be possible to pay the pension premium; and it includes maintaining the real value of pensions. It has increased by around 10 percent since 2010 and will be increased by 3 percent in inflation next year by the government, of course, if inflation is higher, the additional increase will be implemented by the government. Finally, allow me to respond to the date and detail of the submission of the bill. With regard to the date, the accusation that the government submitted the bill too early, the past figures are not known, and the result of this year's developments is not yet known. I draw attention here to the fact that last year's figures are available not only on the website of government agencies, not only in the various documents of the bill, but also on the Eurostat website, for example. So if someone finds government numbers uncredited, please look at the website of international organizations. All factual data on the performance of the Hungarian economy, the state of public finances are available, and I think that if we look at the budgets between 2016 and 2019, where the budget has always been adopted in the spring, then we see that, yes, these budgets submitted in the spring have stood on their feet. The debt reduction, the deficit level set by the Parliament, the government fulfilled and, as far as economic growth is concerned, has in many cases exceeded. There is no doubt that the years 2020-21 have been rewritten by the corona virus epidemic in Hungary, and the budgetary documents have had to be changed, and there is nothing special about this compared to other European countries. We hope for a rapid increase in grafting, and we hope that we may be able to reach a consensus to ensure that as many people take the vaccine as possible. If this happens, the recovery and recovery of the economy can also be faster, we can be confident that this epidemic will not come back again, and that the budget figures we are discussing will be realistic at the end of 2022. As regards the detail, I would like to ask Members of Parliament, with respect to the comments of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát and several Members, to review not only the extensive 300-page document submitted by the government as a proposal for a budget law to Parliament on 4 May, but also the detailed documents submitted ten days later under the Public Finance Act. [[He's showing it to me.]] We will explain the details of the budget on page 1260, in which you can get answers to a number of items, which I am not going to mention in detail in view of the time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-38	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed answers. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik. Here you go.
u2021-05-19-39	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Hungary has been at the door of an unprecedented social crisis since the global crisis in 2008 due to the consequences of the corona virus epidemic. More than 10,000 This epidemic has already taken its toll, and for the time being, we cannot estimate the long-term consequences of the long-term damage to the health of Hungarian people, the bankrupt businesses, domestic violence, lost jobs and the psychological disturbances of our children. The budget law is always more than just a set of numbers and data, human fates and human lives behind these numbers. When a government decides what taxes it will collect next year, what wages it will pay, how much credit it will take and how it will be, and how the life prospects, including entrepreneurs, civil servants, university students, pensioners, usually develop, it will always issue a certificate, and it will always write how much it appreciates its own citizens, set up a framework for how and how it is worth to thrive in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say, a long time ago, there was a budget that would have been so much waiting in society. Health workers expected that, as a result of the epidemic, decision-makers would finally face the catastrophic conditions affecting health institutions. Teachers hoped that the need for online education would highlight the backward infrastructure of these institutions, the fact that there are parts of the country where students do not have access to basic digital content, not to mention that where they have received, for example, they did not receive regular digital education because it is not normal digital education that the teacher sends their homework by e-mail. [[13.40]] Hundreds of thousands of people who lost their income and suffered a severe loss of income expected that in exchange for their income lost due to restrictions, the tax they paid for many years and decades into the state register, and then the Hungarian government, with substantial help, would listen to their complaints and give them a helping hand. They all had to be disappointed: the propaganda paid by our taxes not only suppressed critical voices, but also became blind and deaf to complaints that came from the most diverse areas of Hungarian reality. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, there is no evidence in this budget that you have learned any lessons from this incredibly terrible year that we have had behind us. But let's look at the specifics. What do we see in health care? The Ministry sends a two-day deadline to health care professional colleges to assess the number of different hospital beds and institutions in the country. Despite the rebuttal of the EMMI, based on the bitter experience of recent decades, this suggests that you are preparing for hospital closure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Have you really learned this lesson from the last year? Seeing the health system dancing on the brink of collapse during the peak of the epidemic, seeing doctors, medical staff, nurses who are on the verge of their performance, seeing the horrific deaths, you have concluded that fewer hospitals are needed in this country? John Lazarus recently triumphantly announced that the land was coming. Is that what you mean, fellow Members of the House of Fidesz? Does that mean the country's coming now? After all, we know about the hospital closures, that they have always been primarily affected by rural medium and large cities. But what about public education? In more developed countries, educator is one of the most sought after professions. We know that this is an illusion in Hungary today, and even the demand for this would be demagogy, but we do expect them to earn at least the Hungarian average wage from our teachers and teachers, from daycare to primary school and high schools, including the provision of children with special educational needs. Yes, dear members of the government, you have heard well, the Hungarian average wage you like to refer to, which, according to the latest data of the HCSO, is currently gross HUF 411,000. This, of course, does not reflect the actual income conditions in Hungary, because if you look at the distorting effect of the richest 1 percent and you look at how much money the average of the Hungarian population actually brings home, then this median value is now somewhere at 292 thousand forints. But if you're always referring to this 400,000 forint, why don't we tie the wages of the teachers to this? In addition, it would be an example: for example, the wages of Members of Parliament are linked not to the median value, but to the average wage. I was not yet a member of the Hungarian Parliament when you voted on salary increases, but if you have already done so, it would be expected that all those who do at least as important work as the members of the legislative process should be brave and gradually raise their salary and pay, as well as those who do responsible work. I am talking about people who have spent their lives raising intelligent, diligent, and honest citizens from our children. But not only in public education, there is a need for radical wage increases, but also in higher education. It is a shame and a shame, my fellow Members, that today in Hungary, a junior university assistant earns gross HUF 200-220 thousand. Even more can be collected as a student worker at McDonald's on an hourly basis. Amazing! It's amazing where we've fallen, how much the country doesn't appreciate its own educated people, its own researchers, and how this government is watching our best people leave this country! In view of this, the Chinese private university is particularly open-minded, with a budget of HUF 100 billion, instead of putting this into Hungarian higher education, scholarships, the wages of researchers, teachers, not only in iron and concrete, but also in human capital. Not to mention the huge amount of credit they're taking in and indebted to the country in return. And although it is not part of the central budget of the Parliament, it is not possible to pass the HUF 1500 billion promised by Viktor Orbán himself in exchange for Hungarian university leaders and university students to give up their autonomy and, in exchange for development money, tolerate Hungarian higher education falling into the laps of fidesz politicians and fidesz executives. Because this was the case, the suggestion or the pressure to let Hungarian higher education out into its foundation form, in return there will be a lot of money at the house. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is no news or ashes of this money. In the document submitted to the European Union, which would have had a financial background for all this extra money in higher education, the Hungarian government waived this EU preferential loan. It does not have any collateral, a fraction of which is included in the current budget and the current EU funding. Such an impertinent setup and feeding into the university sphere, even by fidesz standards, I think it's a shock. While you will build Chinese private universities for hundreds of billions, while there is a higher education institution in this country, it is not one where students and students in class have to share wifi with teachers, because unlike them, there are still some who can afford to have unlimited internet subscriptions on their mobile phones, because otherwise they would not be able to keep the lessons and presentations. We have come this far, fellow Members. You can point it back, there's a reason to point it back before 2010. But what has happened in the past 11 years in the country, in public education, in higher education, there is no place for them to hide or point their finger at. It's your loss, and you have to account for your own conscience, if you ever speak again. Finally, I would like to point out some further anomalies that are now apparent from this budget. We do not have László Domokos, a senior Member of the Court of Auditors in this Chamber, but he was in the debate. I don't see the one-digit sja that the Prime Minister had in mind in 2013. László Domokos, President of the Court of Auditors, proposed once again last September the introduction of a single-key sja, but however I look at this budget, I see no trace of it, but it would have been a brave move. That would have been the bravest move. Why didn't they do that? Why did you turn your back, my fellow members of the government? I don't see in this budget the complaints of the taxpayers, the katás entrepreneurs, who are encoded and forced by the latest restrictions to do the trick we wanted to get rid of, we want to free the entrepreneurial sphere. I don't see the outlines of a fairer and more predictable pension system. What I see is that the Hungarian government, with the promise of the 13th month pension, is buying votes and forcing pension recipients into an addictive relationship that creates terrible social tensions and is unsustainable in the long term. There is no reason I did not vote for this as a single Member here, within the walls of this House. I don't see it either, while I have all the respect for our elderly countrymen that the government would also think of those who have built this country not only in the past, but they're building it now or at least building it, if you'd let them take this country on their backs now. I am talking about tax-paying citizens, honourable Members, who are always at the end of the line, whom no one is thinking about. I also do not see that you would appreciate these citizens, the taxpayers whose work we pay pensions from, and all the other public expenditure. I do not see the reimbursement of revenue received from the municipalities, and I see the exact opposite. The Hungarian state enters where it has no place to be, see the local authorities, and it is at least so bad that it exits from where it has an obligation to stand, such as public education, such as higher education, such as broadened employee rights. [[13.50]] Because at present, there is no guarantee that Hungary will not be a assembly plant in the breasts of the German automotive industry, where there is little employee rights, and where nothing is built from its own head of well, but never reimbursable large investments. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I do not see the outlines of civil Hungary in this budget, which you once represented in a loud voice before this was denied, and before they reduced the ideal of civil Hungary to a political product. I do not see the visions that would make this country the leading country of Central Europe from a low-source, vulnerable and basic competitive disadvantage, a post-communist country struggling with corruption. CHAPTER XX The century was about iron and concrete, the 21st century. The century, on the other hand, is about knowledge and a world of ability, where not the strongest, but the smartest takes everything; where the future is shaped by independent, self-conscious and self-sufficient citizens, not by those who are vulnerable to the state. This is the vision on which we have now had no viable, honest and meaningful response to this political elite for 30 years; this is the Hungary that our movement, the Civil Reply represents, we believe, and that is why we are working, and that is why we will have the future. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-05-19-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group.
u2021-05-19-41	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I came in at eight in the morning to listen to the three expos. Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, perhaps we could expect nothing less, thought that the criticism would be said by the opposition, so his presentation seemed that everything was perfectly resolved by the government during the crisis. Let me quote one fact: the state of the economy is well reflected in the winding-ups; in the first half of 2020, the number of winding-ups increased by 40 percent compared to the previous year. So, a record number of entrepreneurs decided willingly to terminate their business. That's a pretty negative figure. But also, Minister, he did not quote from the analysis of the Fiscal Council that he is in excess of the 5.9 percent deficit, although President Kovács also said that he would recommend this to Parliament. My personal opinion is that next year, we still need to continue anti-cyclical economic policy, which is what Minister of State Banai has said. So if the health situation is restored, the economy still needs the State surplus. But I have to add a very important condition on the basis of the lessons learned, and I say it very delicately, because Minister of State Banai is not engaged in political battles either: if these amounts continue to serve a larger part of a special entrepreneurial circle to such an extent that they are not in line with national objectives, then this countercyclical policy will have no benefit. And the fact that, while the Chinese loan is being taken by the United States, and we are criticizing Joe Biden, is the United States taking on serious funds for the establishment of Fudan University led by Communist spirit? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The United States is building a railroad from a port in Los Angeles to Mexico on loan? No. So this is a little different. Thank you.
u2021-05-19-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-19-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to return there, although the fact that Mr Secretary of State has initiated a debate or joined this debate is certainly welcome, even in two minutes. But I would like to emphasise that, in this situation, we are in a corner, and that is what you are proclaiming, the President of the National Bank, the Minister of Finance and, in the meantime, the pro-government representatives, and they are giving gas, with this budget, right, they say that they are doing this, then essentially it means that they are unpredictable and unpredictable. Just think about it, when you cross the curve on the outer curve, it's unpredictable and unpredictable what's going to happen. And that's what you're putting Hungary into, that's how you do it. (In the notary seat Dr. Csabat Gyüre It's replaced by Gergely Harvesto.) If I compare this with a 5.2 percent increase, to which you referred here, Secretary of State, that the deficit level and the extent of that in itself compared to growth, yes, this is in relation to each other, but if this investment is... just now, as my fellow Member has said, spending the state's money on people in this period when the hunt exhibition shows the famous doorway of antlers, then I think that many people will have to explain why this was necessary, apart from the fact that it will appear here in the numbers. But, with all due respect, neither small pensioners, nor families, nor businesses who have remained unemployed and uncontractual during this period have been given any assistance, and therefore this budget is unacceptable as it is. And I'm not suggesting you guys go around the corner and drive a gas. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. There will now be further speeches by Members. As the debate on the budget is also on the EU agenda, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Deutsch, Member of the European Parliament, Fidesz-KDNP Group.
u2021-05-19-45	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. If I may, I would like to briefly address three issues in today's general debate on the draft law on Hungary's budget for 2022. One is linked to an exciting, new left-wing phenomenon that can be defined as hyperpassive knowledge. Secondly, I would like to say briefly how honest, honest, well-willed Hungarian people can count on the Hungarian left in difficult times. And last but not least, allow me to say that in relation to the 2022 budget, [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Let's talk about the budget. The president's ringing the bell.]] what EU development resources are available and what makes these resources available in next year's budget. First of all, I deeply agree with that, although left-wing MEP here in the Hungarian Parliament or the Christian Democrat, Fidesz, national representative belonging to the governing parties [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Na!]] , a proposal for a budget law, a draft law containing more than numbers, this means a value choice, which sets out the clear and clear objectives that the Hungarian national community intends to pursue in the year ahead. Unfortunately, I am old enough to remember that in the years behind us, in decades, the Hungarian left kept talking about the possibility of having a government economic policy in Hungary, having a budget that can simultaneously achieve the goal of reducing taxes, taxes and contributions to be paid by natural persons, as well as taxes to Hungarian businesses, micro, small, medium-sized and family enterprises, but even to large companies in Hungary, it is impossible to reduce unemployment at the same time, to reduce the lack of budget, to reduce inflation, and at the same time increase the country's economic performance, increase the amount of family support, increase employment, more people can work, increase the performance of the Hungarian economy, increase incomes, whether it is a minimum wage or even an average income. [[14.00]] So that's impossible! It is not possible to reduce inflation, reduce deficits, reduce taxes, reduce unemployment, and at the same time to achieve better economic performance in Hungary, so that if only step by step, but every family can live better; and, of course, our personal goals are always ahead of our options, life is just like that. It's impossible! And you have this completely defetist position, when you have the opportunity and the opportunity to do so, in a government position. They didn't do anything impossible. They didn't do anything wrong. Let's look at those facts, those numbers. We do not want to drive out of a debate in Parliament on a proposal for a budget law because of the figures that show the terrible data that marked Hungary between 2002 and 2010. Well, my dear left-wing representatives, the good news is not bad, that what you consider impossible is possible. Hungary has been on the road to reducing taxes for almost a decade now, reducing unemployment, falling inflation, obviously a tragedy until the crisis comes, but I think that perhaps this is not necessarily why Viktor Orbán should be responsible for the new coronal virus epidemic, although your imagination is clearly boundless in this respect; but debt has decreased and the number of new jobs has increased, employment has increased, incomes have increased radically, the amount of family support has increased and the performance of the Hungarian economy has increased. I have the good news that, although you are all in favour of internationalism and internationalism, there is a suitable Hungarian economic model, which is not favourable to the government, but beneficial to the Hungarian people. And thanks to this successful or successful Hungarian economic model, you will be presenting exciting, imaginative texts in Parliament between 2010-14, driven by all kinds of hyperpassive knowledge, but then there will be a competition and there will be a loss. They also do this between 14-18: there comes a competition in politics, there they lose. This is what they did between 18-22, and there will be a challenge, and they will lose again, because you are characterised by hyperpassive knowledge, but not by Hungarian citizens. Second, the other element of hyperpassive knowledge is that although there are important value choices in a budget, it doesn't hurt to talk about facts, numbers, so despite their hyperpassive mathematics skills, [[Interventions in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that, in 2022, the budget bill intends to increase by at least 5 per cent, by 5.2 per cent in economic growth, by 3 per cent in monetary decline, by inflation, by around 5.9 per cent in GDP, this represents a significant deficit reduction, and it is the government debt falling below 79,3 per cent of GDP that is set out in the budget law on the basis of the figures and the figures of the tenth system. Yes, it was hit that, in addition to the severe personal, family, community trials, tragedies and difficulties of the new coronal virus epidemic, this would lead to economic damage, the global economic crisis. It is also instructive that, just ten years ago, we were also in the context of an economic crisis, we existed, and you presented a budget proposal for a tax increase, which was a proposal for a 13th month pension; a budget proposal was submitted for the termination of the 13th month salary of people on wages and salaries, which concerned a significant reduction in family support. Don't think that with the particular brainwashing that you've been through in person, these facts have been erased from your brain, that ten million Hungarians have forgotten this! Hell, no. To quote classics, because I didn't express argo, I used the expression of your leader. Hell, no. You remember well, because it's an ordeal in your personal life. Compared to this, in the context of a more serious crisis, the restoration of 13 months' pensions, the increase in family support, the further reduction of taxes, this is the way we are going, because this is impossible in your perception; but the fact is that what is impossible in your perception is actually showing your inability. Second, let me say a word about the crisis. The fact that there is a crisis, in a difficult situation in the crisis, so as not to say squabbled metaphors, in a war situation, it would be necessary to join forces on the part of one nation. The fact is that you do not feel that the majority of Parliament's two-thirds majority could not count on it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] The millions of Hungarians couldn't count. In the slightest way, day after day, you have listened to the opinion of your modest political advisors, and you have spoken out here in Parliament and outside of one goal, how you can take political advantage of this difficult situation, in no small way, in any way, in any way, in the world that you have helped Hungarian people in any way. Nothing! It is impossible that, after you have done all your energy to increase the bad effects of the crisis, because the worse the better the unbelievable imaginable strategy was followed, because then you will be able to make some good promises compared to the bad, and the interest of tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of voters will turn to you. Well, I'm not gonna quote your leader again. That's not true! On the other hand, there is a common experience that defines the personal lives of millions of citizens, deeply ingrained in the minds and souls of people. The bigger the problem, the less, in fact, when there's a real problem, you can't be counted on at all. Last but not least, let me tell you about the EU funds for the 2022 budget. The budget of 2022 includes a total of HUF 3001 billion of EU development resources, which exceed HUF 3000 billion; it helps to increase the lives of Hungarian citizens as part of the otherwise unprecedented historical comparison of a large scale economic recovery plan of HUF 7308 billion. Well, the truth is, if it had been up to you, this HUF 3001 billion would have been about HUF 100-150 billion. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: How do you know that? Honestly. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would have continued without questioning the left-wing Member, who had difficulty communicating, so that everyone would know that your MEPs are all four DKs, one eye, to be precise, the last MSZP MEP, the two left-wing MEPs outside Parliament, and the one last right-wing MEP for many years, have done everything in the European Parliament to ensure that Hungary, the Hungarian citizens, has access to as little European Union funding as possible. First, it was invented, and a dozen amendments were made to change the recent 20-30-40-year-old EU development policy practice, a legal system whereby European development resources would be placed in so-called national envelopes, and these funds should be direct funds in Brussels. Wow, that's a nice way of putting it. Compared to the indirect, it's more spacious, it's more cuddly. The following was the proposal. If the Hungarian national envelope had turned these funds into a direct source in Brussels, then they would not automatically have come to the Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, the Hungarian education system, the Hungarian infrastructure development, but would have been included in a financial hat that everyone would have to apply for, for example, the Municipality of Budapest and the Hódmezővásárhely, together with the Pécs and Miskolc, Barcelona, Glasgow and all Western European settlements, regions and governments. [[14.10]] And at best, a country can win the share of this money in proportion to the number of people in the world. Hungary accounts for some 2.1-2.2% of the citizens of the European Union. It would have meant that if this money had been transferred directly to the money that could be tendered in Brussels, we would have lost about 97.5-98 percent of that money. You deliberately wanted to do this, and in this spirit you spoke here at the Hungarian Parliament on political debate day, and made proposals and positions to amend it: you wanted to take away, steal, steal from Hungarian citizens nearly 98 percent of the European Union's development resources, more than 97 percent. Then they formulated a brilliant proposal, which strongly supports your political impartiality, to label the resources due to Hungary in such a way that a significant part of them goes to the opposition authorities; the funds should be labelled on a political basis. You said that money cannot be labeled on a political basis. Compared to this, such a proposal was submitted. Now, after two defeats in the rule of law, I'm not talking about a lied money-taking wrenches, because it's not just your brainchild, they're writing letters to everyone on a daily basis. Otherwise, there is a problem with consultation on the use of EU funds in Hungary, so these funds should not come. What's on the tube, dear left. What is available on the tube, do not give this money to the Hungarian citizens. So I must say that I applaud the calmness, calmness and consistency of the Hungarian government, which will give Hungary at least EUR 40 billion in EU development resources. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This money had to be protected and even more supported than the original Commission proposal, so that you wanted to take the vast majority of these money away from Hungary almost to the last cent, because your philosophy: the worse, the better. (The President rang.) Fortunately, we managed to stop this digging, so that we can have 3001 billion European Union development funds in the 2022 budget with joy and satisfaction from all well-spoken Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-19-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-19-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Here, in the keynote speeches, we have heard in broad terms what the pro-government ideas are, why they consider this budget to be good, and the opposition's criticism of this. However, I would like to go into a few things in a little bit more detail. One of them is green policy. Unfortunately, it can also be seen in this budget that there is no less, but unfortunately no more in recent years, and so I do not know how we are going to achieve the progress that the government itself has announced, in the context of the climate action plan, in which, in fact, we have laid down aspects, objectives that we really need to achieve. Obviously, I have said this many times here in Parliament, that it would have been good if this had been adopted in the form of opposition motions in previous years, then perhaps we would have moved forward. But anyway, the point is, once you've seen the need to take action in this area. On the other hand, this is not so spectacular in terms of materiality, the distribution of state resources and EU funds. (László Földi in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) But why are these areas important? Perhaps, unfortunately, it was the Covid epidemic that proved most of all how sensitive the Hungarian economy is, how vulnerable we are to such external influences. Perhaps that is why the statement that Mihály Varga had made earlier was also important, that the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian national economy, should not be sharpened on the automotive industry; that should not be the fundamental pillar; that should not be the assembly plants, which are based on this, should define the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian labour force, the Hungarian labour market relations, but a completely different structure. This is where the opportunity would be, I think, by putting green policy first, and by focusing on green investments that could otherwise create strong and secure jobs for the Hungarian population in the long term; for the Hungarian population, of whom hundreds of thousands have unfortunately lost their jobs. Here it has been said several times today that the government has been able to provide a solution to this, but we are in the same number of jobs where, before that, they just forget to add that most of these workers who have lost their jobs have found new jobs in the past, say, one year, because there have been market conditions, such as, say, the need for extra labour in certain sectors, see delivery to the house. And in these sectors, these people who lost their jobs were able to get laid. So this is not a government success, and I think that is simply how the market dictated it, but there are still many people still waiting for a new job. This type of green investment could provide them with job opportunities, since educational programmes could be built on it, institutions and educational institutions could be entrusted with these educational programmes, where we could integrate these unemployed people into this sector, and later they could be placed. I do not think it is a good direction, however, that no more resources are available for this sector compared to previous years, that it is also possible to achieve a real reduction in the country, because the more people, the more households, the more condominiums we can get and encourage it to enter the system of renewable energy sources and build such ones on their houses, their condominiums, the more people we can otherwise tear off from the central system. We can create more self-sustaining households, and the less energy demand will be in Hungary, which has increased significantly in recent years. Well, we can see that industrial demand is also increasing and the demand for the population is increasing: more and more gadgets are growing among people. And we must start to shape this approach. On the one hand, an approach is needed to prevent the use of unnecessary objects from being used or to fill them as little as possible, but obviously there are needs, the 21st century. This is why it is important for households to be as independent as possible in the field of energy production, and this would be a real reduction in their costs. I am, however, partly pleased that the government has begun to encourage solar panels, its use, we see that solar panels have appeared in quite a number of places in the country, but we also see this, and in this we have recently had a bill in which we discussed that greenfield investments have also been made in this area, which are not necessarily beneficial. For example, Sándor Font is sitting here, and I'm sure he will say the same thing, or he can confirm that these areas should not be taken away from agriculture. That is why brownfield investments exist, or that is why brownfield investments can be made there. And if it is renewable energy, then obviously I should also mention the use of wind energy, which, I know, is subject to great rejection from the pro-government part, but we should really think about it now that, with the emergence of new technologies, there are areas, not much, but there are areas in the country where this could be used economically. I think that if the budget does not devote sufficient resources to this area and to these areas, the government's climate protection strategy cannot be achieved either. Another area is employment and wages, which I have already touched on at some level, and it has been said several times today that, according to KSH, the Hungarian average income is exactly HUF 414 400 gross, but if we look at the median, which is one degree closer to reality, then we get a HUF 100 thousand less gross. [[14.20]] And what we know very well is that people don't actually live off their gross income, but on their net income. So it is easy to calculate how much Hungarian people work every day, and how much they have to assign to them for a month while inflation is quite high at the moment, and they have to buy products in the store with record VAT. The purchasing power of the forint is therefore constantly weakening and fuel prices are also rising. These are all things that negatively affect people's everyday life and define it very seriously. That is why I say that this budget does not serve the people, but forces them, the people and, by the way, businesses to take credit. I think it's a good budget where people and businesses need to be given as little credit as possible or put into such a situation on a voluntary basis. A good budget which, by the way, ensures that Hungarian workers receive adequate wages and, for example, should be heavily reduced in Hungary today. Here I would like to mention, as a positive point, that we agree with the sia-freeness of people under the age of 25, because obviously this was a better proposal a year ago. We welcome the introduction of this. Otherwise, this could be extended to the minimum wage earners. I have had several suggestions in the last six months that would have given extra leave to Hungarian taxpayers, Hungarian workers, as I think you have also experienced that, unfortunately, thanks to the epidemic, the sector that I mentioned was the assembly plants that were forced to stop because of a lack of capacity, and that the people working in these plants had to take 5, 10 or even 15 working days, even in the previous year, and unfortunately this trend continued in the current year 2021. That is why it would have been good if our proposal had been adopted, which would have given every parent under the age of 14 an extra five days of state leave. Of course, we still haven't given up on this effort. And what's real, by the way. I worked for a multi-company for ten years, if you like, in a assembly plant like this, although it was not exactly my job, but I did physical work, and during these ten years I managed to experience what Hungarian reality is, and what is the difference between this and KSH's income of HUF 414 400, and believe me, it is heaven and earth. So if you'd like to get to know the Hungarian reality a little better, then I'm asking you to talk to a worker, it doesn't matter if he lives in Békéscsaba, Nyíregyháza, Zalaegerszeg or even Esztergom, who works in a factory, what his experience is, and how he can come out of his salary anyway. 'Cause unfortunately, most people can't make it out of their paychecks, and by the way, pensioners are subject to the same thing. In the third round, I would like to share with you some thoughts about my constituency, the second constituency of Komárom-Esztergom County. Komárom-Esztergom county also has the second largest side road network in the country, but, unfortunately, it has been the second least resource for the renovation of these routes for many years. And, among other things, we now have roads, such as Cookies and Tardos, which are absolutely impenetrable, so that it is actually life-threatening to travel on that road. For example, the Dorog-Cholnok route, such as Pilischev or Kesztölc's main road, but in Esztergom's Esztergom garden town, there are streets that still do not have solid road surfaces. And once they're there, and don't give it to me, even the rain is raining, then go into these streets calmly, to the Tátorkői or Temesvári or to the Boundary Street, and they'll see for themselves that the traffic is difficult even on foot. The M10 road has been under discussion for a long time, by the way, and the government has been planning for a very long time to make some progress in this matter. Now we've learned that there are two thousand fifty-something plans to achieve this. Now they are focusing on the M100, which I am also supporting, because there is not a settlement in my constituency that can be positively affected by the construction of this road, but they always forget that the number 10 main road is loaded at such a level that the traffic of the M2 road is now being overrun, so it is well beyond that, and the civilians and professionals all warn that this area needs an escape route, it simply cannot get away with it. And believe me... or if you don't believe me, you can also visit here, any weekday between 8:00 and 5:00 p.m., and then you'll see with your own eyes that Pilisvörösvár, Piliscsaba, or even Dorogon, the effect of this traffic, that you simply can't cross the road, people can't get out of the driveway, it's almost impossible to drive out of the side streets, and not to mention the health risk of this increased traffic. So I would like to say once again that I hope that my amendment in this regard will perhaps please you and at least start a dialogue on the construction of this M10 road. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-05-19-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Commission, KDNP Group. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2021-05-19-49	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget submitted by the government for 2022 is the budget for the re-launch of our country. The challenges caused by the coronal virus epidemic give Hungary a chance to become one of the winning countries of the post-pest global economic era. In this way, the budget supports the economic re-launch action plan, the largest economic policy programme in the history of modern Hungary, which is also about restarting life in addition to re-launching the economy. The 2022 budget is suitable for Hungary to make an outstanding European comparison, so that we can get out of the crisis more strongly than we have been in. Remember: Families and children are the future of a nation, so the draft budget for next year will further expand the support of families with children and with children while also assessing pensioners, as next year's draft budget also calculates expenditures such as the gradual retirement of the 13th month pension and the salary of the pension premium. Don't forget that those under 25 who do work will be exempt next year. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, we can already factually conclude that next year's budget is the budget for the re-launch of the country, which aims to ensure dynamic economic growth for our country. In the budget of 2022, the government expects an economic growth of 5.2 per cent, with a deficit target of 5.9 per cent and a government debt of 79,3 per cent. The year 2021 is about reaching the level where the holding was at the time of the outbreak of the Crown Virus by the end of the year. The year 2022 is about how to continue this growth, with a HUF 7300 billion reboot fund. It is also a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungary's economic policy, which is saving the future, has worked. [[14.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, It is expected that the return to normality will take place quickly in the field of the economy as soon as the epidemic has passed, and the successful period that has marked the Hungarian economy in the last ten years before the outbreak may continue. We have also managed to open a new era in health care, we have stopped the thank-you money, and at the same time we have carried out significant increases in medical wages. Next year, there will be HUF 769 billion more in healthcare than in 2021. Thus, we can say that in 11 years we have doubled the spending on health care. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition, job protection measures have been successful. This is shown by the fact that the number of people employed in Hungary again exceeds 4.6 million. This means that more people have already worked in March 2021 than in the same period before the pandemic in 2019. Of course, it also required the healing work of doctors and nurses, since everyone who was humanly cured was cured. Thank you to doctors and nurses, as well as to all those involved in the fight against the virus. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, no government has ever spent as much money on family support as it has in the draft 2022 budget. In this way, support and protection for families will be highlighted in next year's budget. Next year, there will be 483 billion forints more for families than this year. In particular, this means that a total of HUF 2778 billion will be available for the benefit of families. This is almost three times the amount in the last left-wing budget in 2010. Remember that when the left was in power, they took away from the families the housing subsidies introduced by the first Orbán government, the family tax relief and reduced the duration of the child and the child. On top of that, the left wanted to tax the family allowance and maternity allowance, while raising the overhead. Remember, too, that when the left was in opposition, they did not vote for support for children, but all voted against it. However, you can always count on Fidesz-KDNP. The Fidesz-KDNP has chosen another way out of the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. This is the way to continue to stand up for and support families, at the same time to help create jobs and help the economy grow. Ladies and Gentlemen, As Chairman of the Judicial Committee, I would like to finally talk about chapter X of the draft budget for next year, which concerns the enforcement of the government's judicial policy, thereby the Ministry of Justice itself. The Ministry of Justice will continue to have an important objective of increasing legal competitiveness in 2022. The Ministry can contribute to Hungary's economic performance by creating, simplifying and making it more transparent and reducing administrative burdens. The harmonisation of legislation coordinated by the IM is a permanent, professionally wide-ranging coordination and monitoring activity, which includes the legal control of the draft domestic legislation in the Union and its adaptation to the changing legal provisions of the EU, as well as the coordination of the legislative activities of the wallets. Deregulation work will continue in this context. The protection of Hungarian constitutional identity and the strengthening of international acceptance is also one of the key tasks of the IM. The Mádl Ferenc Comparative Law Institute, under the direction of IM, supports the domestic legislative activity by carrying out international comparative legal research and analysis, making a major contribution to improving the quality of legislation. The resources available to the IM in 2022 to achieve the above objectives: HUF 15.7 billion for institutions, HUF 4 billion for chapter management appropriations. The above expenditure amounts will now be examined in detail. First, we look at the individual institutions for the purpose of fulfilling their responsibilities with the institutions. Justice Department. As part of the basic administrative activity of the IM, it shall carry out the legal, economic, human policy, IT, functional and professional tasks necessary for its operation. It also provides for a register of centralised revenues in connection with the business register and the company information service. In its task of the Judicial Services Law Academy, it operates the institution for the sake of effective justice, which, through its professional controls, methodological resolutions, the organisation of training and further training, assists in the uniform application of the law of territorial judicial services and other legal services directly linked to the judiciary, such as executive, judicial expert, mediators, liquidators, family bankrupts. The Central Family Bank Protection Service is responsible for its bankruptcy protection tasks. As a body responsible for the regulation and professional management of the victim protection area, the IM ensures the establishment and operation of the national network of victim support centres. It also provides for the functioning, maintenance and development of the integrated legislative system and the operation of the National Legislative and related legal supervision. It also carries out the tasks of the economic organization of the Mádl Ferenc Comparative Law Institute and carries out the tasks of human and legal services in support of the operation of the Institute. To accomplish all these tasks, the IM's administrative budget proposal includes HUF 8.9 billion in expenditure appropriations, financed by HUF 380 million in revenue and HUF 8.6 billion in funding. The average number of statistical staff is 576. 2. Ferenc Mádl Institute of Comparative Law. The core task of the Institute, which was founded on 1 June 2019, is to improve the quality of domestic legislation, to increase its international legitimacy and recognition, to carry out international comparative legal research and analyses supporting domestic legislative activities, to examine the application of legislation with scientific needs, and to facilitate international comparative legal relations and cooperation. To the Mádl Ferenc Comparative Law Institute, the budget proposal contains HUF 691 million in expenditure appropriations, financed by HUF 691 million. Average number of statistical staff: 41. Management of the Permanent Representation of Hungary to the European Union. LXXIII of 2016 on foreign representations and permanent external service Law 38. The Permanent Representation of Hungary to the European Union operates as an organisational unit of the Ministry of Coordination of European Union Affairs, which has legal personality. The EU is involved in the decision-making activities of the European Union, representing approved negotiating positions and contributing to the development and enforcement of negotiating positions. [[14.40]] In order to carry out this function, the EU has a continuous and permanent professional relationship with government bodies. The administrative budget proposal of the Permanent Representation of Hungary to the European Union includes a budget of HUF 6 billion, financed by HUF 6 billion, with an average statistical staff of 119 people. A brief description should be given of the allocation of appropriations under chapter management. In this respect, the budget proposal contains HUF 580 million in expenditure on support for IM professional programmes and other obligations, financed by HUF 588 million. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Ladies and Gentlemen, Christian Democrats support the adoption of the draft budget law. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-19-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We were once again like last summer at the other parliamentary debate, in which our fellow Member Tamás Deutsch joined, that he threw the party with his production. Another Ford Fairlane quote came to my mind about his comment, but now another, it's kind of like a little fun, but it's more painful. I want you to watch the rest of it in the movie. The only thing that really occurred to me about his style, what he had to say, what he had to say, the content, was that I was curious about what he had to eat here before the speech, or I don't know what, because I'm sure I'd want him to be something very serious. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Fool.]]
u2021-05-19-52	Congressman, let's give each other some respect. Excuse me.
u2021-05-19-53	I say it with great respect. No, I know, I... [[Intercoms.]]
u2021-05-19-54	Thank you.
u2021-05-19-55	Okay. Well, when he comes back, I'll ask him. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Péter Cseresnyés: You are impertinent!]] Ladies and gentlemen, What he said in substance, however, there is nothing funny about it. After all, it is true that the Member will be talking about the budget for next year, and I will also be talking about this year's amendment in his speech, predicting the opposition, otherwise I think he dealt with 99 percent of his unjust abuse, but he also made some statements that I think are worth fixing. For example, at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, the opposition could not be expected to do anything, and it was virtually an obstacle to defence. Let us now go without a word, if you have not followed the events here so much as how many and how many proposals the opposition has made, of which the government is, by the way, reluctant, even if not admitted, but accepted. But it is hard for us to go without saying, my fellow Members, that there was a point after which we have not only criticized it, but also attacked it, not just the defence, but the government, the decisions or not of which, although I see that they want to get rid of this fact every time, but in Hungary, we have lost most of our countrymen in the epidemic in proportion to the population in the world. Indeed, when it comes to numbers, it is an objective, intolerable and otherwise unacceptable number. And yes, we made alternative proposals, criticized, or specifically attacked even one of the Prime Minister's crazy comments or decisions because we wanted to avoid this, such as mass testing, such as contact research, which, to date, the Hungarian state is not prepared for either. And what is the difference, fellow Members? Take a look at the lab. Take a look at Austria's numbers. See how many of your compatriots were able to save their lives from last fall to spring with these devices and this vaccine, as you know, had nothing to do with the explosion of the third wave. Decisions should have been taken in good time and these measures should have been put in place. And yes, we attacked and criticized the government, because, by the way, we believe that from an economic point of view, it is a complete failure and a face toaster. Not only in the world or in Western Europe, but also in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, this government has given its own people, the people in distress, the least support for wages. They won't believe it, except for the renovation projects of Lőrinc Mészáros. He's about 17 billion, so with Uncle Lawrence here, feel free to build a nice new hotel, that's the most important thing during the epidemic. But the fact that the workers, let's say, here in Budapest and in the high-profile tourist parts of the country, where crowds had to be put on the streets, to provide meaningful help there, so that people would not be unemployed or lower their wages, in this respect virtually zero compared to the region they did or gave. But in the meantime, the money went to the Chinese railway of Budapest-Belgrád in the order of a thousand billion. He went to the hunting fair, we're at 70 billion now. And now let's leave the political aberration of this whole thing to how to spend a penny on hunting exhibitions and communication in the middle of a crisis, let's look at the amount once again: 70 billion. Do you know what that amount is? Last week, Gergely Gulyás announced in the government info, with the total wage support that you gave to Hungarian workers during the crisis. As much as they've spent on this goddamn world show, and thank God, it hasn't even happened yet. I would have been very happy to ask Tamás Deutsch if he was so pleased that as a MEP, he did not have a word to say that the Hungarian government had not asked for the free money provided by the European Union, which could otherwise be used for 80 percent wage support. He didn't ask for it. He was, he could have brought it, he should have submitted an application, a paper, so please help me, give me this money, so that I can give it to the Hungarian employee signed. The Hungarian government said that he didn't want this money. Yes, he wouldn't have had it if we had taken members of the government and their narrow surroundings, but he could have gotten hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers. They just didn't ask for this money. In conclusion, what I also wanted to say to you here about the management of the epidemic and the relationship between the budget is the end result. It's not just economic, it's financial. And the reaction to this should be included in this budget somewhere, but to be honest, we don't see it in it, and I'll also explain what instruments should be more focused on. A clear survey revealed that a quarter of the people live significantly worse, with less income than before the crisis: 2.5 million of our countrymen. Obviously, this could mean losing his job, reducing his income, or simply implying that he was in some way, even through a family tragedy, a financial disadvantage. But speaking of budgets, speaking of facts, the emergency has now been extended until September. It was really possible to feel from our fellow Member Deutsch's speech that everything was fine here, everything was great, only the opposition, which, if it weren't, would be quite good for this country. [[14.50]] But you do realize that, for example, in the area of law enforcement, police officers would not be surprised if this emergency extension were halfway through their crowds waiting for it to end, because you now have a legal ban to get out of the force, and you would leave the force in bulk, because it is an unbearable job situation that this government provides for them, together with Covid, but without Covid, as well as without the extra tasks; that doctors and nurses were forced to blackmail during a Covid virus epidemic into a new relationship, where, unfortunately, they had to decide whether or not to live in their profession and in this respect for their love, or to finish this career, and that we lost 5,000 professionals in the middle of the epidemic from a doctor, nurse; that, unfortunately, they had any kind of a heroic struggle in the hospitals, or in the third wave, we lost 80-90 percent of the career, and that we still lost five thousand professionals in the middle of the epidemic; that we could not remember, at least, the same time, the same time, that we did not remember, the same time, that we did not remember, that we had the same thing, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, or that we had, that we had, that we had, or that we had, that we had, or that we had, or that we had, that we had, or that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, or that we had, or that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, in the same, that we had, in the same time, that we had, that we had, in the same time, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, in the same thing, that we had, in the same thing, in the same time, that we had, that we had, or that we had been in the same in the same in the same time, in the same time, that we had in the same in the same in the same in the same time we had in the same time And thousands of companies went bankrupt, and there was even the number of self-destruction, and hundreds of thousands of people were down, and even two and a half million people's incomes were down, and as I was saying, the moji-duji went on, and I don't even know how many stadiums have been announced since last year, and they've been building for right and left, sports, and Chinese university for 500 billion, and Belgrade railway lines, and so on. So... Finally, in response to my fellow Member, Tamás Deutsch, and I really do not like him if he was not here, because it would have been good if he had responded, but I see that he has left the room for good. So, a lot of criticism is well received, especially from him, because he knows something very well, he has been a representative for 30 years, but let me say that I will not accept or accept moral instruction from any member of the current Fidesz-EP fraction. As far as Mr Banai is concerned and one of his reactions is concerned, I would also like to respond to this in terms of the budget. The Secretary of State said that the debt was due to the fact that we were not in the Chamber, but we can watch the debate through mediation, so compared to 2010, debt is not such a big problem, so if we look back, compared to the post-2010 crisis figures. Well, not compared to that, Mr. Secretary. But for a government that founded its policy, its credo, that it was a national death in 2010, that the economy was collapsing and everything... it was the same magnitude of public debt, feel free to look at me. The government debt is over 80 percent, so just understand that you can't blow it with the same mouth. Now, either it wasn't the end of the world then, or it is the end of the world now, so make up your mind, especially you, because you were among the authors both times. [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] I understand it's embarrassing, but these facts, speaking of numbers, are the facts. (Sándor Font intervenes.) And you guys in a year, it doesn't matter, it's in the same place, and the government debt is in the same place. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] even increased nominally, not nominally, or even proportionately, by the end of last year, it exceeded 2010 so you can decide what you are criticizing. [[Dr. János Harghitai intervenes. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Oh, that's the difference. That's the difference. That's the difference. That's the difference. That's the difference. But this nation, it's in the interests of the country, it's a fair, straightforward policy. But absolutely, I understand. [[Dr. János Harghitai intervenes.]] He also did not mention the Secretary of State or the election budget that it was not really an election budget, but he did not mention, Mr State Secretary, that in the amendment to this year's budget, which, if I remember correctly, was perhaps voted yesterday by Parliament, an unharming 1700 billion small saved money was just put aside by the government, which is not bound by Parliament's nose, nor even what it wants to spend it for. Well, it's an amount of money that you can't even comprehend, which you're going to spend this year on something; I'm guessing, scattered at one of the afternoon's government meetings, and published in the Gazette, we'll see who you're going to get to again. Well, if this isn't an election budget, I don't know what it is, my honourable fellow Member. And one last one for the minimum wage. He said, if I remember correctly, that there was a five-percent improvement in the minimum wage. Well, that's a pretty serious situation compared to the fact that in 2010, you guys had the first job of reducing your net immediately by 16 percent to a minimum wage of 1.5 million. Well, the first thing they did was tax the minimum wage. You guys talk about the government of tax cuts? [[Peter Benő Banai:]] Don't wag your head, Mr. Secretary. There was no minimum wage tax, then they came and became, and immediately more than a million people were taken from their wages, 15-16 percent, then 16 percent. And what we are proposing, and what we will do next year is that if we get into government or parliamentary majority thanks to people, that we will return this tax credit to people, and that at the minimum wage, it will mean an immediate net increase of HUF 25,000, i.e. an increase in their current wages by almost a quarter, and, up to a median wage, this will mean more money for everyone in Hungary, this is the one step that we have money for in this budget, and it will be spent on everything else. And the same is a very important goal in terms of pensions, the introduction of Swiss indexation and a fair increase in pensions, which also has money and funding in this budget, is spent on other things, some that have been financed for years, such as, say, public media, and some that will only be spent next year. Ladies and gentlemen, All in all, I can tell you that this budget for next year has not yet been or was not intended to be cemented into a two-thirds law, let's say, it would be more than funny, this is the advantage of this bill, this is the only advantage of this bill, because, after a possible and hopefully coming change of government, this budget for next year will have to be amended as a draft, and among those important social policy objectives, among other things, which I have said, and what my opposition fellow Members have to do to end the foam regime, and we can finally give it back to the Hungarian people, at least to those who are not one percent privileged. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2021-05-19-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Mr President. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Secretary of State, Lords! Ladies and gentlemen. We are living in a historic moment, as the current Parliament has decided for the last and fourth time in this term in budgetary power. This political fact alone encourages representatives to speak and debate on both sides of the horseshoe, depending on the political side and taste, and in addition to the dry data, it is of great importance that the approach dominates the jungle of numbers and paragraphs, because the draft budget, as my fellow Member Tamás Deutsch mentioned, reflects a kind of value choice, not a tabula rasa. For me, ladies and gentlemen, this is the twenty-eighth draft budget, which I have the opportunity to discuss in this House with my fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the change of regime, Hungary has experienced many difficulties and many problems and has experienced success, and these have always been framed by the budget adopted by Members of Parliament. However, as we know, man is planning, God is carrying out homoproni, Deus disponit, as the Latin says, but none of the years have been similar to this year for a very important reason, which many of my fellow Members have already said: because of the human epidemic, all people's lives and the economic foundations of living together in Hungary were at risk. As a result of the decisions and crisis management of the government, thank God, everyone in Hungary can slowly become protected against the Crown Virus, so we can return to normal life conditions within a reasonable time. [[15.00]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, the financial framework for this will be recovery, and, as the Minister said in his exposé, the budget for rebooting. The budget ahead of us in 2022 is therefore the government's main objective, as we have heard several times, is to address the economic challenges of the coronal virus epidemic in a targeted and effective way. Dear House, I would like to comment on the context of the draft budget on the table in this House in the European Union. First of all, I would like to point out that 2021 is not only the beginning of a new seven-year EU budget period, so it represents the first year of something, a seven-year cycle, but also the entry or activity of the EU's main instrument for disease management, the Instrument for Restoration and Resistance. The main amount of the new seven-year EU framework budget, as we have heard, is EUR 1100 billion and the Next Generation envelope is EUR 750 billion, so together we see that the use of an unprecedented huge-scale resource will be possible for EU Member States and for all 27 Member States. In the period 2021-27, Hungary can count on cohesion funds of EUR 22.5 billion and agricultural policy resources of EUR 11.9 billion on the one hand, and, on the other hand, from the Next Generation EU envelope, we are well aware that we will also be eligible for EUR 7.2 billion of non-refundable funds. This amount of more than EUR 40 billion is, if I count correctly, an average of 3.4 percent of GDP per year in the coming years. It's a huge amount! (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The funding of national development priorities is available to the government from various sources. It is therefore clear from both the recently submitted convergence programme and the submitted recovery and resilience plan that the government is entitled to development resources from the central budget and then from the seven-year EU budgets and from the Recovery Instrument. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has already been said, it is worth examining briefly the seven-year budget, in which cohesion and agricultural policy subsidies are the largest item, we know very well. The special feature of 2022 is that from the 2014-20 cycle and the 2021-27 cycle ahead, our country will be eligible for funding, and this will amount to HUF 2363 billion in total. The funds in these budgets can be linked to so-called non-budget agricultural subsidies, direct producer subsidies worth some HUF 489 billion. The planning of the post-2020 operational programmes, we know, is still underway, but I would like to point out now that according to the government's intentions and compared to the 2014-20 cycle, the share of the operational programme for territorial and urban development is increasing significantly, which, in my view, also means strengthening municipal aspects. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is an important tool for the Hungarian budget in the near future. We also need to mention the Hungarian recovery and resilience plan, which was accompanied by an extremely lively debate at the European Affairs Committee meeting last Monday. I would also like to thank Mr Szabolcs Ágostházy, Minister of State, for his excellent presentation. Well, the resources of this EU instrument should therefore be used by 31 August 2026 in nine programme areas, which we hope will amount to HUF 2512 billion of non-refundable funding. Hungary, therefore, as a beneficiary, will use one third of the budget of the plan, as we have heard from the expozee, with the aim of improving health and nearly one third of sustainable green transport, so that, like the majority of the other Member States, it does not yet require a part of the facility for restoration and resilience. We should be aware that the Member States' plans submitted so far have not always used the full or partial use of the credit line, who have done so, typically because of the difficult financing situation in their country, such as Italy, Spain, Portugal or Greece. I note that a decision on the admission of the loan may be made in the future, so it is not yet closed. Therefore, Member States may conclude the contract on the inclusion of the part of the loan up to 2023. However, due to the economic power of our country, we should not listen to the siren voices that demand borrowing, because the Hungarian people know the burden of learning this from a significant external debt. This is how the left broke the country in 2009-10. Let us believe in the work of the Hungarian people and make them interested in sustainable development, because the most important thing is the change of perspective in this case as well. As Thomas Jefferson said, never spend the money you don't already own. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of this plan before us is, in particular, to counterbalance the economic and social impact of the coronal virus epidemic and to increase the resilience or sustainability of the economy and its preparations for the challenges and opportunities of the green and digital transition. With this, the government clearly aims to make Hungary one of the five most livable EU Member States by 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Hungarian plan gives us every opportunity to do so, because not only did the government negotiate with the European Commission, we know that for months, but in the course of the social reconciliation process there are about 500 organisations, including municipal associations, settlements, economic, social and social interest organisations. Dear House, The EU budget has a specific feature, however, that it should not contain a deficit. For this reason, Member States have to make annual payments, so the bill expects some HUF 565 billion of Hungarian deposits in the EU budget. But it is important to note that this amount is partly due to the financing of the EU recovery package. Fortunately, my fellow Members, there are also so-called flexible elements of the EU's disease management. The temporary relaxation of the existing rules is also of paramount importance in terms of state aid and fiscal discipline. At the same time, the government expects a declining public deficit and government debt compared to 2020 in order to return to the government deficit below 3 per cent in a few years, which is called the Maastricht criteria. In achieving this, we will also need the legislative proposal to anticipate a 5.2 percent economic growth. According to international forecasts, this is a well-founded number, and so indeed, my fellow Members, we have a re-launch budget ahead of us. Dear House, Some politicians say that the debate on policies between the walls of this House is worthless if we Members cannot make it easy for voters to understand. Well, that's exactly what constituencies work is all about 24 hours a day. [[15.10]] And I am often asked at home: will the life of Zemplén and Abaúj's citizens become easier, better by means of a rebooting budget, or how can the support from the EU budget appear, or the resources of the recovery fund from the Mountains of Bodrogkull and Mountains to Hernád's rescue? I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that these questions can be answered easily. The electricity of the Tátaljaújhely railway was the forerunner of the green transport development for sustainability from IKOP and the strengthening of the rural population with infrastructure developments with investments in tourism and heritage protection. This, I believe, must continue in many parts of the country, as happened and happening in Abaúj and Zemplén, as the government's intentions point in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft before us is therefore looking for a number of challenges, but we can be sure of one thing: it is a clear choice of value by creating the possibility of progress, while taking into account the risks that we are currently experiencing in our everyday lives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-19-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mrs Bősz Anett. Here you go, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members.
u2021-05-19-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I must reject what was said in the Minister's exposé that the opposition did not participate in disease management. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that, since October 13, 2019, nearly three million of our fellow citizens have lived in a settlement led by the opposition mayor, and they have also been excellent in handling the epidemic, taking their share of what the government has called common burden, tightening their belts, whatever their withdrawal may have hit them. I would like to discuss this further in my speech. Minister Mihály Varga said that our country has not wasted the last decade. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to quote, as liberal, György Surányi, former central bank president, close to me in terms of theory and economic theory, who, before the crisis, said that the excellent international economic environment would have revealed to our country higher economic growth and wider opportunities if we had used them properly, so that in this sense, a quote follows:. If we relate to Germany or Austria, there is no way to show any catch-up in this decade. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There is no debate between us, Mr Secretary of State, that the continuation of countercyclical economic policy is to be welcomed. And in the budgetary debates over the past years, I have always told you that I am primarily in a distribution debate with the Ministry of Finance, in addition to the fact that two thirds are extremely comfortable between a damaged rule of law and a damaged democratic institutional system, which I also condemn as a Democrat, and I hope that next year's elections will bring about a turn in which we will also be able to restore this. In the Minister's exposé, he said that the budget for 2022 does not differ from what has been adopted by the majority of governments since 2010. I consider not only institutional and equal rights injuries, but also social destruction in the way in which the government distributes the common money of taxpayers and thus of all citizens of our country. Mihály Varga also praised the repeated adoption of the law in the spring, but we do not show that the government has not learned from its error rather than that we have not yet had the closing act of 2020 and that the budget law of 2022 was submitted when we ourselves sat in the Committee on Budgets and discussed the amendment of the budget law of 2021. I must say once again, Mr Secretary, that many governments in the world are in need of correction, but the opposition pointed out last spring that if we do not wait for the autumn session to plan the budget, the external external external shocks will surprise us and we will be forced to redesign, which is, by the way, an unparalleled scale, which we have discussed with you in the last few weeks. I'm not going to go into the details of that right now. I therefore think it is a misguided step to start planning the 2022 budget again in May and to debate this law, since there is no guarantee that we will not need to be corrected again as a result of the pandemic, and that we will not be in the same situation here in the spring session as we were now in a few weeks ago with the 2021 budget. They did not wish to talk to us in a professional or political sense, either at the meetings of the two-thirds representatives of the Committee on Budgets or here in the plenary Chamber, and if it had been good for the government and the opposition to cooperate in the disease management, it was at these times. Many oppositions and governments in the free world have done so. I am extremely sorry that you, our honourable members of the Government, did not want to share with us the responsibility of this economic and social crisis. The opposition asked you a year ago not to make these mistakes. I think that committing them again now is unparalleled irresponsible. It would have been good if we had been able to adapt the budget for 2021 to the real macro numbers. I am the same way when planning the 2022 budget. I think that if at least we could have agreed on the methodology for establishing the number of unemployed people, and that we should really rely on real data, you might not have been surprised by this spring, and we should not have been forced to make such a correction. It would therefore have been good for you to accept the decision of the common good in debates as a principle. I am very sorry that the pro-government members of the Committee on Budgets, led by Vice-President Lajos Szűcs, were not ready for this. What I can tell you about the draft budget 2022 is that it is a bill of social divides, of the lucky and forgotten. The bill, which lies before us, focuses primarily on those who you, my honourable members of the Government, want to rely heavily on to support. I'm not just talking about votes, economic growth, labour market development, population processes. And yes, in view of these votes, there is also an extremely nasty story here that they can rely not only on the lucky ones, but also on the forgotten ones, in a completely different way, not that they find themselves on the lucky side of the budget, specifically indemnified: public workers, public workers or even people on welfare who fear the little and to whom the current Fidesz mayor informs that if they don't draw the x on Fidesz, they won't have to come to work next week. So, unfortunately, these are the people, the lucky and the wounded, who live together in our common country. It would have been nice to try to close the social divides between them not only in a theoretical but also in a practical way. I think that this has been visible over the last 11 years, a family policy supporting the middle class and the upper middle class, a continuous expression of a labour market that is in many ways excluded. I am certainly not in the debate with you, Mr Secretary of State, that in order to get out of the crisis, you will have to rely primarily on the labour market and on the jobs that have been restored. However, the fact that our fellow government and opposition representatives have already mentioned education and the funding of the education system here on several occasions is indescribable, not to mention the extent to which we are lagging behind compared to our fellow Western Europeans, but we are now showing a significant lack of knowledge, the structure of our labour market and the structure of our national economy as well as our regional counterparts. We are slowly falling behind against the V4s, and now we find ourselves in a country where three million people live below the minimum of living, who pass the misery on to their children. Minister, he said that the funding framework for the education system is expanding, but this is a contraction in terms of GDP. You can answer this very well, Mr Secretary of State, by saying that there was such a thing as a greater expansion of GDP than the expansion of these figures, and this should be welcomed. [[15.20]] But I must tell you that I also call this budget of the chasms because, in the absence of structural and mental transformation, we will always find ourselves there, that those three million people will recreate poverty, and the lucky three million will always find themselves with much less investment in work on the fortunate side of the market economy and the education system. All we need to think about is how the wealthy middle class rescued their own children from the state education system into the otherwise much more funded church education system and church schools. We are now finding a situation where, in fact, we cannot talk about segregation in certain areas that are falling apart because non-Roma children would no longer be a class in these break-down areas in public educational institutions. This also confirms that we have become a society of chasms. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, perhaps, to speak to you in a slightly different way from the budgetary debates, about how you could have followed a completely different path in an ideal historical sense. The first Hungarian government to emerge from your political community after the change of regime did set a social market economy as a goal. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because, by the way, soziale in Marktwirtschaft means something different from social in German or social in Hungarian. It means that the economy has been socialised, the economy has been adapted to man, not vice versa, the basics of economic theory have been put on a moral basis, they have looked at how they can build a humane society, and they have been aware that social policy is not needed, but social policy. And what's the difference between the two? It is my fellow Members that social policy wants to help those who have broken down. However, the successful social policy of current governments can be grasped by the fact that we are not letting anyone break down. From this budget, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear, however, that you have not only allowed millions to fall, but have also let go of your hands in the crisis. What do I mean? Secretary of State, I do not argue with you either that economic growth and its maintenance require a high investment rate, but I have to say that the layer of government colleagues called the national capitalist layer received hundreds of billions of dollars from the economic protection action plan at a time when, by the way, the SME sector was waiting for the State's help at this time last year. We find small companies that employ only a few, and if there is no framework left to maintain their own business, you can imagine what happened to their employees. Mr. Secretary. These large companies would have survived, say, a summer with, where appropriate, letting go of their entire income or a significant part of it, the SME sector in a very different way. I think that the government and opposition are watching a completely different film when the budget debate begins, because you are looking at the lucky ones, and we would like to show you the whole picture, and say that there are millions of people waiting to finally come out of the vicious circle of poverty, in which, by the way, the educational system, the health system, the exclusion of the labour market, the inequality of rights, are all recreating the misery of these countrymen. I must say, by listening to the tax waivers in the framework of the victory reports, or to the 13th month pension, Mr. Secretary of State, I think that this budget has now thrown glitter into the eyes of pensioners and young workers, but basically, that you call those weekly retirements, for example, a 13th month pension, does not mean that this April inflation has not eaten all this year's pension increase. I am afraid that the fears that my fellow opposition Members have already spoken about in terms of inflation can, unfortunately, be confirmed, and in this case, this budget will have to be redesigned; I do not know what they will say to pensioners then. I have already argued that it would have been good to create a social market economy, my fellow members of the Government. I must say that, on the basis of what I have said, you have created an anti-social market economy, just as much an anti-social market economy as the government itself has. When I look at those completely failing regions or those who otherwise suffer a number of legal disadvantages, their dignity is violated every day, I am talking about these gaps. When I talk about the distinction between pro-government and opposition self-governments, I describe a very real situation. When automatic hypo-compensation was achieved in settlements of less than 25,000 people, cities with Fidesz-led county rights had this HUF 1.4 billion supplement, and then that the oppositions were not left out of it. That is why I say that this budget belongs to the privileged and to the disadvantaged. That is why I have tabled a budget amendment that would otherwise fit in the budget of the Nyíregyháza Stadium and concerns four municipalities in Pest county. On the one hand, the unparalleled funds were taken from Érd: the annual payment of HUF 700 million until 2019 was cancelled, so the town of Érd, with county rights, turned to it by minus HUF 1.4 billion for this year, and this is what took away the car tax and halving the hip. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, from 2.5 billion forints a miracle could be done in Érden, that is what is needed. To this day, half of the people in the walnuts are on dirt roads. It's 2021! The city hall welcomes you 15 kilometers from the capital, where computers shut down the power grid, otherwise, because it has been completely outdated for decades. Just 1.8 billion forints would be needed for Diósd to avoid the danger of life for the city hall workers, or to prevent the citizens from running on dirt roads coughing and coughing. We could also talk about the Tarnok, who travel on a dirt road between Érd and Tárnok, where only HUF 800 million could make a full investment in infrastructure where there could be sewerage, other infrastructure and solid road cover. Why is this important? Because heavy vehicles are crossing the 60 km per hour speed limit, and as a result, the Tarnokians are particularly at risk of life not only on Szőlhegyi út, but also on the way up from the intersection of Sóskút and Szőlőhegyi út, everyone who leaves on foot without a sidewalk and a bicycle ride home. We could talk more about the noise barrier of the Turkish people, which hasn't been ready for years. Ladies and gentlemen, These, which I have just flashed in front of you, are an example that some hundreds of millions of forints would welcome some larger settlements, while, by the way, you are the ranking of the billions of government colleagues who have sent to their tiny settlements. It would be very good if this gap between Hungary and Hungary finally ended, and that our small ferry country could end up in the West. That's why we're working with the entire opposition. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-19-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Mihály Witzmann of the Fidesz Group is next to speak. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Another year has passed, and we can all be part of a well-established debate here in previous years, namely the budgetary debate. During the spring session in Parliament, we have the opportunity and opportunity to discuss, discuss and agree on next year's options, next year's budget support, the framework of them. This fact, in my view, will certainly increase predictability and predictability for families, businesses, municipalities and public offices. [[15.30]] In view of this, the adoption of the budget in mid-June will be more than half a year for the Hungarian people, economic operators, municipalities and the public administration to prepare themselves for measures to support and target the re-launching of the economy. As in recent years, the government has presented a responsible, well-founded budget which aims to put a significant proportion of resources in the service of economic recovery. Undoubtedly, the corona virus pandemic has created extremely serious challenges and difficulties for all countries in the world, including Hungary. However, thanks to the consistent economic policy of recent years, the Crown Virus epidemic has found a resilient and balanced economy in Hungary last spring, March, which means Hungary faced the challenges with strong fundamentals and sound public finances. Can we therefore trust that the new situation will also create a new chance for Hungary to become one of the winning countries of the new world economic era after the epidemic? In this way, we will launch the economic re-launch action plan, the largest economic programme in the history of modern Hungary, which is also about starting life again, in addition to restarting the economy. Under the economic re-launch action plan, a total of HUF 7308 billion will be available in 2022, which, by the way, amounts to approximately 13 percent of next year's GDP. The action plan not only creates jobs for the Hungarian people, but also makes Hungary an outstanding growth path in European comparison. It can also be seen from the proposal before us that instead of the restrictions and tax increases common to left-wing governments, new tax cuts can be expected next year. From 1 July 2022, the rate of tax on labour will be reduced by another 2 percentage points and young people under the age of 25 will be exempt from the payment of personal income tax from 1 January. Thanks to these two measures, it remains more than HUF 250 billion more than families and entrepreneurs, helping the economy recover as soon as possible. In addition to the existing family protection measures, support for families with children and children will be further expanded. As part of the home creation programme, we will also help families moving into a new home with VAT and tax exemption in 2022, which will save them some 170 billion HUF next year. The retirement of the 13th month pension will continue in 2022, as several speakers have already mentioned, and all our elderly countrymen can also count on the possibility of a pension premium. As a result of the historical health wage increase started, medical salaries increase an average of two and a half times in two years, and the appreciation of health professionals indicates that by 2022 a nurse will earn an average of two and a half times as much as he made before 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The success or failure of a country's management or budget can be measured in many ways. In Parliament's debates on the budget, we mostly represent this with macroeconomic indicators, the situation of families, children, pensioners, wage increases, tax cuts or various developments in the country. If you will allow me, in my speech, I would like to highlight a few points about the economic, tourism and infrastructure development of an area, the Somogy 4th constituency I represent, and the Balaton region so close to my heart, and, at the same time, to thank the Government of Hungary, through the secretary of state and the secretary of state, for the record grants granted to Balaton in recent years. It is important to talk about this, because it is clear that the left is trying to drill, prevent, or make all kinds of decisions about Lake Balaton on a daily basis. Of course, I understand that the left does not like the developments, because from the period during which they were governed, the first thing he could afford was the sale of tourist companies, properties, beaches and tourist interests in Balaton, and the promises of unfulfilled development, plus a state close to bankruptcy, so let's add that the change of government left this to us after the left-wing governments in 2010. However, after the change in government in 2010, the economy was strengthened and the Balaton region received increasing support from the central budget. Investment has increased, more guests have become, and tourism has started to grow again. Over the past few years, economic, tourism and infrastructure developments have been made in the Balaton and its region, which we have never dreamed of before. It would be difficult to list, of course, but without the need for completeness, I would like to give you some examples. The new South Balaton railway, the R67 road connecting the Somogy county seat and Lake Balaton was completed, the 710 main road away from Lake Balaton from the eastern direction was built, the construction of the M76 road on the western side of Lake Balaton is still ongoing, and the first section has already been completed, and the construction of the parts of the Balaton bike circle is also taking place at a high pace. At the same time, unprecedented modernisations have also taken place on the beaches of the Balaton settlements, and while we are talking about the budget for beaches, in most cases, almost a hundred percent of developments financed from domestic sources, it is worth stopping a bit and responding to the left-wing lies about taking away the free beaches in Balaton, because the truth is as follows. Currently 110 beaches are located around Lake Balaton for 40 km long. The length of the free beaches is 25 km, compared to the 15 km of the paid beaches. The situation is even better in the eight Balaton settlements of the Somogy 4th constituency, which I represent: 22 free beaches are about 9,5 kilometers long, and the paid beaches are only 2.5 kilometers away. So much for taking free beaches, which we hear from the left on a regular basis. But perhaps even more nuanced by the fact that precisely thanks to the decisions of the civilian government, several settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton have had access to public waterfront areas in recent years and free of charge. Only in the constituency I represent the most recent example of this is Siófok, where the part of the Balatonszéplak part of the city has been closed for decades from state treatment to the use of the otherwise non-governmental Siófok municipality. So much for the fact that there is a difference between pro-government and non-government-led municipalities in terms of the assessment of such aid. Balatoni Hajózási Zrt. is also an extremely important development issue for us at Lake Balaton. The renewal of its fleet, within which the purchase of four new vessels may also take place from domestic support and budgetary resources next year. This was an old demand, I think, not only for the Balatonians, but also for our visiting guests and tourists. Perhaps nationwide, many do not even know that there is a complete reconstruction of the Sió channel airlock system and the rehabilitation of the sewer section. Given the physical condition of the old airlock system, it is quite safe to say that this investment can finally take place in the moments after the last, but thanks to the support of the current government. I would also like to point out here that, in order to strengthen tourism, many tourist attractions, accommodation and catering facilities, awarded by the Balaton municipalities and businesses, have been opened up in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, With my speech, without the need for completeness, I have endeavoured to point out that if we try to compare the country's economic achievements and budgetary performance in the light of developments in Balaton before 2010, it is clear and clear that Lake Balaton has been able to grow on a much larger scale in recent years than we have seen in the time of left-wing governments. I could say that the government has not yet intended as much resources as the current one for the development of Lake Balaton. That is why I would like the disciplined fiscal policy and the strengthening of the economy experienced in recent years to continue and Hungary to be among the winning countries of the new world economic era after the epidemic. I believe that the bill before us, the budgetary law, is in any way appropriate and provides the right answers to this in order to serve these objectives in an appropriate and effective manner. I therefore ask with respect that my fellow Members support this bill with their votes after the debate has taken place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-19-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Group of the LMP will address Mrs Hohn Krisztina. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-19-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, It is not as easy to speak here in the debate on the budget as we would think, as the opposition has prepared a lot of amendments again this year, which it will submit, and the LMP Group will also present a large amount of amendments. [[15.40]] We are doing this because we are in this house and we are performing this service in order to express our opinion, and we are even criticising the budget, which I know is not so much loved by my fellow members of the government, but that is just how it is done in this democratic country. First of all, I must react a little to our fellow Member, Tamás Deutsch, who is not here, and for the first time I have been in the same airspace with him and I have heard his speech. Sometimes I didn't really know what kind of broadcast I was seeing now, but I did find it very difficult to get to the point, and from what I could think of a Hungarian proverb, I often quote proverbs between the walls of Parliament, that in other people's eyes the splinter, and in his own eyes the beam, or that who lives as he sees it. You have, of course, been using different adjectives to describe the opposition, and you have said and assumed all sorts of things, most of which must be rejected. But let's get down to one of the most important areas, which is very dear to my heart, this is the local government that I have to say a few words about. Like every year, I try to make thought-provoking proposals again and again this year. Last year, too, I drew your attention to the fact that there has been no civil servant wage increase in the local government sector for a very long time. We stress this so much because the basic salary of civil servants has not been increased for at least eight years, but perhaps ten years. At this time, we are very often told that the municipalities have the opportunity to hijack these wages. There's just no answer to what it's made of. How can they do that, because when you think about it, all the car taxes are now going into the state register. This used to increase the revenues of the municipalities, then we could count only 40 percent at first, and now it's zero forints that can be built in. Thus, a civil servant's wage increase cannot be made from this either. But there are consequences. The consequence is that a large number of municipalities have labour shortages. This not only characterizes this sector, but is also characteristic of other sectors, since their wages are far from those of government officials, for example. So they are often seduced to work in government windows or district offices, where the salary is much higher, up to 50-60 percent. The municipalities cannot give this to their employees, but they cannot run the offices without them. This is a huge problem I think we need to consider urgently. I told you this last year, let's say the thought hasn't worked out so far. Moreover, it is not just the car tax that will be missing from the local government budget, but they have now had to expect a lack, as because of the pandemic, various rents and parking fees have not been paid in the cash register of a given local government or in the case of leaving business tax to entrepreneurs, let us put it this way; this, in fact, has not been the case for the municipalities to experience that this is not going to happen. They took it from them, you might say, but they left it with the contractors. This was partly compensated, in the smaller settlements in full. There are 25,000 people who have drawn this line, so the others, which are cities of over 25,000 people, had to attend various negotiations, in which they were judged to receive compensation or not. Unfortunately, there are cities that are big losers of this non-compensation because many have failed to get it. I could aim for Budapest, but I could watch Gödöllő. And unfortunately, it seems that these cities have been punished at some level, because they could not have received it, but they promised some kind of development money, which will be spent on investments that are considered important by some government. But that doesn't even make this money in the register, so they can't even base it on it. However, the question arises that there are settlements that receive a much higher amount, up to HUF 3 billion. One doesn't want to think about, let's say, what kind of leadership a given city has, so it's called a pro-government, thought, or even openly, or has opposition city leadership. I think that if this is because the campaign is about to start, and I would like to prove that opposition candidates are not fit to run the city, and so I would like to suggest that they will not be able to lead the country, then they will be on the wrong path, because that is not the case at all. Local governments are able to tighten the belt more and more, the problem is that while we are talking about 3.5 percent inflation, this is much more than the local government, as this could be up to 10 percent, as construction prices have increased to such an extent that there will be no money to paint the kindergarten or nursery, and the municipalities and residents will be able to feel this to a significant extent. It is also very important to mention in this respect that there has been an increase of around 1 percent in real estate expenditure, which by far do not replace losses, since the funds issued for the protection of the Crown Virus have not returned to these municipalities either. I must say here that the municipal housing stock is also a victim of this, because if it is actually sold out, then the municipal property, the settlements' assets will fall significantly, which would again be a huge mistake. With regard to education, we see an increase in the average wage-based support for teachers' educators directly. But let's hope this isn't just because the minimum wage is rising, and that's why it's planned. I think it's good in the budget to say something positive about the increase in wages for office employees. For example, the Education Office's personal benefits increase significantly. However, there are some things that are not good or that are not good in the budget, and I would therefore like to draw attention to them in this area as well. For example, we think that money should be spent on wage increases, so that there will never be an end to the shortage of teachers. We are once again in an area where we have a considerable shortage of workers to deal with. This is that it is difficult for educational institutions to find educators, since the pay table does not reflect much their appreciation and therefore does not consider this profession to be good. And young people, too, will not necessarily be employed as educators. Average teacher salary is only 68 percent of the average salary of full-time higher education graduates. This is very, very important, because it is in the interests of all of us to educate and educate teachers who receive a wage that allows them to have a normal life and to take appropriate professional training and to feel that they are very important members of society. The government is talking about an unprecedented wage increase. In fact, between 2013 and 2017, there was a 40-50-percent wage increase, but this has already lost its purchasing power to a significant extent, if you think about the scale of price increases that simply ran away from food prices to mention just one example. We believe that serious money should be spent on wage management for educational workers and other educational workers. Covid has pointed out that there is a lack of professionals from these educational levels. It is very important to have a secure net that protects children. Maintaining this signalling system is extremely important. We have also seen that during school closures, unfortunately, there has been an increase in domestic violence. That's why we're saying we need more money here. How many children have we lost in the digital working order? Of course, I only understand that figuratively, so how many people couldn't connect to this digital format. I know such things, and I know them personally, who had no means; there may be a certain educational institution, but for some reason the children did not receive it, and therefore their education was difficult. Let's just say I'd rather call it paper distance education than digital education. [[15.50]] I wonder if there's more money for kids who go digitally. What is very important is that the head of the KLIK has also said that about 10 percent of the children have fallen out of the system, which is an alarming number. In addition, I would like to say a few words about the social sphere, which I think will always get a little attention, although I think that we oppositionists talk a lot about it, but this, let us say, is not reflected in the budget or any other legislative provisions that the government is submitting. The social sphere, too, is in desperate need of wage management. Consider that those who work in the social sector, for example, by bed, so let's say, in the elderly's home, do the same care activities as those who do the same in health care, yet their wages are lower than those of health care workers, and, unfortunately, to this day, they did not deserve to receive the one-time allowance of HUF 500,000 that the healthcare workers were lucky to receive. We would consider it important to increase the family allowance. There hasn't been an increase in family allowances in a very long time. The government's narrative is that it's because they put the benefits to work. We think that we should increase the family allowance by at least 50 percent, if possible as soon as possible. I also have to talk about the community service programme. I have already said many times that I was mayor, so I would consider it very important that there should be a normal increase in public wages, because we do not significantly help the public employees with 1-2 thousand forints or 3-4 thousand forints. I know the goal is to keep wages low to help or encourage them back into the labour market. However, this is currently hampered by the coronal virus epidemic. We also have to admit that some people have been stuck in public employment for many years, and I'm not sure they can get out of this alone and alone. The public wage is our view that it preserves poverty, and I am convinced of that, because I have seen public workers and their conditions from this wage. Even to starve to death, it's not enough for them to get. It is also very important that it seems that there will be even less public workers; I hope that they will be able to find employment in the labour market. If you think about it, the most affected counties are Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, where 18 thousand people are employed in Borsod County, and 8 thousand in Hajdú-Bihar County. I hope that in these counties there will be programmes to help public workers there to find their way back to the labour market and to have the strength, the opportunity and the skills to find work there. With regard to disability pensions, we have also said that all victims will receive a certain payment of HUF 500,000, and they will develop a point system for this review by including professional organisations in it. I would also like to say a few more thoughts about the support of GP practices. We recommend that GPs be given more support in terms of protection. We know they've raised the funding, we see it, we understand it, but we think it's still not right. In addition, it is only thought-provoking that the government might consider setting up an independent CDC, and it would be important to take much greater care to detect post-Covid symptoms and to treat these diseases. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-05-19-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mrs Maria Kállai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft budget presented by the Government was born in the spirit of a relaunch, as we have heard several times today. In order for all this to happen, we must reach back to the past a little bit, and if we run the past ten years, then we can see the very conscious country building work that led us to the strength of our economy when the epidemic found the country. As the Minister said, it has been a great result over the past ten years that financial policy has been flexible. And we also have to say that in the focus of recent years, if we take into account the budgetary focus of the various years, then security, maintaining economic growth, supporting families, it was employment itself, and in 2021, we remember, by keeping the epidemiological measures. Family, work, security, employment are basic pillars for all of us, such as a value-based budget. The 2022 budget, the pillars of the re-launch budget: reducing taxes itself, creating jobs, supporting families, encouraging investment. Several numbers have been said today, and I will only highlight a few. We can feel safe when 13 percent of GDP can be used to restart the economy in the event of acceptance. We need to see that HUF 2884 billion is available to health care. We also need to see that the amount of the Health Insurance Fund and the Anti-CDC Fund is convincing, and we trust that it will not be necessary to use them all, of course, but I think it shows responsible thinking, not to mention supporting families, which is practically 2778 billion. All this in a context where there is a source of valuable pensions, the restoration of the 13th month's pension, there is a source of sport, culture, all that is needed. Of course, it has already been said in this House several times in this House that this is a very different philosophy than the philosophy of governments before 2010, because it is not based on austerity, it is not on aid, it is not on withdrawal, it is about creating an opportunity and giving responsibility. Next, I would like to talk about two things, first about public education. We can say that public education has also been very strong in the epidemiological situation, since the people working in public education, families and children themselves have adapted to the situation, and education has continued. Let's see in the language of numbers what that means. Overall, we can say that in the last ten years, the public education budget has increased from HUF 1009 billion to HUF 1726 billion. We can see that this is about 70 percent increase. But if we compare only two years, we also need to see that despite the pandemic, there is still HUF 101,3 billion more resources available for the sector compared to this year. Of course, everything is connected with everything, and when we talk about public education, of course we can also think about the resources that appear in other places, in talent development, in disadvantage compensation, in culture, in sport, and thus together help children and families within the scope of public education to thrive. One sentence should be highlighted: textbook provision is free of charge from the 2020-21 academic year, free of charge in full spectrum. This is also a HUF 13 billion investment in the future every year. Dear Parliament, The previous solo also affected the teachers' wage increases. I think we cannot go without saying anything about public education, especially in a context where we remember that hundreds of billions of people were withdrawn from education or a type of wage increase that brought local governments into a debt of HUF 1300 billion. The budget of 22 also includes the coverage of increased pedagogue wages and their additions. We also need to remember that from July 2020 the government has decided to raise teachers' wages again. As a result, wages increased by 10 percent. Of course, we all know that with the strengthening of the economy, we must go on this path. But a small comparison: if, say, you look at a teacher with a university degree, 78 percent in ten years, and 112 percent in a 20-year-old employee. Despite the crisis, the year 2020 was also marked by the fact that, in addition to the introduction of professional allowances, in order to further increase the efficiency and quality of public education, the heads of institutions and their alternates received a management allowance corresponding to the number of institutions. Allow two highlights: an institution of over 400 people, who, say, has been on the teaching track for 35 years, is a teacher II. The salary increased from HUF 505 700 to HUF 688 170 with a university degree. [[16.00]] An institution manager with similar parameters in an institution of over a thousand people has raised a salary of HUF 629 300 to HUF 858 690 and it is also possible to join this on the basis of the work carried out. Obviously, this is the way to go, but I think that despite the epidemic, we can still see the government's intentions. Dear Parliament, Anyone who has ever been to his own constituency must acknowledge that there has been an unprecedented renovation of public education institutions in the country, there has never been such a volume of institution development in the language of the numbers worth HUF 350 billion at 940 locations. Some highlights from the national public education infrastructure development programme: 51 new school hotels, 88 new gymnasiums, 44 classrooms, 31 school and kindergarten development. When we talk about the countryside, we have heard from the Secretary of State how it continues. The development of a public education institution is currently worth HUF 50 billion. It is a pleasure that the source of the Hungarian village is also available, and in 168 settlements, developments are still taking place in the amount of HUF 5 billion, and this was a list without the need for completeness. We also need to see it, and sometimes it is like living in another country, that the storehouse of digital devices has evolved in an unprecedented way. There were almost 3,000 job supply sites with bandwidth expansions, and according to the OH survey, it is also necessary to say that in competence measurements this measurement was carried out that 90 percent of children have digital tools at home. I do not now list the sources of support for disadvantage compensation and building energy improvements that are also available. Overall, very briefly, in this area, we can say that public education institutions can look forward to the 2022 marketing year, and the school world can be completed during the reopening process, and communities can meet again. I trust that the summer and the next school year will be characterised by rich student programmes and community programmes. Dear Parliament, We are constantly hearing about the role and importance of innovation, and generally in development a developing country must be very serious about innovation. I quote Mihály Varga in the following words: "The economy of a nation must be driven forward by entrepreneurship and innovation, if this is not done, despite all support, it will fall behind in international competition. The 2020 EU Scoreboard evaluates Hungary as a moderate innovator. Our aim is to make significant progress in the decade ahead. This idea also has a major role to play in the 2022 budget, as it is linked to education, public education itself, higher education, research and development, industry 4.0 development programmes, economic recovery programmes, the transformation of vocational training, new investments, and I could list the elements of the medium that would need to become a real driving force for innovation, as renewal is the key to sustainable development. Overall, we can say that the Hungarian government has taken a number of steps in the past for scientific life. The focus is on R &amp; D &amp; I resources in a multifaceted way, for example, to help address the crisis caused by a coronal virus epidemic. It must be said that we must establish that targeted health sciences, health research, innovations, support for clinical trials, research and innovation are part of the resources allocated to support research and innovation. Of course, it is also very important that, in addition to accessing domestic funds, we are able to reach out even more successfully to the EU's directly available resources, such as the Horizon European Research Programme. On an annual basis, the Hungarian State will spend HUF 3 billion to help Hungarian researchers access international research infrastructure. It should also be said that since 2010, R &amp; D &amp; I expenditure has doubled, and in the entrepreneurial sector it has not doubled, but has increased, in total, by three times, and by analysing employment, we can see that there has been a modest but also increased number of research jobs and researchers. The National Research, Development and Innovation Office as a control is also involved in coordinating domestic R &amp; D innovation and using the Fund's source. During the period ahead, the innovation policy must meet three priority objectives: the practical exploitation of the research results of public research centres must be strengthened, the innovation performance of domestic businesses, especially SMEs, must be improved, and all actors involved in research and development and innovation development, as we hear from Minister Palkovic many times, must strengthen cooperation and reach 3 percent of GDP-related expenditure by 2030, as I said at the beginning, in order to be able to become innovators from moderate innovators. Allow me one more thought. In addition to the core part of the research and innovation base under the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund, a core part of the national laboratories will be established in 22. This is a major opportunity for focused development on the one hand, for a uniform, transparent way of recording the expectations of the laboratory's operation, for quantified results expectations, and for basic treatment on the other hand, the possibility to carry out fixed research that has been going on for years. One more thought: if you look at the available resources of the fund, you can see that the increase between 2015 and 22 is about 66 percent. There are many ways and many ways to approach innovation. We must say this in any way, and this seems to be clear in the budget, that progress is being made, that coherent measures are being taken, that coherent measures are being taken, that are being taken in value and target-driven, and that are increasing resources and inspiring challenges, which, I think, are also driving the development of innovation. Dear House, Overall, we can say that the draft before us shows predictability, security, responsibility and effectively serves the key objectives that we have also heard several times about: relaunching the economy, supporting families, supporting pensioners, exempting young people under the age of 25, creating jobs and encouraging investment. I think that our joint responsibility is to evaluate it in this place, and we have a shared responsibility to adopt it, because it serves the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-19-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Group of Dialogue is Mr Sándor Burány. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, If we look at the draft budget for next year and the social policy behind it, and we try to find out what is the biggest problem in the country, what is the first thing that should be addressed, well, I have to say, unfortunately, we can say that the biggest problem is the division of the country and even the serious split-up of the country. In Hungary there is a privileged layer, let's say the best living 1 percent. This 1 percent of the best living can afford things other mortals in Hungary can't even imagine and wonder when they read in the news. This 1 percent can afford to travel by private jet to its favourite destinations if you feel like it. This one-percent can afford to spend his freedom on a yacht if he's in a gentleman's mood. In fact, if you feel in a gentleman's mood, as the last testimony from the Borkai case revealed, then you can even travel to the yacht by private plane. This 1 percent can also afford the luxury of buying even from luxury estates with pairs, if it is justified by the placement of the family or the use of the roads, and does not want to, say, share with a neighbor on a service trip, or, in preparation for a recent marriage, think that it is easier to live a married life, if it is certain, that two properties are available to the couple. [[16.10]] This 1 percent can afford to make enough money to put a crane in your new home, so big and so heavy. For the record, this vault is still empty. How much it's gonna weigh when it's full of valuables! I can't even imagine. True, this 1 percent does not necessarily earn this money from the market. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Not at all.]] This 1 percent is able to tap state aid in abundance, and thanks to this state aid system, your support system, you can spend months to months. It is a well-known fact that Hungary's richest entrepreneur, Lőrinc Mészáros, recently received nearly HUF 3 billion in Eger only for the renovation of a single hotel, while the entire city of Eger was hoping for much more public compensation and support, received only HUF 825 million. The entire city of Eger was not worth as much to the government as Lőrinc Mészáros' only one hotel, one hotel. By the way, if we look at the support of all the hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros, this is more than HUF 17 billion, and that is why this 1 percent can live in such a cheeky way in this country. At the same time, if you look at the other side of the coin and see how millions live in this country, well, so that they can't even dream about it, they can't dream of much less. If you look at even the distribution of earnings in Hungary, you will find that while average earnings are good and rising year after year in official statistics, at the same time you will find that if you look to the bottom of these indicators, you will find that you are living on average earnings, you will live on average earnings for employees, about 80 percent of employees, so that, by the way, in this average earnings data, you do not even have small entrepreneurs with less than 5 employees, and obviously these small businesses do not give you wages that give you this average upward, rather a wage that will raise this average further down. If we look at how the minimum wage is going, how pensions are going, then two important changes should be proposed immediately. One: every year, you make the mistake of planning inflation in the budget to be lower than it will be in reality. They are still following this example, which is set to 3 percent in the next year's budget, and they are planning to raise their pension accordingly, while there is virtually no year to avoid pension compensation for pensioners. That's what's going to happen the other day, 0.6 percent less than 1 percent, 0.6 percent pension compensation for pensioners. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the case of a 100 thousand HUF pension, this is 600 HUF. 600 forints. At best, you can buy a bottle of food oil, a bottle, provided, of course, that the pensioner buys in the right place and is satisfied with the less expensive quality. But even a little more compensation wouldn't buy two bottles of food oil. You use a pension compensation scheme every year when it's ridiculously low, with a quantity of oil per month, you want to make up for the pensioners. In their case, the pension indexing method that takes into account not only inflation, such low-planned inflation, but also the evolution of actions, so that pensions can keep pace with the increase in earnings, i.e. by increasing average earnings, has to be re-introduced; I have said that this is unfortunately not the case for the majority because of the distribution. And the other thing that needs to be done is tax-free minimum wage. All over Europe, the minimum wage is the highest tax and contribution burden in Hungary. This intolerable practice must be removed quite simply. Dear House, I told you about the hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros, now let me talk about the problems of my constituency. For example, there is the case of Kőbánya. A great many things need to be developed in stone mines, despite the efforts of the municipality, and unfortunately I must say to you that the amendment I propose in the budget essentially repeats some of our amendments last year, since you rejected this proposal at the time. One of the main cultural centers of Kőbánya and the entire South Pest is the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor Cultural Center, popular maiden name: Pataky. It is not simply a cultural centre, in this building there is a library, exhibition rooms and theatre as well as a theatre. This is a building of which there are few in the country, as far as I know. The other two are in Gödöllő and Vácon, and we are talking about the same buildings. The renovation of all ebbed buildings and all such buildings outside the Stone Mine was possible with State aid. Kőbánya has been left out of these, and Kőbánya is one of the districts that had to suffer a serious loss of billions because of your municipal policy. So I'm asking you to at least give back some of the money as compensation, to contribute to the renovation of the Pataky. The population of Kőbánya deserves more than the promotion of the renovation of a single Lőrinc Mészáros hotel. Please take this into account. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. My constituency contains two settlements, let me talk about Kispest's problems this time. Like Kőbány Kispest, a settlement that could be a city with county rights, a settlement from which the government has now taken significant amounts, and a settlement which, although submitting its claim, hopes that the development will be supported in some way in the context of the compensation, will receive zero forints of compensation if this situation remains so. That is why I am also obliged to submit an amendment which has been proposed to the Government by the Assembly or mayor of Kispest, but which can now be resolved in the debate on the budget law and in the votes. So I'm going to give you a list that's on the list of demands that the government rejected. First of all, allow me to bring up the development of the medical facility. This health institute in Kispesten has not been a hospital in recent years, thanks to the efforts of the local government, has been enriched with a number of tools, but further development is needed, as Kispest people's big dream is to achieve one-day surgical care, so they do not have to travel elsewhere. Well, this one-day surgical care should be supported by an upgrade. This potom is about 500 million forints, so it's a fraction of that, like the Mészáros Lőrinc hotel in Eger. Please, for the sake of the people of Kispest, allow the development of the health care facility to be given as much as the renovation of a fraction of a single Hotel of Lőrinc Mészáros. The second thing I want to mention about Kispest is the market in Kispest. This is a very old market, true, very popular market, one of the most popular markets in South Pest. Here you can buy good-quality vegetables, meat, bakery products, and the rest, I don't list them, but they're in terrible condition. This is also an area that I have never forgotten in recent years, and I have tabled several amendments to the draft budget law in order to support the renewal of the market in Kipest from government budget money, and this was also on the list submitted to the government by the city of Kipest. [[16.20]] Well, it would take about HUF 2 billion to buy in the market in Kispest, and even this amount is less than what only in Eger Lőrinc Mészáros gets to renovate a hotel. And last but not least, allow me to appeal to you for the renovation of the swimming pool in Kispest. This swimming pool in Kispest is 33 years old, not only for the pleasure of the Kispest people, it was built sometime 33 years ago, partly from residential offerings. Since then, of course, it has undergone a number of improvements thanks to the Municipality of Kippest, but it needs further development. After 33 years, this swimming pool deserves central budget support. Not even the amount of this renovation would be worth a billion forints. Even that's a lot less, I'll say it again, than the only hotel for Butcher Lawrence. Make this renovation possible, please. Okay, there's the vault in the beautiful new penthouse that's about to move in. There will be a little less money in the vault, and the richest Hungarian will bear it. Don't punish the cities by not being valued even as much as their richest hotels in Hungary! Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. To sum up, wherever we are in the country... the Fidesz congresswoman speaking before me said: . if we visit our constituencies. I don't need to see you, because I live in my constituency, Kispesten, and I can see exactly what the underdeveloped developments are, as opposed to your hurrah-optimist reports, the locals, the people who live there. What I ask of you is that, in addition to global objectives, as a tax-free minimum wage, as the introduction of a correct method of calculating pensions instead of the present one, you should also help the municipalities to return at least the most important part of the development money to these municipalities after the current government withdrawals. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience and attention.
u2021-05-19-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. We still have almost two minutes of dialogue, Congressman, so we're not talking about patience. The next speaker was Ms Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-05-19-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget of 2022 is being discussed by the Parliament, and many of my fellow Members have already given different titles and nominations to this budget. What I can tell you is that this is a budget for the future, which pushes the next government into a more difficult situation. The total budget for 2022 is set at HUF 28 505 209 million and the total revenue is HUF 25 352 556,9 million. This deficit is 3152 It will amount to a million forints. With such a huge shortage in the last 11 years, the Treasury Department has never submitted a budget. The public debt ratio planned for 31 December 2022 would be 79,3 per cent. What are we looking at? That the deficit was 66.3 percent by 31 December 2019. For 11 years, the government has been leading such a fragile economy and budget that in a few months, it could even improve the debt-to-GDP ratio results of 9 per cent and 15.8 per cent in a year, with a planned economic expansion of 5 per cent, by improving only 0.8 per cent over a year on the debt-to-GDP ratio of 15.8 per cent. Well, I wouldn't brag about it if it wasn't for the financial administration. From the current HUF 37 300 billion, the planned deficit of more than HUF 3000 billion will certainly increase the government debt to over HUF 40 000 billion by 2022, which is twice as high as in 2010. The future generation is fully indebted to by this government, and they do so by doing so in order to obtain political benefits at the moment. The other issue is that economic operators have been diligent and prudent and, therefore, in recent years, have produced high economic development, 4-5 percent, which has actually helped the government out because of its completely wasteful and unthinkable budget. It was the miracle that the debt-to-GDP ratio of the 19th year's mid-year 73 per cent was 66,3 per cent on 31 December just because it was 71,9 per cent again on 30 June 2020. We all know that in such a short period of time, these improvements and reductions will not go without different administrative procedures. The State Audit Office's report of December 2020 reads as follows: public debt, which is expected to rise significantly in 2020 and 21, will also be able to be safely financed if there is a continuation of wealth in international financial markets. Despite the positive projections for the latter, it is appropriate to prepare for the difficult financing of public debt as a result of the high indebtedness of almost all the countries in the world and the increasing demand for loans to restart the economy, and for international financial markets to become turbulence and unpredictable. Experience has shown that the so-called emerging markets include Hungary as well, and therefore Hungary would suffer a negative turnaround in the money market regardless of its own better performance. In the event of such a situation, both liquidity and financing risks would be increased, especially among some foreign investors. The current budget does not respond to these calls at all, and the President of the State Audit Office, in his speech, has very little regard for these precautions which he has called for, and has, in an extraordinary way, concealed and covered up all the structural problems that I think he should have dealt with in his speech today. On 23 May 2018, the Council of the European Commission issued an opinion proposing that an adjustment of 1 percent of GDP will be needed in our country, because it considers our current policy to be extremely risky and that a significant deterioration in budget expenditure is expected. What was the government's answer to that? He said that after the government debt was around 69 percent, he swept these expectations off the table and said that the 2019 budget included everything that the Council of the European Union required in this material and, as we can see, it was not there, because the economic difficulties caused by the epidemic immediately showed that our prospects could easily deteriorate. Of course, today all government speakers, the President of the SAO, the President of the Fiscal Council, have also passed through this circumstance, but they have just indicated that, of course, this crisis has made our budgetary and sovereign debt worse, but what we can do is what we did not expect this crisis to happen. However, everyone who has submitted plans to the Parliament for years and has submitted economic and budgetary plans to citizens that did not have the means to deal with a crisis that could occur at any time has to take responsibility. You can't blame everything on the plague, we have to admit that. It is because, as we can see, during the period of the epidemic, large companies have been able to increase their revenues to such an extent that their ability to pay taxes has also increased significantly, and the richest Hungarians have been able to increase their wealth during the crisis year, which means that the government would be able to compensate, for example, for the loss of income in its tax form, only to spare speculative incomes, to spare those rich people who have been rich from the source of the budget. And now, at these times, they should give back to the Hungarian people what was taken from them and what they could realize from their purchases. [[16.30]] CXCIV 2011 Since the entry into force of law, it can be said that the Ministry of Finance has been distinguishing until the planning of the budget for the year 18 and has planned something that had a chance to be accomplished, has not been kicking off with the numbers. If we look back on the planned numbers today, we can see that there was a basis for it and that it was actually able to achieve them. But somehow from 2018, the desires got out of control. One year of economic growth, higher than planned, has given the financial government the courage that the deterioration caused by the crisis has made them so heavy because of these courageous growth plans. The limitless spending, the reserve of every year, brought the balance of the budget to ice. It was not the epidemic alone that caused an 8 percent deficit instead of the planned deficit of less than 3 percent, but because each year reserves were practically spilled out of the budget for opaque subsidies. There was an Orbán government, please, between 98 and 2002, where the minimum debt-to-GDP ratio was 52 per cent and the highest was 59 per cent. And today, we're going to keep competing for 69,5 percent, and even in a year, because of the epidemic, which means that it was able to rise to 18,5 percent again, above 80 percent. Indeed, in 2010 and 11 the new Orbán government has already increased its debt-to-GDP ratio to a rate that has never been before. It's over 80%, and we're sinking from this position of over 80 percent year after year by 1 or 2 percent along with continuous hurrah-optimism. While we spend a great deal of money in proportion to GDP, both return and competitiveness growth from investments unfortunately do not usually show the figures, they do not reflect the corresponding growth in development. This is said not only by EU government experts, but also by Hungarians, which means that investments are overpriced and that their utilisation or social benefits in economic life are not at all as high as those investments are. Hungarian GDP in 2020 was around 170 billion dollars. At that time, Minister of State Banai said that the 2021 projections would already be HUF 51 000 billion in GDP. On this basis, it submitted the budget for 2021. Compared to this, a six-month crisis has already reduced the performance of the economy by 5.1 percent, and the performance of the economy has already decreased by 5 percent in the first quarter of GDP in the first quarter of 2020, even though the virus situation only started in the third month of the first quarter. The government had a crisis caused by the virus and the virus, like a bite of bread, because it distracted the real economic problems, covered up the actual economic deterioration that could be expected without an epidemic. When, on June 30, 2019, Mr.Orbán said that a crisis will come from the West by 2020 and that the economy will collapse by 2020, and the economic development of the previous three years will stop, what did he mean? I can only hope that you didn't know on June 30th 19th that soon a virus would be released from China. And as we can see, the crisis didn't come from the West, it did come from the East, the Communist buddies, and we don't feel the full economic impact of the epidemic yet. At the end of 19 GDP was HUF 47 500 billion. This decreased by 5 per cent, now reaching about HUF 45 000 billion, which means it is impossible, which the Secretary of State predicted here by the end of 21 to grow to HUF 51,000 billion. And why does that matter? It is important because the debt-to-GDP ratio of 80% will not be significantly more favourable. Over the past few years, government representatives have been talking about hubris, big talk, hurrah-optimism, and then a virus came along, and all the things that have been fooling people in almost a few days. Now the government wants to boost the economy by taking on additional loans, reviving the future, but it doesn't come from the people who carry the country on their shoulders with modest income. If they hadn't robbed the accumulated reserves by the end of each year in the favorable years without parliamentary consent, we wouldn't have felt this crisis. If all the prognosis that we could have heard from Parliamentary Secretary Banai in this Chamber during the last three years at the hearing of budgetary laws, believe me, an economic downturn caused by a virus alone would not have led to this deterioration in the budgetary position. Indeed, it offers significant new resources for health, this is very positive, wage development is reflected in the figures, but in this next budget we do not reach 10 percent of the EU average GDP in terms of health funding. It is important that we achieve this because Hungary's citizens' well-being, especially after an epidemic, could be created in an extraordinary way by improving health care. With regard to education, the government is still not trying to move away from funding around 3 per cent of GDP, even though the EU average is 4.7 per cent. The fundamental potential for the economic and social development of our country is the break-out points of education and education. At the pension, the EU average is 11 percent, we still cannot move from the rate of around 8 percent, and what is most outrageous, the entire municipal system in this budget is intended to spend HUF 873.2 billion, together with development and funding. This is HUF 277 million per settlement per 3150 settlement on average. Just for the record, a fellow Member said that only last year Lőrinc Mészáros received HUF 17 billion as a gift from the budget, only what Lőrinc Mészáros received is the total source of funding and development of 61 settlements. A man's support! For the inhabitants of Hungary, total municipal funding is HUF 89 thousand per year. From this, quality municipal services cannot be maintained. Now, while there is an increase in the support of municipalities to 1.9 per cent of GDP from 1.7 per cent last year, at least 0.2 per cent of all displacements. We must admit that the daily well-being of 9 million 700 thousand people is part of giving municipalities sufficient resources to provide quality services locally. While companies in Hungary receive 2.7 times as much budget support as the EU average, they spend just half as much money on the tasks of municipalities, i.e. making them finance the company's wealth with citizens. Well, where'd the world see that? ! The simple cleaning lady pays the big company's taxes so it can prosper? ! Come on, think about it. Hungarian people are not the wallet of large companies! We could compare three plans in the last three years, but we can't, because as more people have said before me, we plan the next year before we know the previous one, which means we never have real numbers that could be prepared for next year's budget planning. In 2020, the government created a government deficit of 8.1 per cent of GDP, raising debt-to-GDP debt to 80.4 per cent. In the convergence programme sent to the European Commission, the Hungarian Government promises to reduce public debt to 73.1 percent by 2025, which means that the 9 percent reduction over the six-month period compared to 65.5 percent a year ago, the 15.8% increase in government debt over a year, promises to reduce 7 percent over five years. Then tell me: what has been the hurrah-optimism of recent years if you dare to achieve only 7 percent improvement in five years, that is to say you are trying to plan this? ! And what I would like to talk about one last time is the demographic problem. We simply don't hear anything from the government. We see that, yes, in order for children to be born, people will receive loans and state aid, yes, but we need more than that. We need a more predictable public life, a predictable legal system, a predictable economy. People should not be told how to live, but, on the basis of the principle of living and letting live, they should be entrusted with what family structure, what ideas, what environment and what life goals they live in. [[16.40]] We must not tell citizens how to get settled. One thing must be done for the Hungarian state: to support people in achieving their ambitions. The Hungarian government spends thousands of billions on children, on the birth of children, but it does nothing to get these children into a suitable environment in Hungary. He said in one of his speeches, which I listened to on television, that he asked that not the 300-page budget law, which was submitted on 4 May, 14 days ago, but the 1200-page material ten days later, be studied by the Members when they spoke. This was filed four days ago. All I can say, Mr Secretary of State, is that this is extremely cynical, and it was an disrespectful speech to Members, because while you can't give a single answer to Members' questions in 15 days, where do you get the courage to tell Members that you had four days to study 1,200 pages and talk about it? I believe that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance authorize you to speak to Members in this manner, and I can tell you, Mr Secretary, that you should take it a little back from your face. You've gotten used to the fact that you're always right for the last three years, and I think you should stop doing that. No one will tell you how much time you've had, nor should you do anything to humiliate opposition representatives with such texts. I'd be happy to sit down with you for four days without knowing anything about a substance, and see how 1200 pages in four days you're gonna quit my job. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-19-70	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, I respectfully inform the House that Mr Sándor Burány has informed me that the Group of Dialogue will hand over one minute and 57 seconds of its timeframe to the group of MSZP. I would like to ask you to adjust the timeframe accordingly. [[It's happening.]] Of course, Mr Sándor Burány made this announcement in writing, in accordance with house rules. Thank you very much. I am now speaking to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State, who, I think, wants to speak now as a matter of personal concern, but first of all, the professional questions... thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-71	With all due respect, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I promise you, my comment will focus on the professional parts. I consciously did not respond to personal revelations, because I consider you to be more serious, and I also consider the authority of the Parliament to be more serious. But very briefly: I do not think that the style that Mr Tamás Harangozó mentioned is appropriate, when Tamás Deutsch did not bring up the content issues, but referred to some of his activities. [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] I don't think it's appropriate that Szabó Timea [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] Congresswoman accused everyone on the government side of collective theft. I note here that if you have information about a crime, then take legal action, theft is a sin, you have to act in this regard, but this comment on the budget, I think it has not helped to understand content matters. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, please allow me to [[Dr. Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] I'd say...
u2021-05-19-72	Mr. Messenger! Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-19-73	... I should mention that I referred to one thing: that there were a number of questions that Mr Dániel Z. Karpát mentioned, to which the answers are included in the document. All I said was that, as required by the Public Finance Act, in line with the practice of previous years, the Government also submitted additional documents to the Parliament, in which detailed answers can be found on a number of issues. And, Mr. President, I really am now responding to the professional parts. Mr Tamás Harangozó said that it is worth talking about facts about the budget. I respectfully inform the Parliament that the government has spent HUF 70 billion on wage support if I can quote only the measures in force: almost 30 thousand applications for sectoral wage support have been made, over HUF 90 billion has been paid in order to protect 179 thousand jobs. In the case of wage support for research and development, 1300 applications were made, and 13 billion HUF was requested, which were paid. For job-creating wage support, a budget of 20 billion was opened, with nearly 10,000 applications, with HUF 4.5 billion. There is also a salary supplement for the placement of non-workers for a year. From public employment to the competition sector, we provide an additional supplement. These are only the current programmes, which are nominally higher than the amount mentioned by Mr Bellozó. But what is important, I think, is that the government has not only sought to preserve jobs in its economic policy, it is an important goal, but also to make investment in the current crisis as an opportunity, to take advantage of the opportunity to strengthen the position of domestic companies at global level in the crisis. That is why we have provided investment aid to many companies. I would like to point out that most of the programmes were of normative nature. In the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone, more than HUF 400 billion was paid for investment for all companies who applied and ensured that they would retain jobs and use at least the same amount of funding for investment purposes. [[Continue in 199/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary So I think that, when we talk about the results of recent years, we are talking about the fact that, contrary to the statement made by Congresswoman Anett Bősz, who quoted György Surányi that there was no catch-up, the facts show that this investment-driven policy aimed at keeping jobs and creating jobs was successful, and that, contrary to what she said, compared to the 10 per cent increase in the EU average between 2010 and 2022, the Hungarian economy expanded by 30 per cent. If this isn't a catch-up, then what's the catch-up? Employment rate: In 2010, the Hungarian figure was 54.9%, the EU average was 66.3%, in 2020 the Hungarian figure was almost 70 percent, compared to 67.6% of the European Union. So Hungarian employment in 2010 was much lower than the EU average, and today the employment rate is substantially higher than the EU average. Mr Belló said that the European Commission has not received any job-saving support, I hope, and I quote precisely, Mr President. In fact, let me say that, yes, the Hungarian Government has requested it. In fact, let me say that we received support in December. What would have happened if the government had waited for the European Commission to provide resources for job retention? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] I would add that the European Commission is involved in investment [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He didn't accept subsidies. Congressman, you said we didn't ask for it. Allow me to make it factually clear that we requested it. Unfortunately, I have to say... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: They didn't actually claim this year...]]
u2021-05-19-74	Congressman Bell, if you want him to stop speaking, then continue. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I'm on it.]] But then I'll have to weed you out of there. [[Defiance. Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes. Interventions from opposition parties.]]
u2021-05-19-75	In terms of minimum wage, let me tell you the facts. I agree with all the speakers that it is essential that economic growth and the expansion of jobs also go hand in hand with the increase in actions. I find the comments at the minimum wage odd because between 2002-2010, for those minimum wage workers who did not raise children, their income growth in real terms was 5.8 per cent, and between 2010 and 2022 it was 42.8 per cent. [[16.50]] If a person had three children and earned a minimum wage, the real income growth between 2010 and 2021 was 108,9 percent and minus 7.6 percent between 2002 and 2010. Therefore, when talking about tax reductions, it is also worth taking into account that, in addition to proportionate, single-key personal income tax, the nominal amount of the minimum wage has increased significantly, and this increase has resulted in an increase in real earnings for minimum wage earners. But, Mr President, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, in many cases, tax secrecy was a means of ensuring that workers were declared on minimum wage and were paid in pockets. It's a whitening measure, though, that, yes, everyone has to pay, at a low tax rate, but they have to pay taxes legally. I would like to draw attention to the fact that about a quarter of employees in the competition sector were declared at minimum wage, so one way to hide taxes was by not paying taxes on minimum wage notifications and by paying in pockets. But, I repeat, with the minimum wage being burdened with personal income tax, the nominal minimum wage has increased significantly together, which is why we are talking about the fact that those who have earned and earned minimum wages today have much more real income than they did ten years ago. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] State debt. Let me say, however, that this decline caused by the current coronal virus is more serious than the 2008-09. In 2009, the world economy was in about zero, with a minimal decline of 6.7 percent at the time of the Hungarian economic downturn. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] In 2020 the world economy shrunk by 3 percent, the decline was greater; the Hungarian economy decreased by 5 percent, to a lesser extent than the EU average. Why was that? It is also because we have helped businesses in the framework of counter-cyclical economic policy. It is no coincidence that we can now report positive employment figures. Yet, it is not a coincidence that those who were able to keep their jobs have increased their wages. And it is no coincidence that public debt financing today is much cheaper than it was ten years ago. That is why I think that, yes, in terms of rates, we can say that we have reached a level above 80 per cent, as before, but we also have to add that while ten years ago the crisis practically swept Hungary away, we could not finance our public debt by accident that we needed the help of the IMF and the European Commission, now we have faith in the Hungarian economy, we have the belief that we can reduce the debt ratio, which is why financing debt is much cheaper now than it was before. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] And, Mr President, take into account that the Hungarian debt ratio has increased year after year in the previous decade, after 2010, with the average debt of the Union falling in a period of economic activity, and also with regard to the fact that there is now a crisis where the debt ratio of all the countries of the European Union has increased, including Hungary. The good news is that the rates turned around here too: while ten years ago the Hungarian debt ratio was substantially higher than the EU average, the situation is now reversed. We are working on and that is what next year's budget is about to reduce this debt ratio in the coming years. Several people have said, Mrs Anett Bősz and Mr Sándor Burány, that, although economic policy is helpful, they see that extra expenditure helps businesses, but this only affects a narrow segment and not small and medium-sized enterprises. Let me say, however, that the credit moratorium applies to all enterprises, the credit moratorium was mainly used by SMEs. Let me tell you that the government has launched countless loan and guarantee schemes to mention only one, the Széchenyi card programme, where loans can be used at interest rates in a zero-to-half-percent range. Let me tell you that the cata suspension affected 151 thousand small entrepreneurs who were exempted from paying the cata. Let me tell you, we've also reduced the rate of Kiva. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] And let me say that wage subsidies and targeted wage subsidies typically helped SMEs that operate in the most affected sectors. So we have implemented general measures that, I think, have also provided substantial assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises. Local governments, bleeding out the municipalities again. Forgive me, but let me ask you again what you think of the process that was in the 2010s, which resulted in government debt of nearly HUF 1300 billion! What do you think of the current situation, if that was the previous situation? And I repeat: the deposits of the municipalities were reduced from HUF 1080 billion to HUF 1040 billion at the end of 2019, if I remember correctly. I repeat: I know that many municipalities had to perform a serious task, thanks to all the municipalities, but I think that we are in a viral situation which, I repeat, resulted in a more serious decline at global level than ten years ago, that situation had to be dealt with, and everyone was responsible for that. On the other hand, I would like to say to Mrs Krisztina Hohn that there was a wage increase for municipal officials, a 20% wage increase in 2019, the central financing of which was provided by the budget, and we will ensure this in the coming years. As regards the comments and comments made by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, as regards the municipalities, let me say that the tasks of the Hungarian municipal authorities are different from those of many European countries. It should be seen that, for example, along with debt consolidation, the maintenance of public education institutions, the maintenance of many health institutions and the maintenance of social responsibilities have been transferred from one of the municipal tasks. From this point of view, it is necessary to assess the bill that lies before you, which indeed contains the municipal subsidies mentioned by the congresswoman, but which, at the level of support, represent an expenditure of HUF 8 billion greater than in 2021 and a reduction of more than HUF 25 billion in the solidarity contribution to be paid by the municipalities, so that the municipalities have to pay less. But most importantly, economic growth. We know that the financial situation of the municipalities is essentially determined by whether the Hungarian economy is growing or not, not by how much support they receive from the central budget, but by whether or not their main source of income, the business tax, is increasing. Once again, between 2014 and 2019, local government sales of business tax increased by 50 percent. I ask you to accept that it is also in the interest of the local authorities to achieve economic growth above 5 per cent next year, because then local authorities will also increase their business tax revenue. In this hope, I believe that it is in the interests of the local authorities and of the state as a whole and of the country as a whole that economic policy, which in recent years has resulted in economic growth above the level of the Union, has led to significant growth compared to employment figures in the EU, also in the years 2022 and the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have two-minute comments, and I am giving the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to a topic in the next year's budget that is narrower in my country, my constituency, Szekszárd and its surroundings, but I can safely say that it concerns the whole of Tolna County worth a better fate, and that is the M9 motorway you know well, or, now, let us be modest, a highway, an expressway. You know, because here in front of Parliament, Gergely Gulyás promised that he would do something about the government's idea of throwing in last December, as it is true that after 18 years, they do not want to build this road in Tolna County, but they want to build an M9 motorway in Baranya County, which is totally unacceptable for residents of Tolna County and Szekszárds; it is unacceptable, because this is a matter of life and death from the point of view of road safety in the physical sense of the word, and from an economic point of view also for the regions of Bonyhád and Dombóvár. Therefore, I intend to present to the House tomorrow a proposal for an amendment that will clearly and publicly provide money so that a certain part of the planning work and even the construction work can start next year and give István Horváth and other Tolna County representatives of Fidesz, including the Minister, an opportunity to clarify their position for their voters, what is more important for them: the life, safety and economic future of the people living there, their livelihood or party discipline. [[17.00]] I would very much like the whole Fidesz fraction to be able to vote, if necessary, because the Minister said that they would find a solution that would not help the people of Baranya County by taking away livelihoods and even security from the people of Tolna County. Please support my suggestion. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-19-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Gergely Arató, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2021-05-19-79	Dear House, Several people here have said that there is a normal process of budget debates. That's how I am; right, in this cycle, the fourth, and overall, I think, the twelfth budget debate that I am involved in, and it's pretty much always possible to know who's going to say what the governing parties are saying and what the current opposition parties are saying. There aren't any big surprises now, and obviously there are some ways to put it? There are also empty boasts in the pro-government rhetoric, which we have just heard from the Secretary of State, but there are also professional speeches to which it is worth answering. Because I think at the end of the day, voters decide what they feel in their own lives from what one side or the other says. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Congresswoman Mária Kállai spoke very highly of the budget for education and science. I hope that you will also explain to Mr Tamás Deutsch what it is that you do not know after many years of MEPs that direct support does not mean theft of support, as he said. Madam President, you have every right to say how important it is for Hungarian science players to be good at direct EU applications. But the truth is, here we can say big figures about the budget in general, about wage developments in general, a very long and very boring debate about what happened to the budget before 2010 and after 2010. You would like to talk about 2009 and you would like to forget about 2002 and I could say such wisdom. But that's not the point. The important thing is that if education and the education budget look so good, then how do teachers and our colleagues feel about it. Did they get any compensation for having to work much more during the distance education? Did they get a hundred percent sick if they got sick at school in the corona virus? The answer to both is no, and from now on, statistics don't make much sense. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to the speaker who has been notified. István Simicskó, leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-05-19-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, On behalf of the KDNP fraction, I would like to address the general debate on today's budget. Listening to the speakers before me, of course, there is much to comment on, but that is not the purpose of my speech today. Let me start by noting that, although unfortunately, Andrea Varga-Damm was no longer here, he was referring to Minister of State of Banai, a statement that was completely unworthy of the congresswoman, because if anyone can speak modestly and humbly about the budget, it is the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, although obviously all of our State Secretarys know his duty and his duties. I don't think anyone here has made any statements in a big voice and pompous manner. With due humility and modesty, both the Secretary of State and the Ministerial Guard do their work. Why do I say that? In general, let me say that if I quote a politician between the two world wars, I know that this is a difficult time, but let me quote a former Minister of Public Education and Religion, Kuno Klebelsberg, who has declared that there are three kinds of patriotism in a difficult time, so we can do three things for our country, our nation, our future, our children. He said briefly, in three words: the speaker, the bitter and the creator. I think it is important to take over creativity from Kuno Klebelsberg, at least in his mind, especially during a crisis, especially in the midst of a pandemic. Last year, when I spoke to him, I was able to spend a few years, thanks to God, here within the walls, and we were able to participate in a lot of sensible and, of course, pointless debates, and we have heard many comments, it is always a big challenge to put together a budget, especially if a pandemic strikes all the countries of the world unexpectedly, and I mentioned last year that it is a particular responsibility to plan a country's budget, and it is particularly important to have a great knowledge and professional preparation. What I see is that, even in the period of planning last year and before last year, there has been sufficient flexibility in the state budget for the needs of all sectors, all sectors, even if such an unexpected pandemic hits, we have been able to respond, the government and public bodies have been able to respond, not just in a way, but in a rapid, prominent way, to respond, to the challenges of protecting people. I also see this responsible, creative thinking in next year's planning. I therefore think that thanks should also be paid to the staff of the Ministry of Finance, Minister Mihály Varga and Minister of State Banai, because they have indeed done a serious job. But all sectors added their own objectives and programmes during the planning period. Since I was a former minister, I know exactly what it means, what it is to set goals for a wallet, to assign financial resources, to negotiate with the professional organisation of the Ministry of Finance within the government, to achieve the coverage of this. It's not a small challenge, it's a lot of hours, it's a lot of coordination. Of course, it is not possible to meet everyone, but in the midst of the pandemic, the most important thing is that protection is effective. The graftation is moving well, we are close to the 5 million vaccinees, Hungary is among the world's top in this regard as well. At the same time, I saw that, as we started planning the budget for next year, the government had already started economic programmes, giving Hungarian and foreign companies the possibility of increasing competitiveness, employing Hungarian people and Hungarian workers, trying to increase their competitiveness, and making decisions on the part of the government that increased the Hungarian employment rate, and really focused on caring for people. And not only from a social point of view, because, as Mr Secretary of State said, economic growth gives us the opportunity to grow all sectors, and the economies of each country can pull all countries out of different crises. So what I see is that this is a well-planned budget. And indeed, an economic-oriented approach is also included in next year's budget figures, as the government is preparing for an unprecedented historical act, and we are all preparing to restart the economy. Budget 22 is about re-launching the economy, which is crucial for all sectors, all sectors, to be able to operate and to achieve the goals and plans. Ladies and gentlemen, What I would add to this is that a budget obviously provides a financial framework for achieving the objectives, in a way that can be planned. In a well-functioning state, this is something that needs special attention. But it also represents a creed, values, values. I talked about the importance of the economy, the economic re-launch action plan, for which the government plans HUF 7308 billion, if I have read it correctly in the material. That's a serious amount of money. I trust that this includes a sufficient opportunity and a start-up engine that will allow the Hungarian economy to return to the best economies in Europe. This is also a great goal, and it also means creating, wanting to do. I would just like to point out that, if it is already a creed and if it is a re-launch of the economy, it is worth mentioning in this context that, in recent times, since the change of regime, there have been several governments in position and has been given the opportunity of voters. I wouldn't want to look at it fully now, but it is worth noting, for a sentence, how and how left-wing crisis management took place. They basically always used an approach that put the burden on people, there was a tax increase, there were restrictions, but I don't want to go through with it. And as Minister of State Banai said, the debt of the municipalities was also typical, and this government has restored them economically and financially. So when they're talking about scarfing, I would also like to draw attention to responsible farming, as well as to the government's helping hand. [[17.10]] Obviously, the municipalities must also manage responsibly in the coming period and not constantly point the finger at the government to take funds away from them, while not. For the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party and its representatives, I can safely say that, in addition to relaunching the economy, it is at least as important to reflect family-centred politics, because families are the power of the nation, so this is reflected in the budget figures. We are pleased to see that support for families will amount to virtually 5 percent of GDP, i.e. 5 percent of gross domestic product, this is a significant amount, and support for families with children and children will be further expanded. This is crucial, because children are the future for all of us, for Hungary. If I have already said here about existential security and safety of life as regards support for families, let me also briefly mention our physical security and, above all, a few more words about the budget of armed and police bodies, because this is exemplary, as is the budget section, these chapters are increasing. We see that, overall, if I have now well added the planned budget of the armed and police agencies for the year 22 to the year 22 this amounts to roughly HUF 2000 billion, approximately half and half of which in the law enforcement and armed forces, i.e. in the Hungarian Defence Office it is close to HUF 1000 billion. It was never that big a deal. The total amount of support, as far as I can see, amounts to HUF 952 billion. When I got there in 2010, I was able to work as a secretary of state, then as a minister at the defence wallet, there weren't nearly such frameworks and opportunities. The defence budget has increased more than fourfold since 2010, and the amount spent on defence has increased significantly. This means further expansion. This is not done for itself, but we do have a strategic goal, we have a vision with which we want to develop it into a force defining the Hungarian Defence Force in the region. We have a ten-year strategic vision for this, which was introduced to the Hungarian Defence Office by my humble person as an idea-maker, this is the Hungarian Defence Program in 2026. I believe that this is being implemented at a good pace. Obviously, this has a budgetary implications. In line with this, the current budget provides adequate coverage, since this nearly HUF 1000 billion is a significant increase in resources, and I trust that the Hungarian Defence Forces will welcome this. Obviously, from this salary increase to the acquisition of assets, the development and development of technology and technology are also included. It is important that the domestic defence industry also starts on the road to development. I just got to talk about it today. At the invitation of Minister Palkovics, we have established a body that represents the Defence Innovation Board, in which we are trying to create a kind of intellectual lunar yard for research, innovation, with the involvement of Hungarian knowledge, university teachers, university students and students, to bring the Hungarian military industry back to life, and to produce products that can be exported as widely as possible from Hungarian knowledge and Hungarian innovation. So what I see is that there is a sufficient amount, a sufficient framework, an opportunity and room for manoeuvre in the defence sector. The budget of national security services is also increasing. I have reviewed the budget of the Information Office, here the budget is increasing from HUF 17.5 billion to almost HUF 22 billion. Obviously, intelligence work is also important for competitiveness, as economic intelligence is also important for Hungary, for all countries. I wouldn't want to go deeper, because I don't want my speech to be encrypted, but obviously it also includes the fact that the amount allocated to the services is, of course, increasing. Indeed, these are meaningful developments and objectives, strengthening public order and public security, continuing border protection, maintaining border surveillance against possible increasing migratory pressure, and we can also see sufficient guarantees of these resources in the police agencies, in the police budget. Law enforcement spending amounts to HUF 991 billion. This represents an increase of HUF 542 billion compared to 2010, which is a 2.5-fold increase. This, too, I think, is exemplary, especially given the fact that, by the way, a pandemic is sweeping through and decimating every country, putting every country in a difficult position. But what I see is that the Hungarian government has not only handled the crisis well, handled the epidemic correctly, well, and has done everything in its power to preserve the health of the Hungarian people, not only has it acquired vaccines in time from the East, which, unfortunately, you are still criticizing and attacking in an unworthy way to this day, and this is how we can walk in the forefront of grafting, preventing no smaller states than the United States, which is in fact the strongest state in our global world, so we also prevent them from vaccination in proportion to the population. They all have sources, they have sources, they have collateral. So this gave me the opportunity, which I referred to at the beginning, to say that the government was sufficiently flexible in managing the financial framework and being able to redistribute, because the most important thing was the protection of human life. I trust you can see now that the pandemic has come to an end. We hope that this will happen as soon as possible, and that our lives can return to the way we call it, if not normal, but it is a kind of, to say the least, a period of peace and a period of normal farming and lifestyle, and the financial framework for this is available. I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Finance, thank Mr Banai, Minister of State, once again for his sacrifice and wish that this budget be adopted. I would like to ask my fellow Members present to support them in the final vote. Obviously, the amendments will be reviewed and reviewed by the Ministry of Finance, and it will be responsible for recommending and proposing to the government what we can and cannot accept. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-19-82	Thank you, Mr. István Simicskó Group Leader. The next announced speaker was Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2021-05-19-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to respond to a few things. Mr. Secretary of State said how much they helped, let's say, the catnip entrepreneurs during the epidemic, because, you know, the state didn't have to pay the monthly amount for the catnip. Secretary of State, most of the Katas worked in the service industry, and it's a good thing they didn't have to pay, Mr. Secretary, because they had zero forints of income. You think that this has been enough to help us, that we did not have to pay the tax, but I could say that entrepreneurs in other countries have received 80% wage support, only to survive. But I could also say that since the outbreak of the epidemic, workers have to pay their health contributions, and we get virtually nothing for them. True, the epidemic must be dealt with, but that does not mean that other health services must be completely eliminated. The only thing the citizen can do today is basically go to private health and pay if he wants to heal. I would also like to draw the attention of the government to the fact that I hope that they have prepared a plan for treating patients who are in worse condition due to missed surgeries, missed medical visits, missed examinations and cancelled screenings in the next period. But we could also talk about the fact that Parliament discussed the support of single - parent families exactly yesterday. Unfortunately, I couldn't attend, but I followed up the debate on how much you are for the children, for the support of families. But in the meantime, they didn't mention that in 2012 you set the limit for the ceiling on the basis of the crisis, because the amendment of the law also stated that a maintenance fee of 20-25 thousand forints had been awarded to a family, and that the budget couldn't bear it anymore, so they maximized it at 14 250 forints. You have forgotten this, Mr. Secretary, that you have modified me to avoid paying more than HUF 25,000 in alimony, and now you have tabled this amendment, and we have also noticed that there is no record of this in the budget for next year. They said that instead of supporting 8 000 families, the support could reach 90,000, but not only would it have more budget planned, but it would be 60 million forints less. I'm sure you'll also be able to answer that, Mr. Secretary, as to how this can happen. And as to how a Member can prepare for the budget debate, several of us have said here earlier that we are discussing the budget for 2022 by adopting the amendment of the budget for 2021 yesterday, with HUF 1700 billion in it, without any idea of what the government will spend it for. [[17.20]] And then you will be offended, Mr Secretary, to say that a fellow Member says that this cannot be the case, and this has been going on for years. Mr. Secretary. At the end of each year, hundreds of billions of forints are being poured out on a residual basis, so that we will know what they are going to do, because I have been able to list for years what they are spending on at the end of the year, they will not bring them to Parliament, and the budget forints will disappear. I could also say that, let's say, in the course of the year, they announce that families who have three and more children will be wiped out of their nursery care fees, but they don't mention that you introduced them, which wasn't before. And by the way, when we get data on how many children that means, how many parents, they don't answer anything. I would like to join my fellow Member in asking written questions... I keep asking questions since the outbreak, because there are constant periods, that no child goes to school, and then there are periods where only juniors can enter, not high school students. I have been constantly asking over the past year how much savings the government has made from the fact that the children have not used the catering, but they simply refuse to answer any of our written questions effectively now. I'm glad you're here, Mr. Secretary of State, on the part of education. Yesterday, I deeply resented the fact that two weeks after graduation, it was graciously announced, exercising grace that it was possible to give the students a replacement. Do you know why I'm outraged, Mr. Secretary? Because there was a child who had an appendectomy the day before, and she went in the next day to graduate from high school because they refused to hear the children's request that they should be given an immediate replacement. Well, what kind of family-friendly government are we talking about, what kind of humanity, Christendom, anything when such things happen? ! All the professional organizations, the parents, the kids asked for was to be secured immediately, and you didn't, no. We also asked for the graduation kids to be in the front row so they could get shots, but they didn't. Luckily, at least the teachers were vaccinated, but the children couldn't have it, and then, with great kindness, after graduation, they said, "Well, then, 16-18-year-old children can register, and then they will begin their vaccination after graduation! And then they wonder why you're criticizing as an opposition representative. I would like a little more information on the health issue in this little time that I have at my disposal. What we see is that next year's budget, which concerns health, is a larger item, although the reported increase in wages, medical wages, and health wages. We see that the previous wage increase by health workers continues, but remains at a low level, and many remain out of it, as their increased wages remain below the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. And here again, I repeat the speakers before me that we cannot go aside from changing the medical service in the middle of the epidemic, and to this day we do not know exactly what the truth is, because even though we ask the written question, you do not answer how many health workers have not signed this contract overnight. Between 4000 and 5500, there are medical workers who signed this contract on three months' terms, which ends at the end of May. We don't get an answer, and they don't know it, but there's only signs of how many health workers are going to leave the field. Besides, the situation in health care is critical, it is not permissible in Hungary today. We see it as if they didn't hear it; the politician's voice doesn't need to be heard, but the voice of the profession should be heard. We still do not see in the budget the problem that in Hungary there are 256 permanently unfilled home dentists and 510 permanently unfilled GPs; of course, there have been changes here, because the general practitioners could create community practices. Here, too, I have tried to ask how the law has been established, who have chosen the entire practice community, who have been only partially, and who have not gone into the practice community at all. Based on the Ministry's response, it became apparent that 83 percent of the GPs joined one form of practice communities. From the answer given, it can be assumed that this proportion does not include the permanently unfilled GPs, so the proportion is 73 per cent, and the missing GPs do not benefit from the increased support expressed by the government, because we know that certain conditions have been imposed: if one chooses the entire community of practitioners or only the partial, or if he does not request from this community of practitioners, what percentage of the aid is granted. However, we also see and perceive that last year we were not able to get to know the study on the HUF 350 million health transformation ordered by the government, and it was even encrypted for ten years, although it would have been very good to know what was included in this transformation, in this study, and how these could affect, let us say, the budget for 2022. But I tell you, unfortunately, you are the transformation of health care, which affects ten million Hungarians, has been encrypted because you think that the politician doesn't need it, but the Hungarian people don't need to know it either. Basically, it can be said that no more is spent on health care, but that what is planned for a doctor's wage increase is basically included in the budget, but we do not see any change in essence, nor do we see the kind of budgetary benefits of the transformation that we are constantly hearing about what requests or orders the ministry is turning to hospitals; we do not see the budgetary implications of this. I think that when we make criticisms... Mr Secretary of State, I have been involved in several debates, he has always said that we should submit amendments, and when we submit amendments to this House or to the Ministry itself, they will sweep him off the table. It's been going on for years, it's pointing back and forth. We have proposals to amend, and let me highlight one, because you are constantly bringing up the family support system. Then I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the family tax reduction was introduced in 2011 and has not changed since then, only to the two children. Ten years have passed, and now not only the family allowance is inflected, but also the family tax start. I would like to draw attention to the fact that one and three children have remained unchanged for ten years since 2011. So, then you should think about what this family support system is like. Mr. Secretary, allow me one more sentence: work is not enough. They always say that when there's work, there's everything, but it takes a decent salary. If you have the right salary for work, you can make a living, but having a job is not equal to making a living. Over the last 11 years, poverty has risen dramatically in two groups: pensioners and workers. You'd have to think that it's really consistent that if you have a job, you have everything. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-19-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next announced speaker was Mr Font Sándor, Member Fidesz.
u2021-05-19-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have been watching the debate since the speakers spoke, we are already few, perhaps it is still Minister of State Banai who has endured this period here. Let me refer back to one or two keynote speeches made there. [[17 .30]] I was not surprised that, as a representative of Jobbik, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi and then Dániel Z. Kárpát also called this budget an election budget and the most cruel budget in Europe, and I do not know what he called this budget. I could say that they haven't seen me yet, because they haven't seen me since 2010 and 18 Members, so-called real electoral budgets, what the socialists have done. Therefore, I was very surprised when Bertalan Tóth, Attila Mesterházy, László Varju, or Sándor Burány, for the last time, called the election budget in a negative sense. This is shocking, because the aforementioned DK and MSZP politicians had a period when they did so twice, when, as a result of the budget for the election year, they released a deficit on us, the Secretary of State has already mentioned this, which was the first to second place among the European Union countries in the area of increasing the general government deficit, government deficit and government debt. Then there was a terrible high level of unemployment, and then there's 2010, which we're trying to fix year after year, now in the 12th year. That they don't remember it, I was surprised because we know sentences from Ferenc Gyurcsány: the moment of truth came quickly, the divine providence, the wealth of the world economy and hundreds of tricks, which you obviously don't need to know, helped us to survive this period until 2006, he said in the famous Autumn speech after 2006, after he misled European budget analysts and Hungarian voters with lies and hundreds of tricks. Then came the honest confession: I almost died, for a year and a half, pretending that we were steering, instead we lied in the morning, night and night. Now, these were the real election budgets, that those of you who, by chance, don't remember it because of some memory loss, then let us recall at least us, those of us who also lived the period when the socialists governed in the 2002-2010s. Then it was a smile to me that László Varju had read a phrase that must have been done by one of his speech writers that the countryside was ruined. This is smiling because the lead speaker of DK who did not delegate to the Committee on Agriculture in 2018 said so. Since 2018, the Democratic Coalition has not been a member of the Agriculture Committee of Parliament. No wonder they're writing these to their lead speaker, and he's telling you that the country is ruined. Therefore, let me turn back to the Hungarian agriculture after 2010, which thanks you very much and is well. It was also difficult for them to endure the dramatic period of 2008-2010, which we received as a legacy after 2010. But after agriculture has been classified as a strategic sector as a result of the government's decision and attitude, and so we did, we immediately showed in the budget that, if a government, a sectoral managing body, ministry, considers these farmers, agriculture and the food processing sector based on them to be worthy and supported, this agriculture can achieve very serious results. This is demonstrated by the very great development that only one of our other industries could not produce, that Hungarian agriculture has a persistent export surplus, that its annual emission levels are constantly increasing. If you remember correctly, there is no general crisis like under the socialists that we had to march to Kossuth Square for a national host demonstration. I'm not saying that there are no occasional, sometimes difficult moments in a sector. In recent times, for example, because of avian influenza, it was very serious, poultry and poultry stocks had to be eradicated, killed to prove to the EU that the phenomenon was local, we were able to deal with the phenomenon, and to maintain our export markets, so that we would not be banned from the Middle and Far East countries, which are very large distributors of these agricultural products. A new phenomenon of swine fever, unfortunately transmitted from Ukraine and Romania through feral pigs, is extremely difficult to defend against. We have these local problems, of course, but global, which would shake the whole of agriculture, there is no such thing. Despite the fact that agriculture was a weather sector, there were years when a frost, an extremely thunderous summer weather, winter frost, flood, inland water caused a serious shock to agriculture, which also appeared at some sector level, but they continued to do so at the moment as the weather turned right, and I say, not by us, by the government, but by weather factors, they were restored, agriculture immediately recovered, and continued its dynamic, constantly increasing performance. As a result, agriculture has always been expected to be one of the most significant GDP forces, the very nice growth rate of GDP that has been sustained until 2019. Of course, we did. For example, one of the aforementioned weather risks is the summer hail, the thunderstorming period, with the only and first coverage of the entire country's territory in Europe with a series of protective equipment to reduce hail damage, the whole area, i.e. 93,000 square kilometres. No one else has done that yet. And then there's the freezing season, and that's a harder question. But in one of the subsidies that is now being opened, there is a special opportunity, according to today's knowledge, for the supported installation of antifreeze devices. Here, let me turn to the fact that the national budget, which has so far complemented 17.5 percent of the EU's resources with so-called co-financing, has increased to 80 per cent. I hope you can see what an 80% increase in Hungarian budget co-financing from 17.5 means. As a result, the EU support for the 2013-2020 period was close to HUF 1400 billion, and this will be more than HUF 4200 billion in the 21-27 cycle that is now opening. There will be more than three times the available rural development support funds over the same period. These are tender funds, usually 50 percent support. This means that the farmer will increase his invested value by the same amount due to his own strength. Let me add that about HUF 3277 billion is direct support, support to increase the profitability of agriculture, which is called 100% subsidies, i.e. direct payments to farmers due to certain activities. There are agricultural activities that the European Union does not directly support, and here again domestic resources play a very important role, such as the poultry sector, the pig sector and the dairy sector. We provide these farmers with a very large domestic budget to keep up with their international competitors. Of course, there are the classic areas that are now exciting, the transition to digitalisation, the technique of the new age; for example, the use of drones, which provides new opportunities to say, in a large field area or in a larger area of 10 hectares, 50 to 100 hectares, do not have to spray the whole area with a specific chemical, herbicide, for example, a weed slaughter only with a fraction of chemical use detected by drones. These transitions to development and incentives for technological transitions are all included in this proposal. Since I have been counted here for a long time on the number of budgets, I have been a Member of Parliament since 98, and now suddenly I cannot say that this is the twentieth or twenty-twoth or I no longer know how many contributions I could make. But if it had been true, let's just say, since 2010, the many panicking speeches from the opposition who said that if we voted on this budget, Hungarian agriculture would have been ruined... and then I watched that in 2010, in 11 and in 12 and I could list it, the opposition always said about agriculture. [[17.40]] Even Zoltán Gőgös, who was quite good at it, thought only about Hungarian agriculture other than what we did. We don't see much of an expert in the opposition right now who can authentically tell us what's wrong with agricultural land. Well, if all this had been true, the rumors and fears that the opposition said about agriculture, that if we had accepted this budget, then Hungarian agriculture would be ruined, then there would be no agriculture now if their justice had been achieved. But they didn't prove their claim, Hungarian agriculture every year and look at the agricultural report, I know that they don't usually like to read them, but when we discuss and negotiate this in the committee, and we listen to the minister, there is no story, there the figures speak for themselves, that every year the budget provided the background for farmers and not denying that it was very effective using EU funds and Hungarian funds, from which they had the opportunity to carry out a very serious agricultural production, emission and export increase much higher than the European average. I declare that the agricultural leg of the budget currently submitted in the Agricultural Ministry chapter provides the same. I will vote calmly for this budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Font. The next scheduled speaker is Mr Róbert Dudás, Member Jobbik.
u2021-05-19-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If we start from what Sándor Font said, then I think there would not be a great debate here either, because everything is fine here, not only in recent years, but here we can see continuous improvement not only here, but also in Hungary. However, I must disappoint you, Congressman, that this is not necessarily the case. I do not want to respond to previous speakers, but allow me to bring some thoughts here from the pro-government side. You say that this is the budget for a fresh start, a re-launch budget, economic life and a re-launch of life itself. I think that we can call this a budget for breaking down and digging up chasms and trenches, because there are sectors, there are sectors and there are people, even millions of people who will be hurt, not just for this, but for the last 11 years. However, if you say that this is a budget for a fresh start, then this is some recognition of the fact that the economy is almost shut down. In 2020, the number of winding-ups increased by 40 percent compared to the previous year's figures, and 12,000 companies reported winding-up, and that's how many were destroyed. It was also heard from the pro-government benches that, as it stands, in the last 10 to 11 years, the country has made such progress that when we go down to the countryside, for example, it is like finding ourselves in a different country compared to the previous periods. Then I would like to make this clear to you by saying that if we go down from Budapest to the countryside and to some of its small villages or to some small villages, it really is as if we were in another country, the roads are so bad that we can safely say that they still contain traces of asphalt. The roads of the villages are critical, and the traffic is raging. The houses are cracking, and life is completely impossible. So, let's not shout happy thoughts, there are a lot of other things to do. By the way, as regards budgetary amendments, I myself will submit such amendments for the Heves County District. It can be said that Hungary is the loser of the last two years, it is safe to say that Hungary is. Entrepreneurs in Hungary, of course, do not mean those close to the government, but in general, who are professionally established in the market, and who is active, are entrepreneurs, Hungarian workers and Hungarian municipalities. Everyone was right to expect help, as they did in every western country that you criticized: 80 percent of their wages were paid to workers who had fallen out of work, or, for example, if an educator, say, caught the infection and therefore had to stay home, he received 100 percent of the sick. This was not the case with regard to Hungary. Not only didn't the municipalities get help like they did everywhere else in the world, as each country is delicately and embarrassingly careful to help and support the municipalities, because a state knows that the municipalities are the closest to the people, they are the ones who encounter the everyday problem, and they are the ones who can remedy it. Every country has been very careful about this. What did the Hungarians get? Withdrawals. My fellow Member, István Simicskó, said that the municipalities should not point fingers at the government because they say that they have received withdrawals, even though there are no withdrawals. I would like to point out to him, to the Secretary of State, and to all of you, that, yes, there are withdrawals. They've withdrawn the car tax, they've still got their share of it, and they're not planning to give it back in the future. Withdrawals have also been made in respect of the business tax and are not planned to be returned to the municipalities in the future. With the introduction of a special economic zone, some assets are being reorganized... and even administrative units are being set up so that they do not remain in the municipalities, they do not farm, they may not be rich, but they will distribute it under the auspices of the county assembly, as you think. Why? 'Cause the county councils are out of business, and they just got another assignment. It's one of those, you could say, professional argument. The political argument, however, is that this is the only local government that is all pro-government in the whole country. It's just, you know, there's such a thing as municipal authority, there's such a thing as municipal property, there shouldn't be any government going through that. We should respect local governments, not sacrifice, but help. But what am I thinking when I say that the government is accusing the municipalities? There have been examples from many speakers in certain cities, and it is certain that even opposition or pro-government representatives sitting here can give examples. In Gyöngyös's case, the amount that the state takes away from the municipality is about 700 million forints. They were glad to hear that they were helping by 300 million, by the way, which is not enough for expenses, and there are tasks to be released. But to illustrate, this nearly 30,000-dollar city received 300 million, two hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros in Mátra, and received 1.9 billion for renovation, with a group downsizing before that. Now I could ask you where the logic is. Obviously, I have the logic from your direction, from the government's point of view, but I'd rather say it's unfair, unfair to people. But I want to talk to you about other areas. You've been ruling by two-thirds since 2010. The minimum pension amount, 28 500 HUF, has been intact since 2008. The current 0.6 percent pension compensation means that this is 171 HUF for these people. If you look at an OECD survey comparing average earnings to minimum pensions, then Hungary is at the end of the line. We have been down 13 years, it will be 14 years next year that the minimum pension has not been touched, if the 28 500 forints were raised to 80 thousand, and otherwise the comparison with the average wage and the minimum pension would come out, then we would be at the level of Brazil. And I did not mean to hurt Brazil, but rather to point out how low the Hungarian minimum pension is. They haven't touched the family allowance since 2008. There have been a number of family-related and supportive programmes under your governance, which you must acknowledge, no matter whether you look at it from a pro-government or from a opposition side. [[17.50]] Just as we must also agree that families, child planning and child rearing should be supported. It is the family allowance that will surely reach all families who have children. You haven't touched this since 2008. Let me mention, I started with local government: the wages of public workers are just over 50 thousand forints. Let me note here that the Prime Minister said a few weeks ago that we have always said that as many jobs as the crisis has destroyed, the epidemic has destroyed, we will create the same, but that is not true, because we will create more than that, because public work is available in unlimited quantities. Secretary of State, last year's budget and this year's budget were planned for HUF 165 billion for a public work programme, in the next year's budget 120. That's less, I think we can agree on that. Thus, even the public works programme is not available in unlimited quantities. By the way, I think that these people, public workers, should be dealt with in a humiliating way for humiliatingly low wages by the municipalities. I believe that's appropriate for you because you're squeezing your shoulders. Yes, this HUF 53-54,000 is very humiliating, and there is no family to support. These people should be valued, given jobs, but they should be paid in addition to the work, not 53,000 forints. If you guys shake their heads, you might want to try that. The guaranteed minimum wage was also mentioned. Allow me, Mr Secretary of State, the question of the guaranteed minimum wage can be praised or not praised. Obviously, that means, by the way, drawing that line is minimal, but under this, you can't look for public sector workers. However, it is difficult for municipalities to manage this in many cases. I'll also transfer back to 2008. As of 2008, the civil servant's salary base has not changed, which is still HUF 38 650. In the present draft, the chapter statement states that you are giving the municipality the opportunity to deviate from this, as before. Well, thank you very much for the municipalities. They're not asking for the opportunity, they're asking for your cover to raise. It's been 13 years, almost 14 years, that hasn't changed. I would like to say, however, that I was mayor, that if there were to be a minimum percentage increase of 10-20-30 percent, that would not be a solution; much more serious compensation and consideration is needed, because this stipend is so far behind. Believe me, with all due respect to the legislator, I must also say that the countryside of Budapest cannot be seen. Many of my country colleagues, whether they are pro-government or opposition, are sure to be able to confirm that Hungary and Hungary of the countryside are almost heaven and earth. I ask you and everyone with the utmost respect that, when planning such a project, they really ask the opinion of either the local government associations or any other professional organisation, how they see it, because believe that they are the ones who are aware of it, because they are there every day. If I may, I would conclude by saying that, in terms of municipalities, in the last ten years, I have been a local government official in all national and international forums, the local government must be maintained, not impossible, because it is also impossible for them that low salaries in municipal workers encourage these people to leave this course and there is no replacement. The municipalities are needed, because not only can you see them from the county seat or from the district centre, but you can't really see their problems from Budapest. They're not trying to help you from there, and especially not the mayors, the settlements, and maybe that's the key word for not supporting the mayor, but the settlement. The reason we need the settlement is because otherwise it doesn't matter that there is a pro-government or opposition voter, that Hungarian voter, and he deserves all due respect and respect. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2021-05-19-88	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. Mr László György, State Secretary, would like to take the floor. I give you the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-19-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Lords! Mr. Secretary of State! I welcome you with respect and affection. I would just like to comment very briefly on what has just been said, what has just been said. However, there are significant differences between crisis management after 2008 and 2020 and economic protection. After 2008, the 13th month pension was taken, the left-wing government took it; now, in the spirit of economic protection, the current government is returning the 13th month pension. The second is that, as part of the crisis management after 2008, the Hungarian employment rate in the European Union has fallen to its last place, the unemployment rate has risen to 12 percent. Now the fourth best unemployment rate is the Hungarian across the European Union [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] And the unemployment rate is below 4 percent. These are Eurostat data (Gergely Arató intervenes) So they have to be accounted for if someone doesn't think it's credible. The third is that the promise made by the Prime Minister has been fulfilled by the government that we will create more jobs than the virus will destroy. Based on the statistics adopted by the European Union, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office has been working 16 500 more jobs created by entrepreneurs in March 2021 than before the crisis when employment was highest. We also provided an opportunity for 200,000 people to participate in public employment instead of 100,000. Nevertheless, the Hungarians decided not to use this option. We are proud that we have been able to help entrepreneurs create jobs in the primary labour market. The Hungarian labour market was not in crisis, but transformed. After the crisis, 33,000 more people are working in the information technology sector with greater added value and thus higher wages. This is supported by the statistics produced by the Central Statistical Office based on the statistics of the European Union, which say that the wage mass, i.e. the total wage mass that workers are earning, has increased by 8 percent in the last year. And then another analysis, this is also available on portfolio.hu. According to Bisnode's analysis, in 2020 the number of businesses that would end in liquidation and bankruptcy was 50 percent less than in 2019. So the economic protection measures that helped businesses with a cheap zero-rate loan, the measures that, under the Investment Control Act, prevented foreigners from buying valuable Hungarian businesses, led to a goal, and these companies were able to survive. Allow me one more thought. Indeed, by the end of the year in Scotland, workers there received 80% without working. There is a global company that employs me in Scotland and also in Hungary. In Scotland, 30 percent of the jobs were terminated; in Hungary, he kept his employees, because the economic protection action plan was effective, because the Hungarian economy is competitive. It is now preparing to increase its employment here by 20 percent this year, and double its revenues and its added value in Hungary over the next two years. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-19-90	Thank you very much, Mr László György State Secretary. István Hollik, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, spoke in advance.
u2021-05-19-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! Obviously, the budget before us, like all budgets, has basically its objective, mission and task to respond to the most important challenges facing us. Sometimes there's more of that. [[18.00]] Today we can mention quite clearly one challenge, and this is the economic crisis caused by the corona virus and the corona virus. On the scale of this, Mr State Secretary has already spoken, and he has shown that many of us may not feel this way, but it is a deeper crisis than the economic crisis in 2008-09. If this is the most important challenge, the crisis, the exit from the crisis, then the most important thing is how to restart the economy after such a crisis, how to restart life, and there is a very strong response in this budget. I would like to point out in the beginning of my speech that it is worth watching, because there have been some crises in Hungary since the change of regime, the types of crisis management that governments have applied, how they reacted to these crises, what budgets have been created at the time. We can also distinguish between two types of crises. One is an internal crisis, when external causes and global economic causes cannot be found, and the other is essentially due to external causes. In Hungary, there were both types of crises. We have also experienced that both crises have unfortunately affected Hungary by the fact that they were socialist governments and could see how they reacted to this. The recipe was always the same: increasing public revenues, i.e. embracing businesses, people and families. There was the first crisis, which was essentially due to internal reasons, to which the answer was the Bokros package. At that time, the operation of the state was enormous because Congressman Arató's bosses, Ferenc Gyurcsány's bosses, privatized the country, robbed the country, transferred it to foreign companies, this situation, and a million jobs were destroyed, a million people lost their jobs, and the operation of the state was broken; it had to be stabilized somehow. What was left-wing crisis management then? Pack of bushes, clamps, clamps, clamps. I'm telling you, this was a crisis that was caused by internal causes. Then there was the financial crisis in the 2008-09 world economy, which, although not caused by Hungary, we should add that Hungary was hit in a very weak and weakened state, but the crisis on the left was exactly the same. Cutbacks, taking 13 months' pensions, reducing sick pay, taking salaries. What was the result of these austerity-based, focused crisis management? The fact that the crisis has not been resolved anywhere has often deepened. If we look at the 2008-09 crisis, for example, we can see that while the European Union's GDP decreased by 4.3 percent in 2009, Hungary's left-wing... [[Gergely Arató: That's not what the Secretary of State said! At least make a deal.]] With the austerity of the left-wing government, more than 6 percent of GDP had to be reduced. These are facts, Congressman, you know that. So the austerity policy that your boss conducted didn't bring any results. What has resulted from the fact that the Hungarian economy has been hit significantly more by the crisis than by the European Union as a whole, i.e. by the richer countries? This is reflected in unemployment. What was the result of your austerity-based crisis management policy? It is that 200,000 jobs have been lost; not for a short time, but for a long time, which had to be re-established after 2010. So we can say that, since the change of regime, there has not been a crisis that has not been dealt with by the current left-wing government with austerity. We are now in a crisis that the Fidesz-KDNP government is finally looking to tackle with a completely different approach, and it says that we can quickly emerge from the crisis and even be the winners of the relaunch of the European economy if we do not bring austerity but support families, businesses, people and pensioners. This is a completely different approach. I understand the left-wing crooks who say that this is not going to work, but I always recall it when the Fidesz-KDNP government said that we will build a work-based economy and society where the budget deficit will not go away otherwise, it will remain below 3 percent [[Gergely Harvesto: Did you manage?]] , economic growth will increase beyond the EU average and, moreover, the number of jobs will increase. Smart left-wing economists say it's impossible, you can't do that. I can either boost the economy or increase the number of jobs, but then the budget will go away, which means reducing public debt, starting growth and keeping the budget disciplined, that's not possible at the same time, that's impossible. And then you did it. We are now in the same way that we are here at the meeting of budget 22 and the left-wing Members have already given a verdict, they have called off the match, they have said that this must have failed now. This position is a little credible, honourable left-wing colleagues. Because the reality of what you claim is that the re-launch budget contains an unprecedented economic re-launch action plan, a package that is at 13 per cent of GDP. It can be said that Minister also said in the expozee that every sector, if we look at the budget in detail, each sector can farm from more resources than it did last year. What are the key points of the support I spoke about, which is the basis of the budget? The first is support for families. Here we have to see that support for families is increasing compared to last year, but while left-wing governments spent HUF 934 billion in support of families in 2010, this amount is now HUF 1842 billion, nearly HUF 1000 billion more. We can now say that Hungary spends it in proportion to its GDP, spends one of the most to support families, so that those who want to have children should not be a problem of money and livelihood. The second key point of this budget is the re-launch of the economy, and here I have already mentioned the economic re-launch action plan, which is at 13% of GDP. It is very telling that when there is trouble, the left-wingers put new burdens on the shoulders of the elderly, on the elderly who are the least able to respond to the difficult situation, yet they took away the 13th month pension. The Fidesz-KDNP government is starting to rebuild the 13th month pension right here during the crisis period, and next year, pensioners can receive a 13th month pension for two weeks. And then we didn't talk about the fact that, if those figures are fulfilled, and this is usually the experience of the last ten years, even if my fellow left-wing Members don't like it, and they tend to forget that what is written in the budget is usually the case, so if there is an economic growth such as the Ministry of Finance and this budget proposal anticipates, pensioners can count on a pension premium, as there will be a rather large economic growth, significantly higher than the average of the European Union. And then there's the next important point in the budget, that's the under 25-year-olds' absence. [[18.10]] So, when we are in a difficult situation, let's tell young people to start working, and the government will help us to ensure that young people are free in 25 years. Then the reduction of the employer's tax burden is very important. The number of jobs, unemployment and employment rates have already been mentioned here. What was below the EU average during left-wing governments is employment, and now it is significantly above it. This was due to a policy that has continuously reduced labour taxes. It's going on right now. In next year's budget, taxes on work leave HUF 113 billion in business. The 6th important point in the budget is to support jobs and investment. Here I think that, obviously, next year's budget will come next year, that we have to recall that the Hungarian crisis management has already been different here, in so far as Mr László György referred to this, it was different from the crisis management in other countries, that while there was only a focus on keeping jobs, the Hungarian government said that there is now a chance to invest in Hungary. Otherwise, in a crisis-free period, there is a killing battle for investment. However, the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian state, has now been in such a situation and is able to allocate resources for investment promotion. So the promotion of investment is a very important and essential point of this budget, and we can see that just in the middle of the crisis, at the end of last year, if I remember correctly, an unprecedented investment was announced by the government in Iváncsa for more than HUF 600 billion. This policy is the one that will restart Hungary and the Hungarian economy and will succeed, and I think that there is no excessive expectation of this budget, our expectation is that thanks to this budget, the Hungarian economy will be the winner of the relaunch of the European economy, and we can say again that we are on the path of growth that is characterised by the fact that Hungary's growth is at least twice as big as the average of the European Union. To sum up, I must say that, of course, KDNP will support this budget, because it will finally manage an economic crisis for the first time since the change of regime, unlike the Bokros package and the austerity crisis on the left in 2008-9, with grants. Klára Dobrev said in an honest moment that they managed to save the banks in 2008-9, but they failed to save the people. That's left-wing crisis management. We have not chosen this path, not the austerity crisis, but Hungary wants to come out of this crisis by providing support for families, businesses and workers, and I think that we will achieve Hungary's success in relaunching the European economy. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-92	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. The next announced speaker had less than four and a half minutes. Here comes notary Gergely Arató, representative of DK.
u2021-05-19-93	Thank you very much. It is very instructive to listen to the successive pro-government contributions, with few exceptions, because you talk very little about this budget, talk very little about this year, and talk a lot about 2008 and 94 or 95, I think, and I think it was the Bokros package. I have to say that this shows that you have nothing to say to the present and do not dare to talk about what is really in this budget. They dare not speak of the fact that this budget is actually good for a few people, your moonyard, your friends, your relatives and your business partners, and not for the country. You know, Mr. Secretary, this is Congressman Dudás inviting you to small villages, but I am telling Mr. Secretary of State that you do not have to go to small villages, get on the subway, go to the terminal in Kőbánya-Kispest, and tell people there that the labour market has not been in crisis, it has only transformed. Tell that to people who have been out of work for six months or a year, who have been working part-time for a fraction of the money, who are now employed black or gray instead of their former job as commissioners. Tell them to run quickly after, because they'll have an opinion. You know, if we ask people and we don't use these statistics, from which you obviously can forge and produce unlimited numbers, if this is necessary, they're going to tell us what it's like to live in those panel houses, and not only in panel houses, but in old condos, which cannot be renovated, they don't ask for EU funds, and they don't provide domestic resources, what it's like to live in houses where the street is heated with expensive money, where the elevator is bad, the garbage disposal is bad, where the apartments are ruined, because somehow they can't fit into state subsidies, or even if they can afford millions of self-pay. Go to those people and tell them that it's all right for people who have to wait six months for surgery, a year, who have to wait for tests for two or three months in the clinics, who don't have a doctor or nurse, because you're so good at managing health care. Tell the pensioners, who, by the way, have been fooled with hundreds of thousands of forints in recent years by eliminating the Swiss indexation, when the wage increase was much higher than inflation. Tell them that now that they're giving two weeks' pension more next year, they've solved all their problems, and with today's HUF 800 pension increase, they're over all their problems. Tell those people who can't pay the electricity bill and the gas bill, because they have to decide whether to pay a bill or eat, that you, by the way, will fix everything. Or tell the families whose salary has doubled since 2008, since then their family allowance has not been increased by a penny, so that they have all the problems solved. Other things are important to you: from the World Hunting Exhibition to the hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros, but they are important to us: pensioners, families, people living in difficult queues, people living in condominiums and panel houses. We're going to submit modifications that will help them. I will also resubmit my amendments to the Stone Mine and Kispest. They've been wiped out in the past few years. Say no to them. Say no if you dare not to renovate the Kőbánya-Kispest train station, say if you dare not to renovate the Kőbánya-Kispest station, say that you do not need to renovate the Kőbánya-Kispest station, say, if you dare, that there is no need for otherwise high traffic city roads Kőér utca, Ady Endre út, Üllői út do not have to cross the railway with a shortcut or a surface crossing, and do not have to stand there every now and then. Come over here and tell these people. Tell them that there is no need for further renovation of the health centre in Kispesten, to continue with this. Say you're gonna take the money from the local authorities, and that's why you're not getting on the road. That's what they say, but get in front of them. It's easy to hide behind statistics here in Parliament. There, people in Stone Mine and Kispesten know what their lives are like, and they know what kind of help they get from this government. I'll tell you: none. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. There is no two-minute application, so I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, Member of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Mónika Bartos.
u2021-05-19-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a general debate on the 2022 budget for several hours, and I believe that my fellow members of the Government agree that this budget is the budget for the re-launch of the country. As I see it, as we approach the end of a pandemic, it is very important to group our resources so that we can focus them on the segments where most people are reached and accessible to most people, and they can help most people. [[18.20]] Thus, as many of my fellow Members have already said, the government is trying to put a great deal of resources into job creation, economic recovery, family support, support for pensioners, health care and higher education. These are just headlines, and I've just mentioned the most important ones. And, as Minister, unfortunately, the pandemic has hit our economy at a very successful stage and has resulted in a halt. At the same time, this is very positive, as a strong economy can respond more dynamically to changes in its environment, as we have seen in the response capacity of the Hungarian economy, as there was a resource for the largest economic rescue package in Hungary's history, there was a resource for defence, for strengthening those involved in defence, and for the acquisition and rapid acquisition of tools, as we could see that Hungary reacted more dynamically than Western European countries, which helped this defence. As my fellow Members have said, in the Economic Restart Action Plan, 7300 million Forints will be available to restore the economy to development as quickly as possible. At the same time, these improvements would be useless if we did not defend ourselves against the dangers that could befall our country with the coronal virus epidemic. As a member of the Defence and Police Committee, I took part in a V4 meeting last week in which the committees dealing with defence and security policy took part, and the participants paid serious attention to the fact that, with the relief of the coronal virus epidemic, once the crisis has passed, we will again have to anticipate the strengthening of migration flows. After all, the good weather has come, the improved vaccination rates in Western countries and the gradual lifting of restrictions are all affecting the increase in the rate of illegal migration. This was also seen when the first wave subsided, and then several illegal migrants were illegally trying to get into our country. This meant a total of 46 179 people in 2020 and 126 people on average per day. While if you look at the first few months, the first third of this year, then the number is already 30,433, so on average, 254 people tried to cross our borders illegally on a daily basis. And if you look at the first half of the two years, the data of the first few spring months, you cannot expect that this trend will decrease next year. As has been said many times, on the Western Balkan routes, which pose the greatest risk to us, it does not help the situation of nearly 100,000 illegal immigrants in Greece, and there are significant masses in the Greek-Turkish border, in the area of Turkey. And we saw in 2015 what it meant when a hundred thousand migration waves were launched in Hungary. And it has to be said, because this V4 meeting also meant that illegal migration, which is taking place in masses, is also dangerous because it gives terrorist organisations the opportunity to bring their fighters to areas that were previously peaceful. These radicals are also using these countries to prepare for each attack as a refuge, and we have seen an example in Western European countries. Therefore, if we look at what is important and what we should do, it must be pointed out that Hungary's primary national security and national economy interest is to ensure security in Central and Eastern Europe and to guarantee stability in the region, and therefore to eliminate illegal migration and break the business model of smugglers is crucial to us. We need to do this outside the EU, in close cooperation with neighbouring third countries, and we need to improve it because it does not work differently for the issuing countries. This is why it was an important element of the V4 conference that we will continue to take joint action to support the Western Balkan and North African countries with the comprehensive assistance that we are already doing. It can be said that EU migration policy will not appear in the near future in a single situation, in the form of a single opinion, as the European Commission presented its new draft, the new Pact on Migration and Asylum in September 2020, but it is expected that the various foreign and internal policy interests of each country will result in prolonged coordination. Therefore, now and in the near future, the protection of our borders and our external borders will guarantee security. Therefore, if we look at the 2022 budget in this respect, we can see that the budget pays particular attention to defence and public security objectives: both to the protection of migration and to the elimination of anti-terrorist measures, and that, with the approval of the government, appropriations can continue to be exceeded. If you look at the budget chapters of the Ministry of Interior, then you can see that the wallet is a priority for cybersecurity-informatics developments. This is very, very important, because people smugglers and terrorists rely heavily on today's modern infocommunication channels in their activities, and if we invest more resources in this area, the number of reconnaissances is increasing and we can achieve greater success in this area. At the same time, cyber attacks pose a threat and risk, and it is in our primary interest to protect our strategic information systems from these attacks. It is important to underline and already Mr Simicskó, Head of Group, mentioned that the resources necessary to ensure additional benefits for the professional staff of law enforcement bodies and to achieve the next pace of the increase in the salary of law enforcement staff are also available. These people, who work every day to guarantee our safety, it is very important to appreciate them. Of course, we have budgetary constraints, but what we need to see and stress is that the next steps of the salary increase programmes that started in previous years can be implemented and thus make these careers predictable. If we also consider that family support instruments, family tax incentives, are also available, then I believe that the proper livelihood of law enforcement employees is ensured. If we move on to the issue of defence, we will continue to take the path that started in previous years, as in 2022, as a percentage of GDP will be determined, as in recent years, taking into account NATO's recommendations. So this will be available in the same way as in previous years. This will allow the continuation of the software for defence and military development in Zrínyi 2026. This includes improvements, modernisation of military equipment and improvement of the equipment and accommodation conditions of personnel. It can be said that there are very few NATO countries that want to modernise force development in such a short period of time and in such a wide spectrum. With this, the Hungarian Defence Office is completely renewed, and it is important to stress that the main focus of modernization is on man himself, the soldier. [[18.30]] So both the development of training and education systems and the career model, we want to help the career development of soldiers. Another important element, as mentioned by my fellow Member Simicskó, is the strengthening of the pillar of military technology in this sector, which includes the acquisition and deployment of modern tools and research and development. Yesterday, my fellow Members saw the news, as Prime Minister received the leaders of Rheinmetall, during which, in the framework of the agreement with this company, the establishment of one of the world's most modern infantry fighting vehicles will be launched in Zalaegerszeg. Similar results are the purchase of Turkish armoured military vehicles and the agreement on domestic production, but we have also made major improvements in the field of anti-aircraft missile systems and in the field of aviatics. It is a very important aspect for us that our country wants to become a determining factor in peace and security in the region. We cannot do this differently, because our country is on an important migration route in the Western Balkans and that this region preserves its stability and that stability is guaranteed, it is in our important interests and the interests of the European Union. I see that the objectives set by the government with the strengthening of families, job creation and the relaunching of the economy can be achieved mainly because the next year's budget also provides adequate resources for defence measures. After all, other efforts would be useless if Hungary's public security or freedom and sovereignty were to be compromised. As Minister of Finance Mihály Varga said in his exposé, the amount for defence will be increased by 30 percent in 2022, i.e. by 30 percent compared to the resources of 21, and this represents a quadruple increase compared to 2010. The resources allocated to defence are two-and-a-half times higher than the 2010 Fund. So it is important to note that after the year 2020 which has been hit by a pandemic, 2021, we have a good hope for 2022, which will be the year for Hungary's relaunch, and the processes have already started and will continue next year. Thank you very much for your attention, fellow Members and for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-96	Thank you very much, Mónika Bartos. The next announced speaker was Mr Csaba Gyüre, Mr Jobbik.
u2021-05-19-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, With regard to the fiscal law, we have heard a lot of good news about pensioners on the government side, and we have heard almost glad times: the restoration of the 13th month pension, the inflation-following pension system, the real-value pension system and similar terms. I would like to nuance this image, that it is not so good, and there is another side of this coin, which is much darker and much worse, and that is not you, we are not living it, but pensioners who are at home waiting for a small pension and are trying to make a living from it. What's the problem with that? There are a number of problems here, especially the removal of mixed indexation is an important problem, which has contributed to the continued strong opening of scissors between the scale of wages and the size of pensions, and I already understand this in summary terms, and it keeps getting further and further away from each other. We can also say this in concrete figures, but it is clear that in 2010 the average net income was 65.1 percent of the average pension, while in 2019 this fell to 51.8 percent. I think it's an amazing number, how much the pension and the wage are separated, and so obviously, in the value of the customer, that means a lot. But I would also like to mention a topic for which the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has been fighting for 12 years, and we are constantly bringing it up in the budget and anyway, and this is the possibility for men to retire after forty years of employment, so that men can have the same opportunity that women get. When it was introduced for women, we fought to ensure that there was no difference between men and women, and that this should apply equally to everyone. The creation of a flexible pension system and retirement on the basis of the years would also be very important, which is why this possibility should also be brought back. I know that this ball is constantly being discarded by the government, even though it would not cost much more, we expect it to cost about HUF 150 billion if we introduced this retirement opportunity for men. We see that the number and proportion of men among pensioners is much lower, so this would affect far less men than women, so I think it should be introduced in any way. Also, considering that there are a lot of work areas where a 60-year-old, 62-year-old man can't do that physical work and can't do it, and that's why he gets out of the labour market, so he can get unemployment benefits, which is uniquely short in Hungary and provides a small amount, applies to 90 days, and then he can either get social benefits or work in the community. I think, and here I have been told several times that there is a public service programme, and they can find their place there, that anyone who has worked 40-42 years of honest work, and who has had a HUF 300-350 income, goes back to work every day for 50,000 forints, and will also be able to determine his pension, I think that no one would want this to reach him and catch him up. That is why we should let these people retire somewhat more dignified. Since the average age of men is much shorter than that of women, this would obviously amount to much less in the budget, much less plus than the 40 plus of women. I think that it is important to introduce this in both sexes, and obviously to maintain it in women, and to introduce it in men. Then the 13th month's pension came to mind that it was taken by the Bajnai government in 2009. I've asked you here once before, but I'm going to ask you again what prevented the Orbán government from returning this in 2010, if you thought it was a massive terrorist attack on the pensioners, that it was taken from them. Then what stopped you? In 2009, the Bajnai government took a semester, a second semester, in the first half of 2010, the Orbán government could have given it back to you, and in the first half of 2010, the Orbán government would have been able to give you a pension of 12 months, which means that you have taken more than one year's pension from pensioners if you think this 13th month pension was illegally taken from you at the time, and that would have been due to the pensioners. If we reverse that logic and project it on you, you've taken a year's pension from the pensioners. And that's a fact that they didn't give it back, so you took it away. Similarly, pensioners have fallen from a very serious amount with the Swiss indexation, as you are indeed raising pensions in line with the inflation rate of the HCSO, with official inflation, but not the inflation rate of the pension basket, the pension basket should be compiled differently, because the inflation rate for pensioners has been much higher in recent years, and yet I also dispute that the value-proofness of pensions would have remained. [[18.40]] However, if the mixed indexation were to be introduced again in Hungary, it would mean that, on the basis of the increase in wages, the increase in wages would increase pensions by 50% or some percentage and would therefore be taken into account. Otherwise, it makes perfect sense, because on the basis of increased wages, more goes into the pension fund, so this would be the basis for covering the re-introduction of the mixed indexation in Hungary. The same problem is the issue of differentiated pension increases. This is also a shocking thing, that we have reached Hungary and reached the point by 2020 that there is almost a hundred times the multiplier between the smallest and the largest pensions. It's a shocking thing. There are huge differences. Obviously, one does not want to bring back the principles of equality of socialism, but I think that we should also have some sort of differentiated pension increase here, and that is something the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has always said here in Parliament. Increasing the percentage of low pensions would be an important issue that should be achieved. Then, if we're going to tell you how good the situation of pensioners is, I'd like to point out another side of the medal again. In 2010, 11.2 percent of Hungarian GDP was spent on pensions. Today this figure is 8.3 percent. So this means that the budget for pensioners has decreased by a quarter of GDP. So I'm gonna say it again: it's down from 11.2 percent to 8.3 percent. I think it's a shocking number. This shows how unfair the pension system has been implemented here in Hungary since 2010 by the Orbán government, and one of the consequences of this has been that more than 500 thousand pensioners live below the living threshold today. Today, this threshold is about 100,000 forints, and today more than 500 thousand pensioners in Hungary have lower incomes. Many people here have already talked about how much minimum pension is today, the 28 500 forints, and so on. So, obviously, these are the amounts to be touched that need to be changed. We may need to separate the minimum pension, separate it from the calculation of the basic amount of the other social benefits, give a separate figure so as not to link this up, but it is absolutely necessary to raise the minimum pension to a very serious extent, and to remove this 500 000 pensioners from the standing water they are in, where they really have to fight for their daily livelihood. I think it's a shame for a man who's worked 30-40-50 years that he can't even fix his food or his overhead from what he's getting. I would also like to draw attention to this, and this is the difference between the parts of the country in the pension system. While, for example, a year ago in Budapest, the average pension in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County was 121 thousand forints, this is obviously due to the fact that average earnings are also much higher in the capital than in North-East Hungary. Unfortunately, the problem is that this trend has only increased in recent years, and these scissors will only open up and cause more and more problems in the retirement society. I think that we should not sound happy about the pension system for the last 12 years, but take seriously the requests of pensioners and sit down and do what is possible from this. I would very much ask that the government take these criticisms and proposals into account in the future. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-98	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that Mr István Simicskó, Head of Group, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has renounced the remaining time frame of the group in the debate for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I ask our staff to modify the timeframes as announced. [[It's happening.]] The next announced speaker was Gábor Riz, representative of Fidesz.
u2021-05-19-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Slowly in the evening, I will begin my own comment with a perhaps unexpected turn. Among the keynote speeches, among other things, the government side is so critical that we are simply traitors to the country. It has been said about how Chinese influence is strengthened through the planned Fudan University towards Hungary. I would like to quote a classic thinker, a former and current fellow Member. The University of Fudan is a magnet that can attract students and teachers and professors from many parts of the world with a very good knowledge and otherwise a good payable background. The Fudanon Nobel Prize winners teach, a truly sparkling international life is taking place. All we hear about Fudan at home is that it's in the spirit of the communist doctrine to teach and live there, that's far from the case. So the Chinese scientific and university world is much more enlightened. This can only be for Hungary, by the way. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I will tell you who the person was: István Ujhelyi, who told these thoughts in the news of ATV Day on 22 April 2021. I suggest that the fellow Members still in opposition ranks take over his thoughts, and perhaps in this way they will review the possibilities of Fudan University in Hungary. Dear fellow Members, During the discussion of Hungary's draft budget law, a few preliminary points should be allowed. Many aspects have been mentioned regarding the international perception of the Hungarian economy, Hungary, and I would like to contribute to the whole picture with some of the little things that may be important to all of us. We know that Hungary is an open economy towards the European economy and primarily with German orientation, but with economic relations and trade relations to countless other European countries. It is a pleasure for us that credit rating agencies that periodically rate Hungary in terms of debt, economic development, economic performance are less focused on the opposition press, since they say good things about the country. We also know that it was one of the opinions of the past period that BBB left Fitch Hungary's prospects for the next period, and from 2021 it will put the Hungarian economy back on track. This was confirmed by Standard & Poor, which also left the Hungarian classification unchanged and declared the prospects of the Hungarian economy stable at a similar level. This was confirmed by the news released the day before yesterday, that according to the GDP figures of the first quarter, the Hungarian economy started 2021 well beyond expectations, increasing by 1.9 percent compared to the last quarter of the previous year, reducing our deficit from GDP rates. It is also important to say that leading analysts, such as one of ING's leading analysts, who said that the first quarterly GDP growth and the moderate annual decline, also mean that the Hungarian economy could achieve its performance earlier than expected, before the summer. Dear fellow Members, This clearly means that the Hungarian economy is in good shape. It also means that the Hungarian government planned well when, after investing, it tried to protect the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian worker. He protected him primarily because we know that if there's work, there's everything. Where there is income, we can pay taxes, and where taxes are paid, the local government, the country's tax policy and a lot of other things, which are also used to provide services, will be replaced. [[18.50]] It is also very important to know that Hungary is at the forefront of Europe with these numbers. It is also important to know that one of the most important items in the 2022 budget is that HUF 7308 billion is available within the framework of the economic re-launch action plan. Our growth is based on three pillars: the exploitation of existing labour reserves will support further growth in employment, thus increasing production capacity, increasing investment and technological and green investment to improve efficiency in the coming years. I came from Borsod, the 3rd constituency of Borsod, which covers 71 settlements, and in the western part of Borsod 71 settlements with Ózd headquarters recently presented such sad news to the public that a company, a group of companies that had been operating there for more than twenty years, closed its operation and allowed some 900 employees to walk the streets. Shortly thereafter, a new announcement was received for a six-month period, which said that in September this year another multi-company will close in Ózd, which will add 750 more sad statistics to the unemployment figures in the region. However, I am happy and proud to say that the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, reacting very quickly, immediately started looking for a partner in Hungary, preferably a capitalised Hungarian company, which could absorb the labour force that had been laid off at the first pace, so that 900 people who had been sent at the end of this year would be able to get a job in a short way. This is how he found the company Wellis, which will ensure 800 people's employment by the end of next year, with state support worth HUF 8 billion. Let me also be proud to say that, with the help of the two ministries mentioned, we are preparing and preparing an economic package for Oz and its region that is based on several pillars: it is based on the need for a change in the disadvantage that is part of the infrastructure that is physical infrastructure, on the other hand, the lack of or the possibility of human resources, and, on the other hand, the possible economic integrations built on each other that can make this region more effective in the future. Well, the first main idea is that the accessibility of the region must be such that it is possible to get from A to B in a normal way at European level. Therefore, it is very important that roads 23 and 25, which approach Ózd from the 21st, that is to say from the Nógrád section, will receive a new asphalt surface from the next year, from the end of this year, and in several settlements it will increase its approach by about 15 minutes. Another important thing is that from the direction of Miskolc, which also approaches Putnok and Ózd in Sajószentpéter in part of the county's industrial region, avoiding Kazincbarcika, it also expands with a bypassing phase, which will be physically implemented from the second half of this year to the beginning of 2022 with the completion of public procurement. So both Ozd and the region will be available faster in two directions. It is also important to say that in connection with road and logistics, we are also working on a development at the moment with the Ministry of Innovation, which allows the construction of a truck terminal for approximately 150-170 trucks a day, which is the one that was installed as part of the economic development package by Wellis, the developed Ozdi Steel Works Ltd. and satisfy the needs of the remaining three companies that are established there, obviously, under the technological conditions expected under Article XXI. In the century. Part of the economic package is how we can prepare human resources for the challenges that are obviously the required and the technology used. Well, Wellis works with robotics and creates a modern production chain like the one you see in big car manufacturers, where the semi-finished product moves to the status of the finished product, while teams turn each other into finished products and put together everything that comes out of there. This requires people who can handle this technology and are able to ensure further effectiveness for this company, because at the moment Wellis has strong external economic relations and has internationally recognised products and a family of products. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Similarly, it is very important that Ózdi Steel Works Ltd., in which the Hungarian State has 20 percent ownership right now, can go through further development opportunities, how we can manage the XXI. Rewording the Hungarian steel industry and its products in the first century. Ozd is one of these raw materials producers, specialized in the production of concrete steel, which, as far as possible, expands with a new line of products that can be added to this fund, capable of producing products of a different size, which is the basis for domestic construction at any start-up investment. Well, we also need to prepare the necessary workforce in a clearly reinforced form from the next period. However, it is also very important that the government decision will help the Aicher group with HUF 650 million to develop a brownfield industrial area on its own, where concrete plant, container manufacturer and the recently introduced Hunnoid Midibus, with an electric drive chain, is planned to provide opportunities for small and medium-sized cities that want to protect their environment with low emissions, and yet deliver cost-effectively the locals and passengers who are interested there. It is also important to say that the aim of development is both for ministries and for local economic professionals to try to get our options from raw materials to finished products by developing the product chain, precisely so that in the event of a crisis, if the raw material falls beyond the borders, we can minimise the risk of this and, if possible, put the finished product out as fully as possible at the shortest possible stage. I mentioned how we should and can develop infrastructure for the prepared workforce. One is the middle level of vocational training and the other is higher education. The University of Miskolc is already in Ozd through training, and the Ministry of Innovation plans to create a knowledge centre, develop a laboratory background and involve the companies operating there, to develop a legal situation and status, where technological developments will take place along common interests, without a laboratory and without the knowledge centre, which can not be created under the spiritual background of the University of Miskolc. I have one last inspiration that is important to us, since for a long time this area has not been mentioned in relation to tourism. Aggtelek and the Bükk National Park were mentioned as a Hungarian tourist destination until Szilvásvarad, but the region of Ózd, the reservoir of Rakaca, Szendrő, the valley of Bodva is being introduced as a new concept, and we also see that the 2022 budget has a major chapter in the development of Hungarian tourism services and attractions. So it is very important for us, too, that with the support of some HUF 418 million at the first stage, the complete design documentation will be prepared by our domestic water company, our company, the North Hungarian Regional Waterworks, the result of which is that there will be a complete water paradise, obviously extending the proximity of the Aggtelek National Park with the opportunities that are already available to nature lovers. The Estramos Cave, which has also received the title via ferrata, is already on the tourism landscape as an opportunity and an area to be developed. As a last thought, please allow me to say that Ozd, which was certainly not mentioned as a tourist destination, we are also included with the so-called Digital Power Plant and the Film History Experience Park, which, in addition to receiving international recognition for the rehabilitation of some of the former metallurgical core factory buildings, but besides the new, formulated content, there are new tourist opportunities in it, and from the opening, more than 80,000 people have visited this institution, and its attractions are becoming more and more widely known. [[19.00]] For my part, because this budget contains the said items, which I mentioned as an economic package, as a tourism opportunity, on the expenditure side of the budget, I propose that we adopt the draft budget for 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, I welcome my fellow Members. We will continue with the speeches. Mr Lajos Korózs, from the MSZP Group, will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-101	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. President. I don't think it's surprising, but I want to deal with pensions in terms of the budget. It is worth checking this professional area every year when the budget is presented and the accounts are closed. I also think that a number of my opposition fellow Members have said that when people are in trouble, when there is a crisis, the social network must be woven and not allowed to loot or break up and people fall out of it. As a result, I am saddened to see the continuation of the fiscal policy that the Orbán Cabinet decided in 2010. This is the technique of the inflation-following pension increase, which has failed several times. Just yesterday was proof of it. I know it is not related to this budget law, but the Hungarian Gazette has published a 0.6 percent adjustment for pensions. Of course, we knew precisely last year that the government had underdesigned the budget for this year, and therefore we need to touch this budget from several aspects. Well, here's the 3-percent planned inflation next year, as I look at inflation figures for the last few months, probably won't change for the rest of the year. It is therefore likely that pensions should be supplemented not only on 1 June but also in November. In Hungarian, pensioners this year, as in previous years, have lent loans to the government, and the government subsequently graciously gives a portion of what is due to pensioners. For years, opposition parties have been demanding that we return to the so-called mixed indexation, and even we, socialists, have asked us to return to the Swiss indexation, which, as we know, takes into account the net wage increase of 50 percent and at least 50 percent of the inflation planned. If the government had followed this, pensions wouldn't have been so drastic in the last year. If we look at this budget, we can definitely see two things. One is that if this pension raising technique had been followed by the government, a pension increase of at least 5.3-5.4 percent would have been required in this budget and not 3 percent, since the net wage increase was 7.7 percent. I apologise to those who follow Parliament's mediation to say many numbers and many percentages and rates; this is because we are talking about the budget and we are discussing the budget. Unfortunately, we do not see that they would help the underprivileged, the troubled, because for years there has been a unchanged equity framework in the submitted draft law. For years there has been no increase in the pension-setting framework for equity, which remains HUF 200 million, no increase in the pension-raising framework for equity, which has remained the same as HUF 800 million for years, and no increase in the one-time grant budget, which has been set at HUF 600 million for years. The latter is precisely the one or the equity increase that would best help those in trouble, regardless of whether someone has a low pension now and can resort to an equity increase every three years, or a family tragedy, such as losing a partner at Covid's time, or a serious illness that increases the cost of medicine. Well, a one-time allowance or an equity pension is exactly what you're doing to help those in trouble in a targeted way. Let's look at the pension and the poverty among pensioners. Every year we hear about the submission of the budget that the average pension is now more than 150 thousand forints, or at least 150 thousand forints next year. Well, you shouldn't be surprised, my dear friends, because there are more and more people on high pay who enter the pension system, and consequently this draws up the mathematical center. However, if you look at the median pension, compared to the average pension, which is roughly HUF 150,000 in parentheses that almost two thirds of pensioners do not get the average, the median pension is around HUF 130,000. And if we look at, let's say, the Visegrád Four, where Hungary was also a leader in this area after accession, the lowest pensions in Hungary today are the lowest among the V4s, because the Poles also beat us last year and the Slovaks were ahead of us earlier. That's one thing. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, has mentioned two things here, and I do not want to deal with one, but I do not want to deal with the other. What was the budgetary rate on pensions in proportion to GDP? The Member also mentioned that in 2010 it was 12.2 percent, and in 2019, as we know from the discussion of the closing accounting law, it will be about 8.7 percent, and as I look at next year's draft, it will be about 7.4 percent. Okay, I know exactly that it is possible to achieve an increase in GDP by not increasing GDP while the substitution rate and the exchange rate remain unchanged. But here we were talking about economic growth. I see that, compared to growth, they benefit less from the expansion of the economy in proportion to pensioners than society as a whole. That's one thing. The other thing I mentioned in my intro is how drastic pensions are going to be. This trend has been observed for years, but the drastic shift was after 2017. We are talking about the 2022 budget in five years' time, and what we are seeing is that pensions are being drastically cut off from wages. Several people referred to the 2008 economic crisis. I looked at it exactly, in 2008, in the year of the crisis, almost 70 percent of the average net wage was average pension, 69.1 percent. My dear friends, last year, in the context of the closing accounting law, this 69.1 percent rate has gone down to 51,8 percent. I dare to risk it, my fellow Members, that if we discuss the closing of this year next year, it will be around 50 percent. You see, the average pension has fallen from 70 percent to 50 percent compared to the net average wage; we are talking about net, since pensions do not tax in Hungary. If we look at social security and welfare services in a detailed way, the draft budget law shows the following. Of course, I am saying the consolidated functional expenditure of public finances. The government spends less money, maternity and other disability benefits in next year's budget, and the percentage spent on it is reduced. He's looking for less rest, and in this way he's dropping, from 17.8 to 16.3 percent. Other social security benefits: reduced. Family allowances, children's benefits: decreasing. Social and welfare benefits: decreasing. Other social support: decreasing. There is only one item, other social security benefits, where it is unchanged compared to the previous year. Well, it is no wonder with such fiscal policy that the rate of poverty among pensioners has increased dramatically over the past ten years. In 2010, 4.9 percent of those in the retirement society lived in poverty, and by 2020, this increased by 3 times to 14.8 percent. There is another investigation, carried out by KSH, the Central Statistical Office, last year, where the income tenths of the number of pensioners were examined. In 2010, they were the lowest income tithe, in the first income tenth, those who had the lowest income, and the tenth decylis were those who had the highest income, so 26 thousand of the lowest income tithes were retired in 2010. [[19.10]] This has increased to 270,000 by 2020. There are roughly one million people in one decylis in Hungary, and now there are no more, because there are 9.7 million of us, and there are roughly 970 thousand people in one tenth. In 2010, there were 26 thousand, 270 thousand now. The number of pensioners living in the lowest income tenths has increased by 11 times. As I mentioned in my intro, this 0.6 percent adjustment, look, it's even a joke. It's also a joke, because a minimum retirement pension, I know it's useless to argue about, 28 500 forints slowly for 13 years now, it's unnecessary to argue that many or few, 28 500 forints cannot be allocated for a month. It doesn't matter where we push it. 171 forints? That's all there is to this June adjustment with a minimum old-age pension? They give me a pound of bread for it in Lehel Hall, the Great Baker. 171 forints! A hundred thousand forints pension? My friends, hundreds of thousands of people live on a pension below 100,000 forints! Will there be a raise of 600 forints? That's a liter of food oil! Over the past year, the consumer price index for food oil has increased over 20 percent over the horizon of a year. 650 forints now a liter of food oil, some good food oil. As I said, the Hungarian pension is now the lowest among the V4s. In Slovakia, the average pension is 180 thousand forints, and in Hungary it will reach 150 thousand forints just now. What was needed, fellow Members? Firstly, a budget would have been needed to show how low pensions are intended to be caught up, say, in a pension correction programme. Out of 70 billion forints, the money spent to catch up on low pensions could have done wonders in this country. But no, he's going to a hunting exhibition for more than 70 billion forints! We had a suggestion. And our proposal is to ensure that at least 50% of the current net minimum wage reaches the size of the initial old-age pension. I know you can't make a living from that either, but that would be around HUF 70,000, and that's why we need to strengthen social finance and social services, because it doesn't allow us to live a decent life. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, really referred to this, and I would like to say that the minimum livelihood of the one-man pension system measured by the HCSO was 105 thousand forints last year. Almost 600,000 of the pensioners live in Hungary with less money. My fellow Members, these should have been dealt with in the Budget Act, and I believe that we could then support it. Less horse wellness and much more pension correction programs! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-05-19-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[For signal:]] I take the floor from the LMP Group to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-19-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, Congressman Gábor Riz is no longer here. He considered it important to mention the University of the Chinese Communist Party, for which the government wants to build a campus of hundreds of billions of Hungarian taxpayers. There's a few things that need to be fixed. I have also read certain press statements from Congressman Ujhelyi. He forgot to quote Gábor Riz, a Fideszes representative, that István Ujhelyi said that he did not agree with, nor does he support, that the circumstances of the investment are of concern. Let it be clear to everyone that the government wants to build it out of 440 billion, I repeat, with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, the Budapest campus of the Chinese University, plus hundreds of billions of other benefits in this direction. We can also see that government plans to support the operation of the university at an annual level of 10 billion. This HUF 550 billion is now compared to the total Hungarian higher education budget of around HUF 250 billion. Let's compare it with the fact that, when the government started this outsourcing process for the model change, in January Minister Palkovics promised the Hungarian higher education of 1500 billion EU development resources, which was first demoted to 1200 billion, and now we see in the EU recovery plan that only 119 billion of the promised 1500 billion will be allocated to Hungarian universities. So, while being placed under political control, the entire Hungarian higher education has been outsourced, and the budget figures seem to be severely restrictive, while the hundreds of billions of Hungarian taxpayers' money is spent on the Chinese Communist Party's campus in Budapest. This is an outrage and a betrayal of the future of young Hungarians! Thank you. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-05-19-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Since several have not applied for a two-minute speech, ordinary speeches will follow. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In 2022 the government provided some HUF 2778 billion in funding to support Hungarian families. This is more than HUF 482 billion higher than the previous year. The tax relief for families, together with the benefit of the first married couple, is expected to exceed HUF 315 billion next year. The government will spend 140 billion forints next year to ensure that people under the age of 25 are free. More than 380 billion HUF will be allocated to the continuation of the home creation programme. Free textbook provision has become full since the 2020-2021 school year. For this purpose, 13 billion HUF is also available next year. The baby shower program was an excellent program, within which Hungarian families will receive free-to-use, interest-free loans by the end of 2022. In 2021, HUF 67 billion was allocated, with HUF 91 billion higher in 2022, i.e. HUF 24 billion. A billion forints increases the amount of four-year-old mothers who are free of health. This item will rise from HUF 24 billion to HUF 25 billion. I am thinking about the priority forms of family support, the large support of villages, the renovation and construction of schools, kindergartens, crèches and small settlements in the following year. The depopulation of villages has almost stopped in my constituency. Once again, the rural way of life became attractive. Young families are happy to take on and choose rural life. In the villages of my constituency there is almost no abandoned, vacant house, because old destroyed or destroyed buildings, deserted buildings are also welcome to be purchased by young people and renovated within the framework of the village CSOK. This is the trend even in the Sümeg district most affected by the emigration. Allow me to select some more specific examples from my constituency. The population in Raposcan has increased by 2.5 percent over the last five years. Lesencetomajon has also increased the number of residents in recent years, ten families have used the village CSOK. In Káptalantóti, the population increased by 2.8 percent over five years, during which period 41 properties changed owners in the settlement. Szigliget stands out, of course, I also know that the settlements in Balaton are popular, and this, of course, is a part of Szigliget's popularity, but I do not want to highlight this, but primarily its institutional network, because with the renovation of the institution network, we handed over the renovated kindergarten last week, and the renovation of the school will also start this year. As a result, 58 students attended the school in 2015, with 115 students this year. This was not because schools were consolidated, or the school would have ceased in other settlements, and the students came here, but this means that the settlement is so popular and the number of settlements in the area is so popular. In Szigliget, however, the school will indeed expand, as next year the Balatonederics school will join Szigliget as a member institution. Previously, Balatonederics School belonged to the Zala County School District, now returning to Veszp-rém County. [[19.20]] But it is also an important settlement in Nagyvázsony, where more people have been born in recent years than have died. As a negative, my fellow Members said that we should go out to the villages and look at the villages. I say, too, that you come out into the villages and look at the progress that the villages have made over the past few years. It is good to go through our villages, to see the expansion and development of the institutional network, to see the development of roads and sidewalks, and also to see the renewable houses and buildings, which are populated by young people. Overall, it can be concluded that families have never received such support as they will receive in 2022, contrary to the period before 2010, only the family support system has peaked in the amount and increase of the family allowance, and today it can be seen that the complex set of family support has grown into a system. The next budget also shows that more resources will be allocated to our villages, more resources will be allocated to the development of the road network, the construction of sidewalks, and in my constituency, Ajka, Tapolca, Sümeg and the Balaton Uplands will have another wave of development. Consequently, for my part, I am in favour of the 2022 budget and I call on my fellow Members to act in the same way. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Here you go, Congressman, notary, the floor is yours.
u2021-05-19-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Let me begin by thanking the Hungarian people, the taxpayers, the companies, the companies that are now allowing us to have something to talk about with their paid tax forints; they allow us now to decide on what social groups, sectors and areas to spend the nearly HUF 25 000 billion amount on. Allow me to illustrate the budget with a cake. It doesn't matter how many slices of this cake we're going to give to social groups, sectors or regions, because the bigger slices we're going to get, the smaller slices we're going to get somewhere else. It is therefore very important that this law is supported professionally and that we be able to act responsibly in creating and adopting the law. However, there are some things that I can't go without saying a word, and I'm not going to. Allow me to talk a little bit more about my country, Somogyland. If people in Somogy County have known something well for a long time, those are the unconfirmed promises of my fellow Member Attila Móring József, but for the sake of fairness I would also add that the Fidesz government is not helping the Member to deliver his promises, even though it would be very good, because these proposals, most of his suggestions, would be good for the region if they were to be implemented, and if we needed money to do so, then we should create them. Let's see exactly what I'm thinking. In 2009, Mr Moring proposed the buy-back of the winery in Balatonboglár, more commonly known as BB, which, by the way, was a safe livelihood for 1600 families in Somogy. For 11 years, Fidesz has been on the government, yet it has not been bought back from the foreign owner, but it is better later than never, and this should be the source. Then there is the disappointing situation of the Petőfi Sándor barracks in Marcal, which, contrary to Mr. President's promise in 2018, has still not been converted into a defence plant, which would give 200-220 people a job if we gave money. Or we can also talk about the construction of a bicycle route connecting Mesztményő with Balatonmáriafürdő, which the Member also promised before the elections in 2018, but has not yet been built. Of course, tourists visiting Lake Balaton would be happy to use it. If the 500 million HUF awarded earlier was not enough to build this, then I suggest we add a little more. And the case of the renovation of the rescue station in Balatonlelle is not delayed, where paramedics have been forced to do their work under unfair conditions for years. Congressman Moring discovered the problem last year and said that the rescue station building would be renewed. It's been a year since then, but do you know what's changed? There's more cracks in the walls. OMSZ estimated the renovation of the rescue station and the amount needed to build the new rescue station to HUF 415 million. Next year, please, my fellow Members, let us also provide resources for this. Not least, the degraded Marcal hospital to Kaposvár hospital needs to flourish. Many people rightly ask, Congressman Steinmetz, how there will be doctors here, how there will be instruments here. Well, please, I can answer that, if there is money, then there will be doctors and instruments in Marcali, and that there will be money, and that is a question of intent. I think people in the Marcal district deserve not to have to travel to Kaposvár for medical services, do not have to wait 15 months for an eye examination, have obstetrics and gynecology again, and be a child class in Marcali. Therefore, I think it is our shared responsibility to make the necessary money for this. I would also like to ask the Fidesz Government and the Secretary of State, representing the Fidesz Government, to help Mr Moring fulfill his promises, such as the purchase of a hospital CT, the construction of a rescue helicopter landing and the independence of the Marcal hospital. But not only does Attila Moring have debts to the people of Somogy, but also to the government. They owe, for example, a MotoGP course that started and left in half in 2008 on Sávoly, because they prefer to build a MotoGP track on Hajdúnánánás, while in Sávoly it would be cheaper and more reasonable. There is also a burning need to write in the quote left on the shelf, understand road 68, as well as the renovation of other roads in Somogy, and not just near Somogyvár. It is necessary to renovate, secure, widen the cycle circle of Balaton, and complete the bike route connecting Budapest to Lake Balaton. Let us also spend money on renovating the Mesztegnyő railway, transforming the Somogysárd Castle into a cavalry centre, and running the Blue Lake resort village in Poland, because proud Somogy citizens deserve this. And how to make money for that, well, I have more suggestions for that. For example, many billions of government communications, also known as government propaganda, or even a public service budget, but not a hundred billion-dollar budget of MTVA, which serves the public. It would be possible to carve off the visual investments, sir, and the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros, which ingested half the shore of Balaton, could also work with a smaller margin in the future, so that more money could be made for Hungarian and Somogyi people as well. Dear Secretary of State, Your leader, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who I respect, advised me last year that good proposals should be made and that they would be able to support it. I ask you to accept these proposals. Believe me, it is very important for the Hungarian people, the people of Somogy, to have the funding for these developments. Be willing to compromise, just because you may find it difficult to imagine that there will be a change in the future, but, yes, next year there will be elections, and it may well be that next year's budget 2022 will have to be implemented by the new government. That is why I hope that my good and necessary amendments will be accepted, I highly recommend to you, and I hope that there will be compromises that must be in the interests of the people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2021-05-19-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I've got a rundown on my monitor. So, can I get a two-minute statement from someone? [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go. [[19.30]]
u2021-05-19-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I have been watching today's debate and I would like to respond to one more thing. Not so long ago, perhaps two hours ago, Prime Minister Simicskó said that the budget is practically a creed and a value choice from the preparatory and submission governments. I agree with this idea, but at the same time, if we look at the budget figures, we do not see the creed and not the value choice that Fidesz-KDNP has put on its flag, but we can say that in many respects we see decisions contrary to it. If we want to give some examples in support of this, I can say that today there are 17 thousand kilometres of roads waiting for immediate renovation in Hungary, as there are so many roads in the wrong or the wrong category. Compared to this, in the draft budget, the Hungarian village programme has significantly less money for the development of rural side roads than the government wants to build a MotoGP career. It is quite shocking data, and this has been said here many times over the last few weeks and months, that this government spends more on the hunting exhibition than on the annual support of ambulances. This is also quite shocking. We have had a lot of discussions about the Budapest-Belgrád railway project serving Chinese interests and incompatible with Hungarian national interests, which we know will be an investment of nearly a thousand billion in total, and this will be the amount of Hungarian taxpayers' money spent with interest, together with everything, while almost nothing has been spent in the last 11 years to maintain railway lines that are very important for the countryside. And it is clear from this budget that you are just talking about patriotic economic policy, you are just talking about it, that you want to strengthen the local economy and the economic policy based on cooperation, because you are paying for the infrastructure that is once again based on Chinese hegemony, Chinese economic pressure and the remote transport of mass products. This is not a policy appropriate to national interests, this is contrary to that. This is reflected in the budget figures, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Since more people have not applied for a two-minute comment, we will continue with the regular comments. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Zsolt V. Németh is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. I'll wait for you to put your microphone on and please adjust the time frame. Now we're at 15 seconds, and now I want it restored. [[It's happening.]]
u2021-05-19-111	Thank you very much for the word and for your patience, Mr President, my fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It has been said several times in the Expo and since this budget has been a budget for restarting life, it could be said to be aimed at regaining the nation's vitality. This has several dimensions, intersections, because we literally need to regain our health by eliminating the epidemic, and even win a condition in the coming year that we can receive a similar epidemic even more prepared, even more prepared to overcome it. Then in the other field there is the strengthening of the economy, among which is the health industry, in connection with what has been said so far, in order to return to growth, we almost say that we can set the economy on a normal growth path. But there is also a third field that belongs to health, and that is that together and separately we regain our desire to live, our confidence, to have a good time in our skin. Well, I think that the 2022 budget also meets this requirement, because if we see how significant it is for culture and sport, then we can visualise the budget of a confident nation here. I would now like to talk about a small slice, namely the resources for outstanding national values and Hungaricums. Nine-year-old is the law that regulates the identification, collection, awareness, promotion of our national values, and the purpose is to collect and use the values that are important to the Hungarians as a whole, which may also be local values, regional or county values, and to strengthen our identity as the most important goal. Therefore, the target area of this law is not only the territory of today's Hungary, but also the parts of the nation that have been torn apart. We have set up a value pyramid at the time that allows local values to be focused on national features; we could also say that the Hungarian codes, the elements that give us the peculiarities and characters of the Hungarians, about which others know us. In recent years, 76 Hungaricums and 181 outstanding national values have thus been named. But the success of this idea comes from the more than 1100 settlements where the local depositor was established. And it shows that this area is important for the government, too, that while we spent less than HUF 500 million on it in 2019, nearly 1.3 billion from last year onwards. In the organisation of the agricultural portfolio, we ensure the operation of the Hungaricum Committee, but we also fund a number of other programs, so in recent years the Hungarians and Mi series of radios went to Kossuth, and in the last year, in the year of the national integration, the Hungarians believe in a home, also a 200-part series, and those who turn on the radio in the morning can listen to the series "The Hungarians" from my beautiful country, also in 200 parts, which bears the subtitle "Hungarians in the world." We also believe that programmes that complement the programmes of the Ministry of Human Resources are very important to present Hungarian culture in the world. Some 1,800 projects have received HUF 4.2 billion in funding in recent years. We feel that there is a greater need for this activity than ever before, since we see that there is a struggle of values in the world. With their relationship to tradition, nations also choose a kind of vision, not a vision, but a daily way of life and behavior. So we protect the Hungarian way of life with these resources. For example, when we introduce Hungarian food and drinks, compare it with the banning of pork in Western Europe, in a German cafeteria, or the greening of flour worms as food in the European Union is now a joy. Yeah, well, we're still thinking more of the sheep's stew in Karcag. Then it's important that we keep our costumes. That's what the FolkTREND! program is for, too, the Agricultural Ministry. It's habits. Practices are not just ethnographic elements, but let us take out one custom that has been urbanized, such as watering, a minimum of respect for the woman. Let us compare this with the values represented by migrants. So besides fertility, she's showing respect. Or when we defend Christian culture, we are not just talking about its religious aspect, but about the customary, the celebration circles that govern our lives. If we can confirm that, then I don't think it's necessary to talk about it or to make a municipal decree as to why we shouldn't work or mow lawns at one o'clock on Sunday afternoon. [[19.40]] Finally, let me mention one element: this is the area of folk dance and folk music, which is also served by the excellent Soóri programme of the Ministry of Human Capacities, as we believe that since its departure in 2017, it has achieved its initial goals, supporting the transfer of knowledge from Hungarian folk dance folk music bands, folklore and folklore groups across Hungary and the border, as well as the creative communities of folk arts. You can see that in the bands. It is a pleasure that around 3 billion can be spent on this in the 2022 budget. I highlight this area because it is not just some kind of artistic activity, it is not little of a kind of beauty, but, for example, in this world of very identity disorder, there are very few areas such as folk dance that present clear gender roles in a way to be followed. All in all, I see that this budget is capable of regaining the will to live, having a good time in our skin, and that the nation that has regained confidence can do much to keep Hungary a Hungarian country, together with this budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-19-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone is applying for a two-minute speech. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-19-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to address a question to the Secretary of State. Last year I submitted several proposals for amending the budget, and then Pécs, a Member of the Parliament of Baranya, voted against them. He looted the people in his constituency from billions of forints. And when I asked him to account several times in the last year, he referred to something that was why he voted 'no' to send billions of forints to the Pécs, for example, to the development of the fleet, because it was not sufficiently coordinated before him. My question is that it must be understood that the government must ask for permission from pro-government representatives to vote in favour of amendments aimed at problems affecting their constituency. So, in the government's view, does it have the right to a Member of Parliament, if he is pro-government, if he sees a proposal that is good for the region, which is important for the region, which gives billions of forints to the people living in his region, does it have the right to vote in favour of them? I think it is important to ask this question so that I can reassure Mr Péter Hoppál in advance that he will calmly vote on my proposals for next year's budget this year, because they will provide a solution to very, very important problems that can be detected in Pécs and Baranya. Once again, I will present the proposal to develop an ageing fleet of vehicles in extremely poor condition. I will propose a common Community transport system for Komló, Kozármisleny, in Pécs and its region. I will also propose that it be possible to find a cure for the absolutely amazing problem that Tettye Forrásház Zrt. is only available for 15 years. In its supply area, HUF 20 billion is missing in addition to the existing resources to provide the most important public service. And I will also propose an amendment so that higher education, which has been restricted by the Orbán government, including the University of Pécs, will receive the resources necessary to enable that institution to operate. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform you, Mr. Head of Group, that you have a very wide knowledge, Mr. Secretary of State, but since you are not a member of the Group, in this regard, you are not competent in matters relating to the faction, so, Mr. Secretary of State, you do not have to answer that. Thank you very much. We will continue with the speeches, coming from the Fidesz Group, Mr István Happy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-19-115	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I can safely say that nothing has changed in the last ten years. I've been a congressman for 11 years, this is the tenth budget I've been involved in. The budget is usually supported by us pro-governments, we talk about amendments, we present those that we can develop our district, our region, our nation, and the opposition is always attacking and not satisfied with anything. At first, after 2010, the most important thing they said was that this budget is going to collapse, it's going to go bankrupt, it's going to be, it's going to be. And then, of course, they were always proven wrong. Then they came after him saying what we're doing isn't right. They did not support tax cuts, they did not support our family policy, they did not support job creation, they did not support the increase in pensions or even the 13th month pension, because they do not agree because they do not have to, they do not have to. In fact, they did not support the Erzsébet camp system, nor do they support development ideas. We can also say that if there was no coronal virus epidemic, the budgets submitted by the government in the last two years would have been justified by the fact that the government and our fractions had been well-designed, well-predicted as before, but unfortunately, the epidemic has upset it a little bit. As a result, for example, we had to transform the 2021 budget a few days ago. The opposition is still attacking the re-launch budget, does not support the tax reduction of young people, does not support the support of families, supports pensioners and, of course, does not support job creation. However, I believe that many people are served by the many measures that this budget supports, because the opposition says that we are serving the few with this budget and they would serve a lot more people. I don't know why they consider tax exemptions for young people under the age of 25. I think it affects tens of thousands of young people, and I don't think it belongs to the few. Just like the family support system supports hundreds of thousands of families. I do not believe that it can be said that it supports the few, even if it sounds like good communication to the opposition. Just as the recovery of the 13th month pension and the retirement premium make life easier for tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of pensioners. And then there's the investments. I find it very interesting that investments are constantly being attacked. Here, for example, is the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. You think it's unnecessary, it doesn't support anyone, just the Chinese and the contractor alone. And they never think, let's say, the construction of this railway line, let's say, will be in a five-year period by which time it will be built, in these five years thousands of people will be working on this work, during this period of time, this job, this job, will be the livelihood of thousands of people. You don't seem to care about them, you don't take that into account. Just as they have only problems with the hunting exhibition, even though the launch of the hunting exhibition will help precisely those sectors that are now perhaps the most in trouble during the coronal virus epidemic: catering, tourism workers, hotels. I think we really need this. It is absolutely important to have such events, because this will help a little bit to reboot these sectors. And, well, they also have problems with the Hungarian village program all the time: either there is little money, or we give a lot of money to renovate the road network, or we don't put it where it should be. Well, I have to say, in my constituency alone, several tens of kilometers of road networks have been renewed in recent years. It is also very important that, with the exception of road network renovation, more than HUF 864 million has been won by NGOs, municipalities, churches and, of course, from this year onwards, small-scale enterprises will be able to apply. It is good to see that this programme will continue in 2022 and that it can continue to develop, and that the settlements of my region can also develop further. My fellow Member, Zoltán Fenyvesi, spoke about Transdanubia; I would rather talk about the Great Plain, specifically my constituency. As I said, 863 million forints were won in these 18 settlements, there is no settlement where they have not won a tender in the last two years. For example, five settlements won HUF 76 million to build a kindergarten building. In Cibakháza, Selekány, Csépán, Inokán, or Tsúdüspöki, they are very happy about this. In kindergarten, playground design in Masters' Apartments, Nagyréven, Inokán, Tisakürt, Csépán, Szelvény, they were very happy that all of this could be built. [[19.50]] You could apply for a medical device. Indeed, nine of my settlements have been enriched with medical instruments: Cserkeszőlő, Cibakháza, Masters' Station, Kuncsorba, Brother, to say only a few of the nine. But it was also possible to apply for the renewal of a doctor's office, and the renovation of the doctor's office has already been completed in two settlements, this is Képpo and Tiszainoka. We hope we can continue this year. Churches could apply for the renewal of church community spaces. They won these in nine settlements, and we just handed over the renovated building of the Catholic parish to Kuncsorb. I think that this is an important thing for the people who live there, even if the opposition does not interpret it as such and says that we have helped few people. Many of the guests enjoyed this renovation. Seven of our settlements have also won the renovation of the municipal community squares in the last two years, and I hope more will win this year. They rejoiced in Cserkeszolo, Cibakháza, Kuncsorbán, Tiszainokán, Tiszatenyő, Nagyréven, Mezőhek, which is one of the smallest settlements, and there the renovation of the cultural house is a huge thing, and it has a preservation force. We have renovated inland roads in eight settlements, including Cibakháza, Kuncsorbán, Tiszainokán, Tiszasason, Kengalen, Seleten, Tisakürt, Tsúdüspöki. They built a sidewalk in Böcsöd, Tisasas, Cibakhaza, and won a village bus, which is a great help for the people living on the farm and especially for the elderly, Mezőhek, Nagyrév, Selevény, Tisainoka, Cserkeszolő and Mesters' quarters. These are very important things. But it is very important that we be able to make further improvements. The development of crèches has indeed been carried out in the region, and there is a further development of crèches, not only in small settlements, as the 23 settlements won 2.2 billion for crèches, in Sayol, Tsudüspöki, Kenghelen, Kétpón, Tiszatenyö, Öcsöd, Tiszasason, Törökszentmiklós, two crèches are built, as not only the local government, but the Reformed Church is building one, and the Reformed Church is building a crèche in Mezőtúr, as well as a minibébőd is built in Csépán. I think that this is all very, very important development, but I do not list all the opportunities that you could apply for, but I would like to point out that in 2021, helping businesses and helping your life will also start in small settlements. Village shops and small businesses can apply. It's very important and I see that they're almost all applying for 18 small settlements. But not just to talk about small settlements, as five cities belong to me, I would mention that Mezőtúr is one of the biggest school development in the region. The development of the Rákóczi Road School will be completed, and the renovation of the Teleki Blanka High School will begin soon. But the infrastructure development of the social basic service is underway, a Reformed dorm, a nursery, as I have already said, is being renewed. In Kunszentmárton, the day care centre is being renewed and the medical office is being renovated at the moment. Martfűn development of basic social services, studio-energetics. In Törökszentmiklós, the renovation of the Hunyadi Elementary School is still taking place, the kitchen of the municipal school is being renovated, and it sounds a little strange, but thanks to the program of the Hungarian village in Tiszaföldvár, we renewed one of the worst-case roads, the Döbrei János út. This is due to the fact that many people are travelling on the Döbrei János road to Cibakhaza, Nagyrév, Tiszainoka. Our area will soon be hit by two highways. Even this year, the highways M44 and M4 will be completed, which will further help our lives. I think that these are all investments that the region desperately needs. I see that the 2022 budget provides a great deal of opportunities for local governments, businesses, civil society organisations and churches in the region. That is why I ask you to support me, this is the budget that can take a step again, for which I think we are all working, so that the Carpathian Basin, as it is today, will be filled by Hungarians, so that the Carpathian Basin will be loud with Hungarian words. This objective is well served by the 2022 budget. I call on my fellow Members to support this budget. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-19-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, a two-minute speech is possible. László Lóránt Keresztes is next. Here you go.
u2021-05-19-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I feel that I have been approached by Congressman István Happy, so it is appropriate that I respond to it. You said, like your fellow parties, that this is a reboot budget, and we say that this is both a budget for living the future and a budget for betrayal. Honourable Member, you have been a Member for 10 to 11 years. Meanwhile, because of your government's misguided policy, hundreds of thousands of people have left this country out of compulsion, thousands of families have been torn apart. When I say this in Parliament, your politicians say it's okay because the common European labour market works. And we believe that this is a tragedy for the nation. In ten years, you have not been able to change the situation that four Hungarian regions remain among the 20 poorest regions in the EU. They couldn't do anything about the problems, the basic system problems that I bring here many times, before the Parliament, that the Hungarian water utility is on the brink of collapse, the rural road network is in a terrible state. They have not been able to implement any kind of transport reform, and yet you are defending that shameful project, the Budapest-Belgrád railway project here in Parliament, which will cost the Hungarian taxpayers a thousand billion forints. You almost literally said that this project would give jobs to thousands of people. [[Happy Stephen: That's right!]] Mr President, do you know how much money is spent on this project in the two years of the crisis? With the money you spend on the encrypted project, 175,000 jobs could have been created. Mr President, when you pressed the button last year, encrypting all the documents of this project for ten years, have you seen any information before you that would confirm that 175 001 jobs would be created by this project, which is of Chinese interest? We know very well that the companies of Lőrinc Mesa-Ros have a share of 300 billion of this. You are proud to support and defend a project that is contrary to Hungarian national interests and which is only spent so much money in the two years of the crisis that 175 thousand new Hungarian jobs could have been created. Shame, Congressman. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. We will continue with the proper speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mrs Ágnes Molnár is next. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I don't think there are two parallel realities. This was clearly seen and heard in recent minutes and hours from the speech of the left-wing fellow Members. This budget shows a country's situation in fact and figures and what the government's priorities are in this situation. Because of the coronal virus epidemic, last year we had to redesign everything in Hungary and in the world, and this year we needed steps that would allow us to restart life in Hungary. The economic re-launch action plan is precisely such a programme, the broad development of health care, that contributes to giving the Hungarian economy a boost that will bring Hungary to the top five countries of the European Union by 2030. Allow me to present today the key elements of the health budget, the area most affected by the control of the coronal virus epidemic. Whatever anyone says, the quality of the Hungarian health care system was well tested during the coronal virus epidemic. Even though left-wing representatives spread false news, faked statistics, created camuvides, hindered protection by their anti-vaccination campaign, the health system stood on the ground in the first, second and third waves of the epidemic. I am convinced that in addition to the heroic work of our doctors and nurses, this is because over the last decade, processes have started that have made the system more advanced and thus more resilient. Think of the HUF 500 billion developments in the convergence region when 91 hospitals were renovated, 54 clinics, 107 rescue stations, 23 new clinics, 34 new rescue stations, and we have constantly renewed medical devices. In addition, between 2018 and 20 we created family-friendly obstetrics with a budget of HUF 10 billion. But we can think of the continued strengthening of basic care, emergency care, or the growing financial appreciation of those working in the system. The current budget has provided a solid basis for these. Returning to successful disease management, we have received declarations of recognition from the World Health Organisation, and thanks to our outstanding vaccination program, we have the right to trust that the most difficult has already been overcome, we have implemented decisive Hungarian measures and our exemplary vaccination campaign has been recognised. [[20.00]] We can also hope that health care, which has been given a high priority in the epidemic situation, can be stronger than before the emergence of the coronal virus, with additional sources of development, and with further systemic changes that have started as a result of the epidemic. So let's look at reality, the budget numbers. In 2022, health is among the six priority areas of the government, declared in the budget. This is made perfectly clear by a single number, 769 billion. Forints 769 billion, that's more money for health next year than what was included in this year's budget estimate. Next year, there will be a total of HUF 2884 billion in healthcare. For the sixth year now, the health budget has not only increased, but the rate of growth is more than HUF 100 billion each year. With this, we have already spent 141 percent more money on healthcare than in 2010. The Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund will be in balance next year, with a total revenue and expenditure of 3620 billion. This year's budget for so-called curative-preventive benefits of 1566 billion will increase significantly by 35 percent to 2122 billion next year. From this register we also finance hospitals, clinics, rescues, general medical and protective services and dental care. A strong part of the next year's rise is this year's health wage increase based on health care services and the next year's wage increase, which I would like to mention later. Treatment-preventive benefits, if inflation is taken into account, have increased by 111 percent since 2010, while between 2002-2010, during Balliberal governance, there has been no real rise at all. In recent years, comprehensive measures on all levels of the healthcare system have been launched: public health and infrastructure improvements, in addition to wage increases, in the area of basic care. The fact that we consider basic care to be a key element of the system is also marked by the budget in figures. The basic supply register will increase from 120 billion in 2010 to 354 billion next year, a three-fold increase. In particular, next year, the budget for GP and GP care is 105 billion, 75 percent higher than this year. In real terms, the GP's register has thus increased by 137 percent since 2010, compared to 14 percent between 2002 and 2010. It is also important to highlight dental care, as next year there will be 82 billion in the budget, which is a huge 179 percent increase in real terms compared to 2010, compared to what happened between 2002 and 2010: minus 9 percent less in dental care. Saving is an area that, during the epidemic, was under more stress than before. First of all, we thank about 7500 employees of the National Rescue Service for their work, and it is good to see that the rescue service budget of 65.4 billion is nearly two and a half times higher than in 2010. Paramedics' salaries increased several times as a result of increases in labor and medical wages, and the average age of ambulances decreased from 8.3 to 4.8 years in the ten years. I would particularly like to point out that the OMSZ source for the rescue of premature babies has doubled since 2015, i.e. in six years. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot be grateful enough to our health workers, who have had and have to endure more difficult situations in the last year than before. Thanks and thanks to them, and it is a great pleasure that this work is recognized by the government. The wages of healthcare workers first increased by 27 percent in 2012-13 on average, and since 2016 they have been growing year after year. The employees received a total increase of 53 percent between 2016-18 and a further step-by-step wage increase between 2019-22. Of these, an increase of 8, 14, 20 per cent compared to the base has already been made, with a further increase of 30 per cent from 1 January 2022. It's only been a 72 percent increase since 2019, which, along with the professionals, has also been received by the women in charge. Medical wages increased by HUF 207 thousand in 2016-17, and now they have an unprecedented increase in wages with the introduction of a new legal relationship. Last year, I mentioned in the budget debate that the government has a commitment to a wage increase with a real perspective, to the extent that it can bring about a reduction in gratuity money. That's what's happening right now, a huge wage increase and a breakdown of the gratuity money system. From January this year, a doctor working for 20 years will earn 1 million HUF 342,000 from 44 thousand next year and 1 million HUF 491,000 in two years. One resident made 250 thousand forints, and now his wages have increased to 687,000 with legal relations; the doctor who worked 40 years can expect a salary of up to HUF 525 thousand for up to HUF 2 million and 380 thousand. The health wage increase, which will amount to nearly HUF 459 billion next year, is an important element of the economic re-launch action plan. If we add this to the salary increase of the 91 billion employees, the fourth wage increase, we will spend 550 billion forints on wages. That speaks for itself. In 2010 there were only HUF 270 billion in health wages, and in 2022 there was more than 1000 billion, with an increase of 276 percent. Last year, too, in the budgetary debate, it was also mentioned that the HCSO prepares a statement of average earnings every year. Between 2009 and 2019, the human health area moved from thirteenth place to the ninth place in this comparison. Well, it has not been long before we have already managed to move forward, and in one year we have managed to move forward with three more places, human health care is already in the sixth place between sectors, and between 2010 and 20, the average monthly gross income in this area has increased by 151 per cent by more than two and a half times. Nowhere has such progress been made, this is certainly remarkable, and let us not forget that from 2022 there will be more wage increases. Although EU developments are not part of the domestic budget, they complement it well and organisedly. The development of 2021-27 is currently being planned, but the 2014-20 programmes are still being implemented. Some examples are complete: for complex public health screenings 18 billion, for the development of nurses' shelters 10 billion, for the development of eHealth 65 billion, for child emergency development nearly 20 billion, for the energy modernisation of our healthcare institutions more than 20 billion, for the development of basic supply infrastructure of some 41 billion and 23 billion forints for the development of outpatient care. [[20.10]] Dear fellow Members, I believe that this budget will ensure the quality of the health care system, which has been proven during the coronal virus epidemic, so far and in 2022. Thank you to all those involved in this sacrifice. On this basis, I would like to propose support for the budget from my fellow Members. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-19-120	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Once again, a two-minute speech is possible. Two of them came forward. I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-19-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary a question about the state of higher education in relation to the budget. The government promised in January that HUF 1500 billion of EU development resources would arrive in Hungarian higher education. This was first reduced to 1200 billion, then we can see that in this recovery fund there is only HUF 119 billion. At the same time, if we look at the central budget, we can see that, compared to around 530 billion HUF this year, only 250 billion is on the Hungarian higher education lines next year. So we can see that the government wants to spend nearly double on the campus of the University of the Chinese Communist Party in Budapest, as a year to finance the entire Hungarian higher education. Dear Secretary of State, How will Hungarian universities work? How will workers, educators, researchers pay their wages? Do you want universities to sell properties that have previously been transferred from public wealth to the foundation? The Hungarian universities face brutal, brutal restrictions! There's a lot of uncertainty, Mr. Secretary. So the university leaders can see the budget lines, and it's shocking! From what source will it be possible to finance the wage increases you promised? How can this be done? We can see that once again the government, the government plans, what Mr. Simicskó Group Leader has referred to, the value choice is visible from it, according to your plans, ten times the teachers of the University of the Chinese Communist Party will provide wages on the campus of Budapest, as at Hungarian universities. But I also look forward to Mr Secretary of State's straight and clear answer as to why they decided that, before they forced universities into this model change with lies, they would not give up the promised development resources, which was found out after the vote, and now they are being hit with such brutal restrictions. From what source will Hungarian universities be able to operate? Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. István Happy is next for a two-minute speech.
u2021-05-19-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, I would like to note that it was your ally who said that it was possible to leave this country. Ferenc Gyurcsány. This is your ally, and you're running for election together. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: No.]] Don't say no, because it's true. So now you represent the entire opposition faction, as I see it. The other is that I can see that he was very involved in this Fudan University, explaining the Chinese Communist Party. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are a member of a party association with the May Other Politics and we see that there can be no other policy, as I see it, where you are with the successor party of the Hungarian Communist Party. This is MSZP and DK. Look back at history, okay? Since 19 only the name has been changed continuously, you have to look at it! So that's what you've been working with. So, from your mouth, communism with the Chinese university sounds a little strange, because once again, you are in an alliance with the Hungarian Communist Party's successor party, and you will run for election together. As for railway construction and other projects. I'm sorry. There's no need to feel sorry for people for their jobs. The thousands of people working on a construction site like this and earning a living there, you shouldn't be sorry. This is all a help to the people of the country, and I hope that the next year's budget will help all Hungarian families to move forward a little, and everyone can live a little better. And I am also sure that this budget will benefit the entire Hungarian nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-19-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Vinnai Győző, Member of the Fidesz Group, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a proper speech. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The budget submitted next year is the budget for the re-launch of the country. We can have a fundamental goal, I hope, not only on the pro-government side, but also on the other side, to be the winners of a new world economy era. This is the basis for this proposal. 'Cause when is a budget good? I've been trying to gather some concepts. If it's realistic, revenues and expenses are in proportion. He's keeping his end of the line. If it encourages the economy, if it reduces taxes, and thus whitens the economy, and motivates companies, entrepreneurs, and if it reduces public debt. These objectives are included in this budget. And, of course, we have heard from several of my fellow Members about the challenges that we are facing at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, and I have to say that this budget wants practically economic growth, job creation and retention, and decent wages for work. It is a priority for the budget to support businesses, to become more competitive with improvements and quality work and to create jobs. In 2022, as many have already mentioned, it provides more than HUF 7300 billion of resources under the economic re-launch action plan. According to forecasts, the performance of the Hungarian economy can increase by 4.3 percent this year and up to 5.2 percent next year. Allow me to talk about education in two important areas of education, since public education was already spoken of by Mária Kállai, one by higher education and the other by vocational training. At higher education, I would like to say a single parentheses sentence to László Lóránt Keresztes. I've taken out the program of modern cities, and it's also included in the budget how much the University of Pécs receives. This year, in the framework of the Modern Cities Programme, you will receive HUF 27.5 billion for infrastructure development, increase in student numbers, quality work and HUF 533 million in next year's budget, i.e. another half billion forints. I don't know why a man who teaches at university is so anti-college. [[Dr. László László Kereszt will spread his arms.]] I myself teach at university, and I don't think I want to point backwards at the fact that there is a great need for university development, and there is a need for quality education. It is necessary, yes, this is a task ahead of us to value the instructors and to have a wage increase, but that is precisely the fact that the development of universities, the future of universities, is the future of Hungary. And I think that right now, in this period, in 2022 and in the period that follows, I hope that we can make this development even after 2022 be a great development, and not Bologna, and not any improvements that were unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen, If I am talking about education, next year's draft budget will spend HUF 2180 billion on education. It's all in there. Compared to 2010, this represents 235 billion more resources and nearly 5 percent of GDP. This is not a negligible source. And while we are at universities, the full expenditure of model-changing universities does not appear in the budget, but only public support is shown, which means that model-changing universities can work more flexibly with a more flexible structure by receiving wealth, and they also serve the needs of the economy, so revenues will also be much higher in such a structure. But if I look at primary and secondary education and the vocational schools, the resources in this area will increase by HUF 100 billion compared to this year. And while we're here about what happened between 2002 and 2010 and what happened in the last 11-12 years because I've been involved in 12 budget debates, I've seen municipal budgets for eight years before, if we look at the public sector's wages, then according to next year's draft budget, wages are nominally underlined, nominally increased by 85 percent compared to 2010. There is an 85% increase over the 12 years. [[20.20]] Next year's budget will spend nearly HUF 1100 billion on the salaries of teachers and assistants in kindergarten, primary school, secondary and higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, If we are already on benefits, in wages and textbook care or in children's meals, which defines educational actors, let me tell you that this government has introduced the teacher's career model among the first and has made a 50+10 percent wage increase in recent years. Last year, a new structure in vocational education and training was introduced by amending the VET Act, which meant that in 2020, i.e. from 1 July last year, a 30 per cent wage increase was observed, on average 30 per cent wage increase, and the instructors were included in this more flexible employment and wage increase, paying better, highlighting practical education and thus aligning the needs of education and the economy. I do not want to discuss this for a long time that dual training and practical training, which I will say in vocational training, are the motivations. But if we look at the support of Hungarian families, which also appears in the field of education, this means the free provision of textbooks, which became free for everyone in primary and secondary education from the 2020-21 academic year, for everything, I underline, for all students. The government will spend 13 billion forints on this next year. But if I still took the children's meal, the school apple, the school milk, the healthier food, which means brunch and lunch, I would say one song for the children's meal, ladies and gentlemen, in 2010, the government spent HUF 31 billion, that's all it could do, so we took over the country. And now, to be exact next year, 87 billion 200 million, nearly three times, three times what our children receive in the area of food for their children. A lot of people get it free of charge, and I also know an example that there is a local government that is completely for everyone, because it may mean only 80-90 percent, making school meals free for everyone. Overall, in this chapter, I can say that support for families, increasing the quality of education, improving the infrastructure of the institutions, raising or raising the level of training means that all of the provisions of Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are to be met. In the first century, a high level of education is the only way to enter the labour market. That is why I say that education is a strategic sector, and that human resources must be invested, and today, the 21st century, is a strategic sector. In the century, the individual acquires marketable knowledge, not only for the individual, but also for the community, and even for a larger, higher community, the Hungarian nation, as Gyula Illyés writes, exploits this knowledge not only for the individual, but also for the community and the whole country. I have a short quote from Albert Szent-Györgyi Nobel Prize-winning scientist, who won the Nobel Prize in Hungary in 37 and tells us what the school is for. Maybe it's worth listening to these lines. The school is designed to learn, to awaken a desire for knowledge, to learn the joy of well done work, to taste the excitement of creation, and to find the work that you will love. I think in this quote, it's all about how to raise our children from school to the labour market. On higher education, there were only two ideas: in fact, the development of higher education appeared in December 2016 with the "Training in Higher Education" theme, which envisaged campus development, the replacement of PPPs, a new research funding system, a dual education course, a completely renewed doctoral training course, and we hope that this will also be done in 2022. What kind of higher education must be and the essence of the model change is - a performance-oriented, open to the needs of the economy, a modern, competitive education based on tradition. Of course, this requires a lot of work, but the funding of public education is included in the draft budget for next year. I just don't want to say a small example here, I already told you about Pécs, there is such a plan in Debrecen, because in 2022 Debrecen also receives nearly HUF 4 billion from the government; to increase student numbers, technical training, engineering and medical training, about HUF 4 billion. And according to the budget budget budget, doctoral school, which is now giving the number from 1300 to 2,000, almost doubles the number of doctoral students. I think it's a big step forward. In short, on the subject of vocational training, I would like to highlight some of the cornerstones. This is a success story, vocational training 4.0, since 41 percent of students applied to vocational training, technics and vocational school this year, and 34 percent applied to high school. The other students have either applied to vocational schools or are not studying, but this is a low number, so 41 percent have applied to vocational training. I don't want to confront high school applications and vocational training, but the economy needs good professionals who do technique, graduate college, or perform middle-grade tech. There are 41 vocational training centres linked to the budget, so let me tell you how much their budget support is. So there are 41 vocational training centres, I can give you an example: there are ten institutions in the Nyíregyháza Vocational Training Centre, I keep in touch with them, and I can practically say that they are happy with this wage increase last year, they are happy with the professional work and have enough applicants. Vocational training centres receive a budget of HUF 176 billion of HUF 496 million. This is 22 percent higher at the base level, as last year's increase in wages was also incorporated. In addition, the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office receives HUF 2 billion and HUF 760 million. We know that this National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office carries out adult education, adult education, some of the responsibilities of the Vocational Training Centres as central managers, and otherwise carries out specific tasks for vocational training and administration. Adult education, adult education, just one title: lifelong learning, or the good priest learns to give everyone the opportunity to get a job and get a professional qualification in adult life. Ladies and gentlemen, Only one issue about adult education: while 11 percent of adults studied adult education in 2009-10, this figure is now 15 percent. It could be a little more, but today's news is that this will be significantly increased. To conclude, there is only one sentence about the scholarship system. A Vocational Training Scholarship, a general vocational training scholarship will be introduced in a running system, and this will motivate young people to receive up to a hundred thousand forints of vocational training scholarship, thus motivating them to sign up, be in serious practical training, in practical training places, and then pursue their profession with integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, I would like to say that education is an important part of our lives, based on cooperation between actors, teachers, students and parents, the budget provides sufficient resources to ensure quality work in schools with adequate infrastructure and IT tools. Digital education has passed well, but it has also turned out that it is difficult to replace presence education from the point of view of education. [[20.30]] The future of universities, the future of the country and the future of vocational training are the future of the country's economic performance. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Once again, two-minute speeches are possible. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-19-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Happy Congressman! It can be misguided, but Fidesz brings the University of the Chinese Communist Party here and spends hundreds of billions of Hungarian taxpayers for this purpose. There's a chance you're gonna get it wrong again. You've been communists for a very long time, and you've voted against the disclosure of agent files 23 times. Honourable Congressman, I look to Béla Kovács with great respect, and I live in Pécs Patacson 100 metres from his former birthplace. I am asking you, Congressman, what do you think of your mayor in Kaposvár, Károly Sita, an enthusiastic informant and keen agent of Communist state security, and going to wreath on the Memorial Day of the victims of the Communist dictatorship. What do you think of that? What is the opinion of Károly Sita, and can we say that Fidesz is completely hypocritical and hypocritical? Congressman Vinnai mentioned the programme of modern cities, the University of Pécs. Do you know why new and new sources of investment had to be provided? Because Lőrinc Mészáros' companies worked more expensively than the previous plans, which is why we had to provide additional resources for the investment of the University of Pécs. Honourable Congressman, At the meeting of the Cultural Committee, he said, in almost literally the change of model, that anyone who misses the change of model will also miss development resources. Honourable Congressman, What do you think of the fact that all Hungarian universities have missed the development resources you promised? Where are the development resources promised to universities? You blackmailed universities into outsourcing this model change and putting them under political control, and then two days after the vote, you told them that, yes, sorry, the EU's development resources were not coming. Honourable Congressman, You are a university man, a university professor and a responsible Member of Parliament. Where are the development resources you promised, which you have judged to be universities? And I'm against college? The Senate of the University of Pécs has set out clear conditions for the change of model, which you have failed to comply with, deceiving the University of Pécs. And after they put together a fully fidesz board, they asked the Rector of Pécs what he thought about it, and he said he expected a slightly more heterogeneous curatorium. You cheated the universities. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-19-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to remind you that it is bold to give an opinion on a non-member of Parliament here in Parliament, because this may have consequences. I would like to draw your attention to this with all due respect. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor F Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget ahead is a special budget, and maybe every year we can say that a budget is always special, because we are planning for the future, which we do not know, but if we count well and count well, then we can pretty much shoot up what is expected next year. There are many conditions to this work. A good budget should be based, predictable, time-proof, and, professionally, any excuse, any attack and any problem should be made resistant as far as possible. Every year, it is said by the opposition that the budget is not good, the budget is collapsing, but so far in recent years the budget has brought its deficits, brought GDP growth, brought results that the experts of the Ministry of Finance had previously dreamed, planned and implemented over the years. I would like to congratulate Mr Secretary of State, Minister of Finance Mihály Varga, and the team that has been able to plan the future for years, establish it professionally, and bring a good budget, not only this year, but last year, even before last year, despite all malicious predictions, all gloating or disasterous opposition ideas. So this year's budget will stand up, and we can trust that the 2022 budget will be the same. After all, it meets the goals of economic growth in a year that is difficult with coronal virus infection, because the coronal virus crisis in the whole world, especially in the European Union, has caused not only a health disaster, but also an economic disaster. This shows how which country has been able to respond to the health challenge, which I think the Hungarian government has done well, since it has been able to bring together Europe's strongest health system with vaccination and vaccination. I see that you have also been very good at responding to the economic challenges, as you can see in the first quarter of GDP data that we are perhaps in the first five most economically developing countries, and that is a success, because we remember that in the 2008 economic crisis we were the last two together with Greece. This required that the Hungarian economy be strong, resilient and not vulnerable. The good news is that the Hungarian regions are also beginning to catch up with the EU average. This means that a few years ago, we were an army driver in almost all regions, perhaps the Budapest, Central Hungary and the North-West Transdanubian region reached the EU average. This can now be achieved by several regions in Hungary. But that's not what I want to talk about, because it's easy to talk about success, and unfortunately, I don't have the time to talk about success, and I'd like to talk about what task we're about. After all, Hungary still has a region to catch up on. If we do not continue the catching-up work that the government has already started with the program of the Hungarian village, with the construction of infrastructure, then these regions, which are not as advanced as the Western Transdanubian region or the central region in Hungary, cannot catch up at such a pace. I come from a region of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, also the eastern part of that region that is lagging behind the EU average. There is a lot of success stories, since there is no small establishment in the Hungarian village program where the nursery, kindergarten, health institution, road, sidewalk, community space would not have been renewed. Very good, but you can still do this. And the most important thing for this region is the development of infrastructure. Even if we separate the eastern part of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, this region can be divided into several parts, as the area of Lake Tisza can develop very well from tourism. Last year we handed over the Tiszafüred-Poroszló bike road, which made an explosive change in the area, as active tourism appeared in the area of Tiszafüred, Abadszalók, Tiszaderzs. This is a very good program, it must continue, either by developing ports or by developing beaches. But there is a part far away from the Tisza, a Tiszaörs, Tiszaigar, Tiszaderzs, which needs to be given another development program. And this region has a very negative part, perhaps the poorest district in Hungary, where settlements like Tiszaroff, Tiszagyenda, Tiszabura, Tiszabő are the poorest settlements in the country. There have also been major improvements: sports hall, job-creating investments. This must continue. And there is a part of this region that I think the development of road 4 will bring momentum, because if we pass the bypass section of Szolnok next year, then the four-track road will be within reach, and this can bring new momentum to Guns, Little Newcomers, Karcag, Turkeveve. But what I'm asking you is that we can not only develop road 4 but also the road to it, like a tour of Tourkeve-Kunchor, a Karcag bypass. [[20.40]] This would be a very important part of this region, and I would also ask the Secretary of State and the government that, if there is state investment, we should think about these areas, or that if businesses want to create investment, we should be able to give more state aid to those areas that are more behind, more support, more support. I think the direction is good; the direction is good, the pace is acceptable, but it can be accelerated; it can be accelerated, because we still have speed in the country. Thank you to the Secretary of State, thank you to the staff of the Ministry, and I wish that we can continue this work. That is all I wanted to say to the budget, but it is important to mention what Mr Lóránt Keresztes has to say. I am reminded of a saying attributed to Ronald Reagan, a dead American president: liberals know not little, but very much, but all wrong. The Member mentioned that there has been no rail development in recent years. I don't know whether he was in the country or was on the railroad, there was a railway redevelopment, because your ally, or I don't know how to say this connection, wanted to eliminate the Karcag-Tiszafüred railway line during the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány. This railway works, passenger transport runs on it, the Karcag railway station is renewed, with underpass and elevator XXI. 100th-century railway station, renewed in hempes, which is a railway station in the history of transport. You must have heard that the Budapest-Záhony railway line 100 in railway development, which also affects my constituency, has been developed at 160 km/h, and the railway vehicle production has also started, the Hungarian railway production produces InterCity wagons, and has concluded perhaps the largest business of the last four to five decades, in which we are transporting railway vehicles to Egypt. To say that the Hungarian railway has not developed, and that this government has not developed the Hungarian railway, it is highly indiscretionable. In relation to universities, ask your new partners what is the abbreviation for PPP, when Hungarian universities were indebted, they created programmes to indebte Hungarian universities; they did not help them, not for state aid, but for investments with which universities were indebted for decades, and the Hungarian government, the current government, had to pay them, to bring out the Hungarian universities that were indebted from them. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, a two-minute speech is possible. I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-05-19-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I mean, I really didn't want to speak, but I did. Congressman F Kovács, I suggest you listen to what I have to say. I said that you have turned almost nothing on the railway sidelines in the last 11 years, factually so. When you criticize the policy of the former Balliberal governments, the decisions of the railway sidelines that were closed, the traffic stopped there, I agree with that, and we were most strongly protesting at the time, obviously on a professional basis, against the shameful rail-destructive policy. At the same time, this is exactly what you did last year when you stopped or almost completely stopped rail passenger traffic on 34 railway lines, citing outrageous lies. You have practically sentenced 34 railway sidelines to death in this way, and have done nothing to create a transport policy, a transport system that would make these rails viable and operational after proper infrastructure development, with the loading functions, the appropriate timetables and the proper infrastructure development. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] sidelines. Therefore, I can tell Fidesz that the rail-destructive policy they represented has a shockingly negative impact on rural areas. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-19-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to call for the last of those registered in writing, Mr Csaba Nagy, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, T/16118 on Hungary's central budget for 2022. This has already been said several times today. If you will allow me, I would rather deal with rural programme elements, budget elements and items in relation to the HUF 7300 billion of the economic re-launch action plan, because I think it is very important that there are items in the budget for development and investment, for employment support programmes. The economic re-launch action plan consists of three items that are worth talking about: one is tax cuts, this is HUF 423 billion; the other is EU funds; this means more than HUF 3000 billion; and there are national funds, which represent approximately HUF 3900 billion. If you'll allow me, I'd like to highlight one or two of these. With regard to EU funds, between the operational programme for territorial and urban development and the programme elements of the operational programme for the next seven-year cycle, HUF 398 billion can be found in 2022, and the rural development programme will also find HUF 230 billion for development. I am the representative of the Parliament of West Baranya, and I always like it if we can give concrete examples of what are the tangible facts that we can experience between the budget lines. For example, Szigetvár, the largest city in my constituency, was able to bring 212 applications in the rural development programme for EU funds and Hungarian funds worth more than 2.1 billion forints; Szentlőrinc 141 such applications were worth almost HUF 8 billion; Sellie, one of our smallest cities, was able to bring around 100 applications worth HUF 924 million. I also looked at the villages, Királyeghegyháza probably brought most of the applications, where 56 applications were awarded for HUF 133 million; Baksa brought 54 applications for HUF 923 million; Csányoszró 51 for HUF 165 million and Mozsgó 50 for HUF 837 million. Among the Hungarian sources of the economic rebooting action plan, we find the program of the modern cities, which covers some HUF 50 billion, and HUF 93 billion of the Hungarian village programme. This amount does not include this year's part of the amount called the village road base for 2022. If you'll allow me, I'd like to talk about the program of the Hungarian village. The first such large item, which was typically used in the Hungarian village programme in 2021, and will continue to work next year, is the "Falusi CSOK" program. Thanks to the changes made at the beginning of the year, 2678 settlements belong here, where there can be support for the purchase of farms and apartments, for the modernisation, expansion and modernisation of apartments and existing dwellings; this program was added to the tax refund support compared to the initial variations, with 20,000 applications worth about HUF 100 billion. I think it is very important to say this because the possibility of rural development has been mentioned several times, and I think that these are the facts that prove that the government does stand up for the people in the countryside. It is typical that several decades of trends have been broken, as villages have increased their population retention power, and we have 900 settlements in which we can talk about an increase in population numbers. CSOK offers a possibility for a child to purchase HUF 600 000, for two children HUF 2.6 million, for three children HUF 10 million, and 50 percent of these support amounts can be used for existing housing. [[20.50]] The village road base program is important, since road renovations have also been mentioned. The country has many decades of debt here. From 2019 to 2021, nearly 3,000 kilometers of back roads are renewed. In 2019 we were able to spend HUF 52.5 billion and HUF 75 billion in 2020, and this year it could be HUF 9 billion. In addition, a large road repair programme has been launched. The government has provided road operators with the opportunity to buy equipment to make large road surface repairs. Last year, HUF 7.8 billion could be spent on this, and this year it was HUF 12 billion. In 2022, the development of around 1,500 kilometres of roads can begin, based on the support of our budget. It is also worth talking a little bit about the application system. With regard to our villages, we have created quality of life and small-scale rural development within the framework of a tender. Overall, the winners could call 130 billion forints. I looked at what was in Baranya, how much our villages won: 3 849 068 265 HUF. If you'll excuse me, I really don't want to bore you, but I've contacted the smallest settlements in my constituency that have won at least one tender in the Hungarian village programme, but there are several settlements that have more. He won Croatia, Kemse, Marócsa, Sea, Hustót, Szörény, Almáskeresztúr, Markók, Okorvölgy, Kisbesterce, Drávapiski, Varga, Magyarlukafa, Dinnyeberki. In the past 2815 settlements were able to win, 98 percent of the settlements, in 2019 there were 16 target areas, in 2020 22 and in 2019-20-21 we were able to provide HUF 600 billion of Hungarian resources on the rural development site through the. It is very important that the aid is 100% and they receive an advance within a very short period of time from the municipalities. I think our settlements have been dreaming about this for the past few years. Last year, the CSOs' grant application system was added and 1580 CSOs were able to win. To date, 14 calls for proposals have been published in 2021. I wouldn't talk about that right now, because I don't want to waste any more of your time. I would just like to add two more additions to the program of the Hungarian village, which I think is very important. The fourth pillar has been launched, and this is the possible support of the village convenience stores. This is a HUF 48 billion budget. Nearly 2400 settlements are involved in this, and a store can receive up to HUF 60 million in support. This is a complex support that, from the renovation of the building, will help to develop a shop in places where it is now and to open a shop in a settlement where it has not been or has been closed before. The Hungarian resources of the Hungarian village program are now complemented by EU funds through the support of the small settlement, small business programme. I would like to ask you, fellow Members, that the Government of Hungary T/16118. This bill, which is the title of the central budget of Hungary in 2022, contains as its main element the economic re-launch action plan, is supported by their vote in order to allow life to restart beyond the start-up of the economy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-19-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I am now speaking to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-19-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Not to waste your time, allow me to respond in a few points to the points that have not been raised or to which no response has yet been received from government benches or government representatives. Let me start by saying that next year's budget is not called for nothing as a budget for relaunching the economy, as has been said many times. And we call this draft a re-launch budget not only because we devote very significant resources to investment, to increasing consumption, but also because we hope that, with the progress of vaccinations, we will be able to leave the virus behind. Therefore, as a first point, let me draw attention to the importance of vaccinations as a condition for re-launching the economy. At the same time, I would like to refute the statements made by Congressman Tamás Harangozó, who said that most people died here because of Covid. In a Friday morning interview, the Prime Minister said that it is not clear that the people presented as Covid's death victim died in Covid or Covid. I therefore draw attention to Eurostat's analysis of the excess mortality compared to normal mortality. This is a better indication of the actual relationship of the reported data with the virus situation. In this sad statistics, we see a 23 percent surplus of Eurostat, the EU average is 11.4 percent, and the Hungarian figure is 9.2 percent. I heard from Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth that these statistics are the most widely used in the profession. I repeat, we feel sad for each life lost, Minister Mihály Varga in his exposé said this specifically. Therefore, since I believe that the importance of human life is not a question, it is essential that we all be pro-vaccination and encourage people to be vaccinated as much as possible. Thank God, we are now in a position where there is no budgetary barrier to ensuring vaccinations; there is no shortage of vaccine; I hope that as many people will apply. I repeat, therefore, it is very important to restart the economy, to achieve economic growth, in addition to health aspects, to accept vaccinations as fully as possible, and to extend vaccination. As a second point, I must say that we call next year's budget proposal as a budget for re-launching the economy because the effects of the virus are with us in an economic sense. I repeat, this crisis is more serious than the crisis of 2008-9, and we will inevitably compare the measures implemented by the government at the time in 2008-9 and the measures proposed by the government, for example, in the draft budget law 2022. Allow me to start with pensions. It is strange for me, however, that notary Gergely Arató says that the pensioners are important to us, and Mr Lajos Korózs says that the social network must be woven in distress. We remember that, as a government reaction to the economic crisis of 2008-9, a month's pension was taken away. What I know is that the government at the time was on a forced course, because in previous years the great deficit, rising public debt, weak employment, and extremely low growth created an emergency situation where no one bought the Hungarian sovereign debt, we were in need of external assistance, and we did receive recommendations, and beyond that, the then government decided to reduce pensions and wages as its own proposal. So, in this respect, it is quite specific that pensions have been attacked by more people. Let me say that, factually, the real value of pensions has increased by around 10%. Let me say that if the planned inflation is exceeded by pensioner inflation, not average inflation, but pensioner inflation, an additional increase should be made in November on the basis of legislation. On the question that Mr Csaba Gyüre asked why the government did not immediately return the 13th month pension, I would remind everyone that we were in an overdeficit procedure, Hungary was the only Member State to have been in an overdeficit procedure for nine years after accession in 2004. [[21.00]] We all know what kind of financing situation it was. In 2010, it was a serious commitment that the real value of pensions would be preserved by the government. As financial stability has been achieved, and as economic growth has started, we can remember the pension premium beyond the insurance of the real value of pensions, and there have been various one-off expenditures provided, Elizabeth's voucher and the return certificate from 2016. To say that in 2019 the pension premium meant HUF 50 billion in expenditure, the Elisabeth voucher meant HUF 23 billion in expenditure and income for pensioners. Let me also say, however, that in terms of pensions, we can remember the increase in wages in the years before 2010, and we know that the rent is falling. I accept that there is room for expansion in the increase of pensions, which is why the 13th month pension will be returned in several years, but we also need to see that, in addition to the increase in pensions, for example, everyone has to spend less on the rent now than they had to before 2010. Higher education. Mr Lóránt Kereszt has said that there is a brutal austerity in higher education institutions. Congressman Vinnai gave me a professional answer. Let me add numbers and draw the head of the group's attention to the fact that greater freedom of model-shifting institutions also means that the revenue of these institutions is no longer included in the central budget proposal. This means HUF 370 billion in revenue. The institutions are free to farm with this, and they are no longer in the form of budgetary bodies. What is included in the budget proposal is also included in the draft budget law 2022, which is the amount of state aid granted to institutions, higher education institutions. And this is growing. Congressman asked if the government would secure the wage increase. Yes, next year's draft includes HUF 26.9 billion. The congressman asked what would happen to the investments. He mentioned the HUF 1200 billion item. On the one hand, let me say that investments take several years, so I think it would be a mistake to earn HUF 1200 billion in a year's budget. But I can tell you that in next year's draft, we created an investment fund of HUF 550 billion, including HUF 90 billion in investment expenditure for higher education institutions. Overall, I can confirm that funding for higher education institutions is also increasing in 2022 compared to 2021. Mr. Fraction Manager, and several people have mentioned the territorial break-up. Several Members, Mr Sándor F Kovács, gave an accurate answer. Just yesterday, the news was released, based on Eurostat's calculation, showing the economic development of all EU NUTS level 2 regions. These are the big regions. There are seven such regions in Hungary. I would add that in the new EU planning period, it will be eight, since Pest County is a separate one, and therefore we will be able to develop Pest County with more tools, not to draw back opportunities from the extremely advanced EU average in Budapest at 151 percent. The point is, therefore, that all seven regions have made progress in this ranking. No region has slipped back compared to 2010, again, Eurostat numbers. There are regions that have moved forward 20 places, there are also 23 who have made progress. There are also regions that have made less progress. We therefore have a task in this regard. I fully agree with Mr Sándor F Kovács on this, too. But as far as regions and development are concerned, let me say that the state has at least two means of achieving the development of the regions in the current budgets. On the one hand, by financing public investment, when you are attacking public investment, you should know that all investments are physically carried out in an area and beyond with the support of private investment. Many criticisms were expressed about the support that large companies receive. The congressman also mentioned Pécs several times. Let me connect the city of Pécs, regional development and investment. One month's news is that with the support of HUF 4.6 billion from the state, a Japanese investor invests HUF 15.2 billion. As a member of the Council, Mr Pécs, with connections in Pécs, knows that not only a Japanese investment is being made, but also a recent investment in South Korea or Germany, and these investments pay the business tax to the city of Pécs. The Member knows that business tax revenue in the city of Pécs has increased significantly, so I think that both public investment and private investment supported by the state will take place in the settlement where these investments will later contribute to business tax revenue. Of course, I agree with you and others that, in addition to supporting foreign investment, we must also help domestic companies. Well, that's what the support programme at the Ministry of Finance is all about: we support companies with domestic backgrounds that cannot apply for EU funds or other instruments in some way, which are not available to them. Finally, in territorial development, I thank you for the mention of rural development programmes. There is a source that really helps to catch up with the Hungarian countryside, in addition to the help of the already mentioned Hungarian village, or the programme "Modern Cities" as regional centres, that is the rural development programme. Here, the domestic financing ratio mentioned by Mr Font Sándor goes from 17 to 18 percent to 80 percent, which means that in the next development cycle of 21 to 27 Hungarian funding, co-financing will average HUF 470 to 475 billion compared to HUF 37 billion in the previous period. This is annual average funding. They see only part of this budget in 22 because it starts out in a way, but it is a serious commitment on the part of the government to take advantage of the possibility of adding maximum domestic funding to EU funds. So if anything, this should result in catching up in the countryside, increasing the opportunities of people living in the countryside. Finally, let me finish by saying that neither I nor the speakers have heard anything, or I have said it myself, which is all about the fact that there is only a success campaign here. We have tried to base our economic policy steps on numbers, because I think that every proposal can only be credible if we report on the results of our economic policy so far, we report on the tasks we see and the means we have chosen to achieve these tasks. I agree that we still have a number of tasks ahead of us, but I think that if this economic policy, which is an economic policy of value, focuses on jobs and families, has, in recent times, been able to achieve a substantial catch-up from the point of view of Hungary again, the expansion of the Hungarian economy has been three times as large in the last ten years as the EU average, the number of people employed has also increased, and wages have also increased, then we can only hope that this economic policy will be successful, and we hope that the unexpected circumstances that have not crossed our calculations as we have seen with the outbreak of the coronal virus last year. In the spirit of all this, I wish to the honourable Parliament, the Members, an effective budget discussion tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-19-136	Thank you very much. However, since there are still timeframes, I have to ask myself that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is adjourned. It will continue at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP, applied for his speech. Here you go, Congressman. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor. [[21.10]]
u2021-05-19-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speeches after the agenda, I am typically talking about problems affecting Pécs and Baranya, and in this context I will be talking about issues of national importance of national importance. We've been arguing a lot about it over the last few years, and we've said a lot of times that the government gave Paks II, based on lies, without a tender. It's a gigantic project for the Russians, and you can see that this project is bleeding from a thousand wounds. It was not so long ago a shocking development that the Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office resigned unexpectedly and without justification, and shortly later we learned the minutes of the online public hearing launched by the National Atomic Energy Office, which may have revealed that the authority has revealed about five hundred minor problems and shortcomings in the documentation submitted so far. It is quite shocking that I myself have asked a number of questions about the case, and neither the Atomic Energy Agency nor the Paks II. Zrt., neither the government has been able to answer very, very many important questions. One of these issues is the question of decommissioning nuclear power plants and the final disposal of high-activity radioactive waste, and there are issues related to the choice of location, financing and technology in the air. We know that our region, Pécs and Baranya are involved in this case, because it has already been decided against government claims that Hungary should build a so-called underground geological reservoir and research is conducted on one site: the Bodai Claystone Formation. The research has been going on for many years, despite the fact that the population of the region has made it very clear that it will not tolerate such an investment, such an object 68 kilometres from the borders of Pécs. This fact, by the way, was also acknowledged by the recently resigned Director General of OAH and stated at the then public hearing that this problem would be transmitted to the government. So it is clear from the government that this project will not be stopped, despite the fact that it is well-known to them that this region does not accept this object, it does not accept this investment. Nowhere in the world is there any example of such a metropolitan agglomeration as they want to create a nuclear cemetery. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally promised Pécs in 2015 that if the population of the region did not contribute to this, there would be no nuclear cemetery there. As compared to this, in 2015, Prime Minister did not ask the people in Pécs and its region what they thought about this investment, nor did they even change the nuclear law in such a way that the city of Pécs or the city of Szentlőrinc or the many settlements or villages concerned have no right to comment on this issue. I can also say that, and I stress the irresponsible nature of the government, that since Prime Minister made that promise, between HUF 8 billion and HUF 10 billion have been spent on research. So it is clear from this that the government is marching forward in a dead end, refusing to face what the experts have also confirmed, that a political decision must be made to search for a possible nuclear cemetery in Hungary in alternative locations. It is also a shocking process, the topicality of the past period, the last week, that the government has tabled an amendment to the law by which they fundamentally rewrite the operation of the National Atomic Energy Office, and they intend to continue this legislation in such a way that the Prime Minister can appoint for nine years the head of the authority, the body with supervisory and authority powers over nuclear power, in such a way that, according to the bill, even professional higher education is not required. What we see is that the government now uses a kind of force policy in the field of nuclear power, and here, too, they want to cement a political candidate into this position for nine years. We know exactly what this can do to our region, as the authorisation procedures for the nuclear cemetery issue are all in the hands of a National Atomic Energy Agency whose leader is now planned to be cemented by this current government for nine years. We know that some plans are still being cherished to launch a uranium mining plan for the populated areas of Pécs, so a so-called mining site is still under construction in the west of Pécs. It is also planned that some investors would like to conduct uranium mining activities under the inhabited area of Pécs, despite the fact that everyone knows exactly what brutal environmental destruction this entails. I can say what we have said many times in recent years, that nuclear power is not cheap, it is not green and it is not safe, and we will stop the Paks II project in the event of a change of government, and I can also guarantee that there will be no nuclear cemetery at 810 kilometers from the western borders of Pécs. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-19-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Róbert Dudás has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, This week there is a debate on the national budget for 2022, which the Members of this House have started today, and they are presenting to Parliament the amendments which they see as a problem of a national nature in relation to their own district, which must in any event be included in the national budget, thereby ensuring its implementation. As regards my district, as I am a member of the district, I have tabled 29 such amendments, altogether 67 of them being submitted without the need for completeness, as much more problems could be pointed out, confident that the most pressing problems will be solved, and that they will be integrated into the central budget next year. Each settlement is different, but one thing is certain about each settlement in Mátra and the settlement in Mátra: the problem of the road network and the development of the road network. This affects Gyöngyös in terms of the bypass, which has been promised for years, but that should not be promised, it must be incorporated into the central budget, because then it will certainly be achieved. This affects the state of the roads connecting the road network of the settlements in the northern part of Mátra, and let me give you a few examples here as well. For example, Mátraballa's road network can be said today that it is not bad, but untraceable, and that is why houses are cracking, because roaring trucks are part of our everyday lives. The houses are cracking, and the traffic has become life-threatening and dangerous, whether by car or by foot or by bicycle, as the countryside Hungary is not famous for it and it is not the main feature of the sidewalk on each side of the road. This is where people travel on the side of the road, because they can't travel anywhere else, and this makes traffic dangerous and life-threatening in many places. But I could mention the road between Bold and Hevesaran, of which parts we can safely say that it still contains traces of asphalt. And why is it important to develop the road network? Because this is the basis for everything: if there is a way, then companies who want to invest can approach it; if there is no proper infrastructure for the settlement, then these companies will avoid it, so it is essential for job creation. But it is also essential in settlements where job creation is not the top priority, but tourism. There are many settlements in Mátra, we have many such beautiful settlements, as Mátra is Hungary's second largest tourist destination, which lives on tourism, thus sustains itself by many entrepreneurs, and there are many settlements that specialize in medicinal tourism. This is extremely important for all of you, because the most important thing is that tourists and those involved in medicinal tourism show up as many as possible and leave satisfiedly, because then they will return. Let us not forget that everyday life of those living there is also bitterly affected by the current situation, even though they deserve it just as much as the citizens of the city and the capital deserve to have adequate infrastructure for them. Well, in order to improve these, I have tabled my amendments, and I trust that the majority of Parliament's pro-government will also support these proposals. I actually live there, these questions, these problems are part of my daily life, just as they are part of the daily lives of the people there, make their lives miserable. We now have the opportunity to improve this, so let's build it, please, improve it, improve their living conditions, because they deserve it. [[21.20]] I do this by asking László Horváth, the Member of Parliament of the region, to submit the amendments, even if he does not live in the region to support them. The amendment was also sent to him through the ParLex system, join him, he is a representative of the district, and I am a member of the district, so let's improve the living conditions there together. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-19-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Adam Steinmetz, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman, notary.
u2021-05-19-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In recent weeks, many of our compatriots have asked me on what basis the Fidesz government has made a distinction between Hungarians and Hungarians without a certificate of immunity, on what basis and under what right it discriminates against the majority of society, more than half of our society. The short answer is that you have the right and opportunity to do so, because the Fidesz government has two-thirds authority of the Parliament, as it may, in view of the emergency caused by the coronal virus epidemic, override government decrees. I ask everyone in this House, too, to show respect for the law, even if some of these government regulations are completely against common sense and cannot really be taken into account in the light of the epidemic. But to be specific, here's 214/2021. a government decree that only a fisherman who holds a valid immunity certificate is entitled to night fishing. And what does that mean? This means that one minute before midnight, anyone can fish, but as soon as the clock strikes midnight, the fishing activity is dangerous, and the only person left on the lake is the one with the immunity certificate. If you know the fishing society and I indicate that this is a large number of societies, there are over 700,000 registered fishermen in the country, and more than 400 thousand of them fish regularly on the shores of Lake Balaton, otherwise I speak up for them too, so whoever knows the fishermen knows how to fish, you know that these people go fishing to relax, to be on the soft lap of nature, to enjoy the silence, by no means imagine a group activity. And they're not one-and-a-half, they're five-ten meters away from each other. Of course, not primarily because of the risk of the coronal virus, but simply because not everyone can throw straight, and failed throwing can also cause complications and conflicts. So I don't think there's a particular danger either during the day or after midnight. But then why is this so, and it is legitimate for fishermen to ask why this whole restriction is, why it is discriminatory and, above all, why it goes against common sense. So my question concerns the reasons for this decision. I would very much like to have an answer to this question, but I must be honest if I do not get an answer, it does not bother me in particular if the government considers this regulation and withdraws at least the pass on the restriction of night fishing. Finally, I can tell you to win common sense, bend the stick after midnight and for everyone. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-19-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Tibor Nunkovics has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-19-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I thought, after the agenda, that I would replace what I had missed in the debate, obviously it was a time-frame debate, and I wanted to talk as much about my constituency as possible, and to tell you what amendments I tabled or tabled through the ParLex system. I would like to say in the prerogative that there is almost no settlement in my constituency that is not affected by an amendment, and, unfortunately, in most cases, the subject of this is the renewal of roads. Komárom-Esztergom County has the second longest road network in the country, and otherwise it receives almost the least amount of resources to renovate them. Unfortunately, this has led to the fact that today there are settlements in my constituency that are almost completely isolated, thanks to bad road conditions. Now let's just think that, by the way, the governing party that says that they are on the side of the countryside and that they want to develop the countryside is simply turning very, very minimal resources into these roads. Just to give you an example: the village of Mariahalom in my constituency, which can be approached from three roads. Officially, it's only about two, one of which is an old road, but all three roads have conditions that even on foot, I say it's risky to approach the settlement with a little exaggeration. In addition, this is exactly where bus services have been taken out since the last change of schedule. But I could also say other such settlements, Epöl or Dág, Úny, there are many such settlements in my region, unfortunately, which are increasingly inaccessible. And the main problem with this is that if we want to preserve the countryside and keep the villages and small settlements in the form they are, at least in the way they are, we must be able to keep young people in the settlement, the workers must be able to keep them in the settlements, and a good way is essential for this. This, I think, is signed by all of us; it is also a well-functioning system in other countries, that small settlements must also be connected to the new road networks at some level, or if we do not build new ones, then the old ones must be kept in such a state that the bus is able to travel on them, the passenger car or perhaps the van, which is transporting goods to this small settlement. If these roads are not okay, then the small settlements will unfortunately be empty. Another category of my amendments are the streets, so the streets in the settlements, for example, in Esztergom-Kertváros, which do not have a solid road cover. In this example, in Esztergom-Kertváros, if someone goes, say, to the end of Tátorkői or Temesvári Street, or even to the border street, he will experience, especially in a rainy weather, that it is not possible to actually travel in these streets, not by car, and on foot, by bicycle, is actually dangerous, and you have to watch where you are going, because you can easily sprain your feet. The same is the case with regard to channels. So it's the 21st. In the century, there are also settlements in my constituency in Hungary where there is no complete network of sewers. I think this is quite simply unacceptable. Obviously, we cannot expect the leaders of small settlements to submit a tender, since they could not produce the self-esteem to do so, it would consume such enormous money. That is why I have proposals for amendments that would specifically remedy this. A very specific example, the flood protection barrier in Esztergom, which has been promised to the Esztergoms for a very, very long time, and it is interesting that on the other side of the Danube, in Párkány, this has already been achieved many, many decades ago, and when a possible Danube price comes, we on the Esztergom side see that they are calmly ice-creaming or eating the scone while we are packing the bags. Last time was in 2013, but who knows what year he'll be next. I think that there is also a need to find resources for this, and I have found a source for this with my amendment, and I hope that it will be adopted. Finally, allow me to say that I have asked the pro-government representative of the region, Pál Völner, to join nine of my amendments, and I think that all of them would help to improve the region, to improve its development, and I very much hope that he will support these amendments by signing them. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-19-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you all for your day's work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good night, a happy return home and a smiley reunion tomorrow morning.
